in the sixth round, frazier stunned ali with a left hook which nearly put him  on the mat.
frazier said,  "they lied".
i don't know if sports will ever find a more fitting and intense rivlary like they had.
wow david awesome write up!!!
- lainy's musings 3rd blogoversary: the gravatar co... - will blog for food movie!
- ► march (9) - wwe hall of fame class of 2011 - tag from caroline!
the heat had begun to take it's toll on the  fighters, but it appeared that frazier would be able to win by the 10th round.
he lost to ali and foreman twice which were the only losses of his career.
thanks for the support cindy!
i thought i contacted him before, but maybe not.
the  fight was a huge financial success with many countries being able to see it  with an hbo antenna.
share to twitter share to facebook reactions: newer post older post home 13 comments: lester's legends says: october 1, 2008
the "thrilla in manila" was on as ali defended his wba/wbc heavyweight titles.
it was later revealed that frazier had a cataract in his left eye which meant by the time ali closed his right eye with punches, he was virtually fighting blind.
i never saw the result of that, and had no idea that you tried to get it yourself.
ali later said that this was as close as he came to dying after the  sweltering heat got to him.
i'm factoring in championships, playoff appearances, amount of winning and lo... - argue with everyone forums
in the sixth round, frazier stunned ali with a left hook which nearly put him on the mat.
frazier refused to give up, and he came out for the 14th round.
ali continued the assault, and frazier threw very few punches as ali continued  on.
are you funkin' serious?
"joe frazier, i'll tell the world right now, brings out the best in me.
ali had closed the right eye of frazier,  and he continued to pound away at him.
ali continued the momentum as  frazier had no answer for the right-hand punches to the face.
he  later appeared in the 1976 box office hitrocky which saw the title  match take place in his town of philadelphia.
- 3rd blogoversary award from lainy & windy!
- wrestlemania axxess photo shots: maryse!
he still wears his hat with the feather in the side of it too ;0 rideordie says: october 2, 2008 8:04 am reply ali has nothin on smokin joe.
combine that with the competition of mma and ufc, and it's really an uphill battle for the sport.
kayce's my life and my journey online kayce's online journey kayce's table of five kittykat's amazingly me koen nick denissen's blog lady java's being woman lady java's blogger cats lady java's creations lady java's life's pages lady java's lounge lady java's shopping galore lainy's musings lainy's our journey to forever lainy's the certified fashionable chic lester's legends levian lily arbee's therapy home lulu's bitz 'n pieces lulu's daily snippets lulu's mouth's delight lyla(welcome to my diary) malachy murray(captain new york) mariuca's makan-makan @mariuca mariuca's meow diaries mariuca's perfume gallery mariuca's wishing on a falling star maxi's health n home pages maxi's ovah coffee maxi's the pastime shelf mo morrissey monica's turn-u-off nutball gazette phebie's love haven randy inman's football dogz rose's etcetera etcetera rose's nostalgic marveling rose's obstacles and glories rose's sailor's adventures & opinions rose's spice up your life rose's underway!
my husband used to work out @ smokin joe's gym when we still lived in philly!!
- top 10 sports teams of the 1960s!
in the 11th round, ali made a startling comeback as he badly damaged the face  of frazier with a flurry of punches.
at one point in  the 13th round, ali knocked frazier's mouthpiece into the front row of fans.
- ► february (8) - happy belated birthday frank!
posted  in:ali, boxing, frazier, joe frazier, muhammad ali, phillippines, rivalries,  thrilla in manila email
it was on this day in manila, phillippines that boxers muhammad ali and joe frazier took to the ring in a third, climaxing event in what many call the greatest fight of all-time.
- a frank angle movie!
- wrestlemania axxess: april 3, 2011 - cnn studios atlanta pics!
i'm gonna tell ya, that's one helluva man, and god bless him," said ali after the fight.
- bluedreamer wins fcsb for may 2011!
- fsd history flashback: october 23 - fsd history flashback: october 22 -
a boxer friend of ours had it up for charity.
basketball - blugging empire starring maxi velasco - update from basic bloganomics - mariuca wins fcsb for february 2011!
- wrestlemania axxess: april 2, 2011 - wrestlemania 27
- wrestlemania axxess photo shots: alicia fox!
rolland lawrence's 1977 season - fsd history flashback: october 21, 1989 - fsd history flashback: october 21 - fsd history flashback: october 20 - windy city shootout - bcs busters thru week eight - week eight fantasy college football top performers... - fsd history flashback: october 18 - fsd history flashback: october 17 - the sportingblog shuffle - some funkin' stuff
ali won the fight, and immediately fainted in his corner.
ck0712 says: october 1, 2008 8:22 pm reply i just emailed the link!!
frazier was able to take advantage, and used power punches to the body of ali.
he came back for a rematch against larry holmes in  a loss in 1980, and retired for good after a loss to trevor berbick in 1981.
i was but a few days old when the thrilla in manilla went down.
3rd, joe is by far on the most awesomest ppl.
ali is widely  considered by many to not only be the best boxer ever, but athlete, too.
when the seventh round came, it was reported that ali whispered in frazier's ear, "they said you were washed up."
i'm going to see about contacting fanofreds about this.
share to twitter share to facebook reactions:
it was later revealed that frazier had a  cataract in his left eye which meant by the time ali closed his right eye with  punches, he was virtually fighting blind.
ali used his quickness and nailed frazier with a flurry of punches.
hello, i'm david funk.
this was a recipe that sparked what many say is the most heated rivalry in the history of sports.
ali's energy was spent, but futch finally decided to stop the fight after the 14th round.
cairo, egypt was considered a location for the fight according to an issue ofring magazine.
- wrestlemania axxess photo shots: tamina!
it was on this day in manila, phillippines that boxers  muhammad ali and joe frazier took to the ring in a third, climaxing event in  what many call the greatest fight of all-time.
yes, i do remember that yb post about frazier and his fight robe.
his kids went to my high school (way before me) & his wife still lives in the burbs of philly (where i grew up).
on j... check these out top web hosting ryan kavanaugh relativity related websites loading... all funked up loading... a frank angle a league of her own ally's i'm walking on sunshine ally's in the eyes of the beholder amiable amy amiable amy's business matters amiable amy's beyond photography analou's me and my dog bones
by the middle rounds, ali had appeared to be tired.
cairo, egypt was considered a location for the fight  according to an issue ofring magazine.
when the seventh round came, it was reported that ali whispered in  frazier's ear, "they said you were washed up."
madman- agreed about boxing never being the same.
- ► july (1) - daily income career network payment proof - ► june (6) - is daily income career network real?
frazier went on to face foreman, and lost which prompted his retirement.
sorry to hear that about marvis' wife.
boxing has seen too much negative publicity that it's going to take alot for it come back strong.
ha no thank you david!
frazier is a legend for sure.
basic bloganomics imagine the blog of possibilities - home - find me - twitter - facebook - all funked up - downloads - parent category - child category 1 - sub child category 1 - sub child category 2 - sub child category 3 - child category 2 - child category 3 - child category 4 - featured - health - uncategorized 10/01/2008 10:52:00 am david funk 13 fsd history flashback: october 1 posted in:ali, boxing, frazier, joe frazier, muhammad ali, phillippines, rivalries, thrilla in manila
5000.00 it went for......we tried but even i had to say no to 5000.00 lol!
- wrestlemania axxess photo shots: rosa mendes!
- wrestlemania xxvii pics!
this fight was ranked no. 5 by espn's sports century panel of experts in the greatest games/moments in the 20th century.
that thing we just talked about?
thanks again for the walk down memory lane!!
sure he beat him but joe is a walking legend here.
- bill v and caroline may ling win fcsb for april 20... - ► april (15) - wwe raw pics 4/25/11; meeting the miz!
do u remember over in the junkyard when the robe smokin joe wore for this fight was up for auction?
ali later said that this was as close as he came to dying after the sweltering heat got to him.
wow i have to show this to him.
in the opening round of the fight, ali wanted to take advantage of frazier, who was known for starting out slow in fights.
on october 1, 1975, one of the greatest rivalries in sports history came to a head.
ali had closed the right eye of frazier, and he continued to pound away at him.
boxing has truly lost its luster.
any use of those images or content without express written permission from me, david funk, is strictly prohibited.
this fight was ranked no. 5 by espn's  sports century panel of experts in the greatest games/moments in the 20th  century.
i wasn't born until november 1974 myself, so we're the same age.
he finished with a record of  32-4-1 with 27 wins by knockout.
photo courtesy of vintage-poster-movie.com thanks for viewing, and i hope you enjoyed today's fsd history flashback!
frazier, who was defenseless, took a  major beating in which he almost went down to the canvas as the bell rang to  end the round.
he finished with a record of 32-4-1 with 27 wins by knockout.
i love i mean love smokin joe.......
- wrestlemania axxess photo shots: gail kim!
- wrestlemania axxess photo shots: melina!
he  lost the title to leon spinks in 1978, but regained it in the rematch which  later led him to retirement.
nice post man appreciated david funk says: october 2, 2008 9:49 am reply
he lost to ali and foreman twice which were  the only losses of his career.
- wrestlemania axxess photo shots: kaitlyn! - wwe smackdown pics 4/26/11 tapings!
ali used his quickness and nailed frazier with a flurry of  punches.
shift colors sera melinda sharon chong shemah's reel madhouse shemah's my sweet escape sheryl's the twitterer shy's a journey for life shy's a woman's world shy's chitchat about entertainment shy's diaper days shy's entertainment blog shydub's j&j's milestone and adventure shydub's life mix shydub's simple happy life shydub's worth's road julie(soadrules) stacey avenue star's a maiden's testimony the sultan of squat susan shan tripzibit's unsolved mysteries of the world windy copyright images and content produced from places i've been are protected under copyright.
he later appeared in the 1976 box office hitrocky which saw the title match take place in his town of philadelphia.
great story about you and your hubby in philly.
frazier refused to give up, and he  came out for the 14th round.
frazier, who was defenseless, took a major beating in which he almost went down to the canvas as the bell rang to end the round.
resources caroline may ling's my stories chris' the mommy journey chuchie's hideaway chuchie's kitchen adventure chuchie's scrap collection chuchie's three chies' trends chuchie's whereabouts clarissa's kizuna czaroma's a woman remembers dhemz' my life's perception & inspiration dhemz' savour the flavour dhemz' the dias family spot dhemz' shopping blog dj tammy's anything under the sun dj tammy's forgetful princess dorothy l's women's self-esteem edbreadsaidhockey eden's moments to remember elai's haven fanofreds fe's journey of life fe's movies and celebrity news fe's traveler's notebook fishhawk's asthecrackerheadcrumbles fishhawk droppings fitness diva foong's my very first blog gagay's pinoy medical doctor gagay's the latest buzz gagay's i'm..but gagay gagay's fishy talks georyl genny's life is a battle genny's sanctuary of my emotions genny's woman in me grace's eat, pray, love, and blog grace onorato's
ali won the fight, and immediately fainted in his  corner.
even though frazier was hurt by this, he kept coming at ali to where  it frustrated him.
even though frazier was hurt by this, he kept coming at ali to where it frustrated him.
ali is widely considered by many to not only be the best boxer ever, but athlete, too.
well, the thrilla in manila was by far the best moment for october 1.
ali continued the assault, and frazier threw very few punches as ali continued on.
we'll see what we can do about that.
axxess: april 1, 2011 - mariuca wins fcsb again for march 2011!
this was a recipe that sparked what many say is the most  heated rivalry in the history of sports.
for you..... - fsd history flashback: the great one's record on ... - fsd history flashback: october 15, 1988 kirk gibs... - fsd history flashback: october 15, 1988 in colleg... - college football matchups i'd like to see - fsd history flashback: october 14 - fsd history flashback: october 13 - week six fantasy college football top performers - fsd history flashback: october 12 - red river rivalry & random college football though... - fsd history flashback: october 11 - fsd history flashback: october 10 - red river rivalry history - fsd history flashback: october 9 - what if?
- wrestlemania axxess photo shots: r-truth!
10/01/2008 10:52:00 am david funk 13 fsd history flashback: october 1 on october 1, 1975, one of the greatest rivalries in sports  history came to a head.
- ▼ 2008 (185) - ▼ october (51) - fsd funny fantasy football team names - papa bear george halas documentary - fsd history flashback: october 30, 1974 - what if?
it's always good to meet someone as legendary as joe frazier, isn't it?
i met joe outside of his dojo in broad st. and thanked him for about 30 minutes.
12:41 pm reply nice one.
thanks for sending the link to him!
- collectible supplies - wwe stars who played ncaa
if  there was ever two contrasts in styles among two opponents, this was it.
i remember you saying that you knew frazier and liked him alot.
at the end of the 13th round, frazier's trainer eddie futch wanted to stop the fight after the damage he took.
thanks for stopping by.
"joe frazier, i'll tell  the world right now, brings out the best in me.
photo courtesy of vintage-poster-movie.com thanks  for viewing, and i hope you enjoyed today's fsd history flashback!
the fight was a huge financial success with many countries being able to see it with an hbo antenna.
- wrestlemania axxess photo shots: the bella twins!...
- fernbank museum of natural history pics!
it was a great rivalry because of how different they really were.
welcome to another edition of sports history flashback.
eagles star timmy brown's 1963 season - fsd history flashback: october 8 - fsd history flashback: october 7 - fsd history flashback: october 6 - week six fantasy college football top performers - fsd history flashback: october 5 - blogger tips & props - fsd history flashback: october 3 - fantasy college football & funny fantasy team name... - fsd history flashback: october 2 - fsd history flashback: october 1 stats feedjit live blog stats popular posts - top 10 sports teams of the 1970s i'm going to provide my picks for the best teams in the 1970s.
the "thrilla in  manila" was on as ali defended his wba/wbc heavyweight titles.
ali also insisted that frazier was  washed up before this fight after he lost to george foreman as well as ali in  their second fight.
ane's life according to me bella enveeus bill vieira's inside hollywood bill vieira's my piece of paradise bluecrystaldude budiawan's house of book budiawan's quantum indonesia cacai m's place cacai's step and journey cacai's thoughts, ideas, &
the heat had begun to take it's toll on the fighters, but it appeared that frazier would be able to win by the 10th round.
david funk says: october 1, 2008 8:19 pm reply cindy-
you really are providing good stuff about frazier.
if there was ever two contrasts in styles among two opponents, this was it.
ali continued the momentum as frazier had no answer for the right-hand punches to the face.
nachos refers to it on his tsn thing...he may need your help?
i wasn't around during much of that era, but from what i've read, it was the most competitive era in boxing history.
feeding my book addiction g9 sports hazel's my comfort zone hopeful's thoughts n daily living jackie's(shinade)
at the end of the 13th round, frazier's trainer eddie futch wanted  to stop the fight after the damage he took.
ck0712 says: october 1, 2008 7:55 pm reply oh man!!!!!!!!!!!!
by all means, show this to him cindy.
- ► may (11) - wrestling legend randy savage dies at age 58 - happy birthday shemah!
ali finished his career 56-5-0 with 37 wins coming by knockout.
:) 3rdstonefromthesun says: october 1, 2008 9:24 pm reply though ali won that night, i like to remember joe winning the more important fight that american culture was riding on.
he lost the title to leon spinks in 1978, but regained it in the rematch which later led him to retirement.
david funk says: october 1, 2008 8:35 pm
boxing has never been the same ck0712 says: october 2, 2008 6:18 am reply thanks for the support cindy!
it would be awesome if he did!
mind of madman says: october 2, 2008 12:40 am reply "killar" as they chanted in the streets.. great write up.
frazier was a power  puncher that was serious about his craft.
if you're into politics, then check out one of the top political blogs around.
frazier was a power puncher that was serious about his craft.
been a long time since anyone has brought this fight up.
ali also insisted that frazier was washed up before this fight after he lost to george foreman as well as ali in their second fight.
don hutson's 1942 season - fsd history flashback: october 29, 1929 - the lost rivalry: oklahoma sooners vs nebraska co... - fsd history flashback: october 27 - fsd history flashback: october 26, 1984 - fsd history flashback: october 26, 1985 - week nine fantasy college football top performers - fsd history flashback: october 25 - another one drafts a bust -
i'm gonna tell ya, that's one  helluva man, and god bless him," said ali after the fight.
post a comment - blog archives - stats - popular blog archive - ► 2012 (6) - ► april (1) - for all golf fans and players - ► february (4) - my iphone 4s - 2011 oklahoma sooners upper deck cards review - playing table soccer - all funked up site - ► 2011 (59) - ► october (1) - really?
- world of coca-cola museum pics!
- wrestlemania axxess photo shots: kelly kelly - wrestlemania 27 recap & thoughts - wrestlemania axxess photo shots: eve torres!
david funk says: october 1, 2008 9:55 pm
he came back for a rematch against larry holmes in a loss in 1980, and retired for good after a loss to trevor berbick in 1981.
ck0712 says: october 1, 2008 8:04 pm reply i should add: his son marvis who we are all still in touch with, his wife just passed away about 2 years ago, very tragic.
- happy birthday kayce!
ali  was the arrogant fighter who used quickness and speed.
in the opening round of the  fight, ali wanted to take advantage of frazier, who was known for starting out  slow in fights.
argue with everyone advocates strongly on free speech while... - the catch & freezer bowl on january 10, 1982 make an on-line slide show at www.onetruemedia.com
dan fouts' 1981 season - you want some funkin' links to read?
basic bloganomics | powered byblogger design by free wp themes | bloggerized by lasantha - premium blogger themes | international calls provider
frazier said, "they lied".
- wrestlemania axxess photo shots: natalya!
kat livengood's itravel kat livengood's mom's place karna's fiction stories kayce's daily notes kayce's fashionably trendy kayce's i heart them all
ali's energy was spent, but futch finally decided to stop the  fight after the 14th round.
david funk says: october 1, 2008 2:33 pm reply lester-
and to think, i wasn't even alive to witness this or their other fights!
at one point in the 13th round, ali knocked frazier's mouthpiece into the front row of fans.
in the 11th round, ali made a startling comeback as he badly damaged the face of frazier with a flurry of punches.
ali was the arrogant fighter who used quickness and speed.
the painted veil janet & laikka janet's basic highlights janet's highlights janet's insights janet's me and my mestivas jenie's life round menyou jenie's earthy me jenie's at-a-blink jenie's heartquakes jenny's the way i used to be