in his new biography of joe louis, randy roberts explores the mythical status louis achieved and contrasts it with the reality of the sometimes less-than-heroic circumstances of his life.
in his new biography of joe louis, randy roberts explores the mythical  status louis achieved and contrasts it with the reality of the sometimes  less-than-heroic circumstances of his life.
tags: boxing at the fights by bill littlefield | saturday,  march 26th, 2011 the sport of boxing is filled with shady characters, flawed champions, and  tragic tales.
following the death of the boxing great on monday, senior writer for sports illustrated, richard hoffer, speaks with bill littlefield about the legacy of smokin’ joe.
unless you know where it is, you might not notice it.
tags: boxing u.s. holds  first olympic trials for women’s boxing saturday, february 18th,  2012 women’s boxing will be an olympic sport for the first time this  summer in london.
tags: basketball, boxing, football, hockey, nfl, nhl, wacky sports
the sport of boxing is filled with shady characters, flawed champions, and tragic tales.
the movie was  based on the ex-pugilist’s life and went on to win two academy awards in  2011.
tags: boxing action hero, ear biter…boxing hall of  famers by bill littlefield | thursday, december 9th, 2010 the 2011 class that will be inducted into the international boxing hall of  fame includes the “baddest man on earth” and a man who wasn’t  really a boxer at all.
tags:boxing, commentaries saturday, october 9, 2010 saturday,  october 9th, 2010 this week on only a game, kurt warner tries to continue the recent success  of nfl players past and present on abc’s reality series dancing with the  stars.
bill littlefield shares  the story of the gym and the man who runs it.
bill littlefield speaks with associated press reporter greg  beacham, who’s covering the inaugural u.s. olympic trials in airway  heights, wash.. tags: boxing, olympics jimmy cvetic: boxing with  pittsburgh’s youth wednesday, december 14th, 2011
the movie was based on the ex-pugilist’s life and went on to win two academy awards in 2011.tags: boxing
tags: book reviews, boxing, sports history
following the death of the boxing great on monday, senior writer for sports  illustrated, richard hoffer, speaks with bill littlefield about the legacy of  smokin’ joe.
tags: book reviews, boxing bill visits micky ward to discuss, ‘the fighter’.
tags: boxing the 2011 class that will be inducted into the international boxing hall of fame includes the “baddest man on earth” and a man who wasn’t really a boxer at all.
bill littlefield shares the story of the gym and the man who runs it.
bill littlefield wonders if baseball’s big names who are shut out from cooperstown could do better by stepping into the ring.
tags: boxing women’s boxing will be an olympic sport for the first time this summer in london.
in at the fights, editors john schulian  and george kimball have collected their favorite stories about boxing,  including articles they wrote themselves.
in pittsburgh, there is a boxing gym at the corner of third and ross.
leger grindon takes a look at how on-screen boxers bring to  life the struggles and disappointments central to the shaping of  america’s ideas of masculinity.
plus, a story on the mentally and physically exhausting sport of chess  boxing, and a report from india on the commonwealth games – underway  after a shaky buildup.
tags: boxing, commentaries joe frazier was the undisputed heavyweight boxing champion in 1970, whose career is marked by 3 memorable fights against muhammad ali from 1971-1975.
tags: boxing, sports history knockout: the boxer and boxing in american cinema is an examination of hollywood boxing films, including such classics as million dollar baby, rocky, and raging bull.
bill littlefield speaks with associated press reporter greg beacham, who’s covering the inaugural u.s. olympic trials in airway heights, wash..tags: boxing, olympics the new year is still a couple of weeks away, but bill littlefield is getting an early start on remembering his “auld acquaintances” in the spirit of the holiday season.
in at the fights, editors john schulian and george kimball have collected their favorite stories about boxing, including articles they wrote themselves.
tags:boxing, commentaries this week on only a game, kurt warner tries to continue the recent success of nfl players past and present on abc’s reality series dancing with the stars.
so maybe it’s not surprising that the sport of boxing has  also inspired some very good writing.
so maybe it’s not surprising that the sport of boxing has also inspired some very good writing.
tags: boxing, commentaries remembering ‘smokin’ joe frazier saturday, november 12th, 2011 joe frazier was the undisputed heavyweight boxing champion in 1970, whose  career is marked by 3 memorable fights against muhammad ali from 1971-1975.
the gym at third and ross by bill  littlefield | friday, april 13th, 2012 in pittsburgh, there is a boxing gym at the corner of third and ross.
tags: basketball, boxing, football, hockey, nfl, nhl, wacky sports « older entries © copyright 2012 trustees of  boston university only a game is produced by 90.9 wbur fm ·  boston, ma 02215 rss | contact us | sitemap
tags: boxing, sports history ‘knockout’
bill speaks with roberts about his  new book.
plus, a story on the mentally and physically exhausting sport of chess boxing, and a report from india on the commonwealth games – underway after a shaky buildup.
by bill littlefield | saturday, september 24th, 2011 knockout: the boxer and boxing in american cinema is an examination of  hollywood boxing films, including such classics as million dollar baby, rocky,  and raging bull.
bill littlefield wonders if baseball’s big names  who are shut out from cooperstown could do better by stepping into the ring.
leger grindon takes a look at how on-screen boxers bring to life the struggles and disappointments central to the shaping of america’s ideas of masculinity.
bill speaks with roberts about his new book.
by bill littlefield |  saturday, january 1st, 2011
tags: book reviews, boxing,  sports history joe louis: hard times man
the new year is still a couple of weeks away, but bill littlefield is  getting an early start on remembering his “auld acquaintances” in  the spirit of the holiday season.
tags: book reviews, boxing micky  ward’s hollywood knockout saturday, august 27th, 2011 bill visits micky ward to discuss, ‘the fighter’.