arum told espn he did not know about the e-mail, but did say he was trying to secure a rematch with marquez for a fourth fight between the two.
login | register photo by getty images by andy samuelson november 14th, 2011 advertisement photo by getty images
therefore, floyd mayweather will have no other choice than to move on and identify and lock in another opponent for his ring return on may 5.”
“our position is simple and that is that right now, we’re not ready to talk,” arum told yahoo.
photo by getty images november 14th, 2011 advertisement photo by getty images
boxing notebook: superfight already off the table, or is it?
“our position is simple and that is that right now, we’re not  ready to talk,” arum told yahoo.
golden boy promotions ceo richard schaefer, who has worked with mayweather to promote past fights told espn that mayweather’s camp received an email from retired federal judge daniel weinstein, who was acting as a mediator between the two sides to make the richest fight in boxing history, that said top rank is not interested in a fight against mayweather.
mike tyson sent in a videotaped message of condolence, as did real estate  mogul donald trump.
“this is obviously as clear as it can be that they have no intentions of  making a mayweather-pacquiao fight.
the man known as smokin' joe—who handed ali his first loss in the “fight of the century” at madison square garden in 1971, and fought two more memorable bouts with him including the “thrilla in manila”—died last week of liver cancer.
he knows there is no way that manny pacquiao can win, it kills his cash cow, and he wants to do in-house fights where he controls both sides.
rocky’s fists are frozen in stone.
there deserves to be a statue of joe frazier in  downtown philadelphia.”
“we have been informed that bob arum is not interested in pursuing a fight between mayweather and pacquiao at this time,” schaefer said.
manny  pacquiao knows, bob arum knows and freddie roach knows.”
“all along we know why the fight isn’t being made.
but on tuesday in an interview with yahoo! sports, arum didn't rule out a bout against mayweather, but said he would not talk about a fight at the present time.
just two days after manny pacquiao held off juan manuel marquez by a controversial decision at the mgm grand garden arena, the long-rumored megafight between pac-man and undefeated floyd mayweather won’t even be discussed, according to mayweather’s representatives.
just two days after manny pacquiao held off juan manuel marquez by a  controversial decision at the mgm grand garden arena, the long-rumored  megafight between pac-man and undefeated floyd mayweather won’t even be  discussed, according to mayweather’s representatives.
rocky’s fists  are frozen in stone.
rocky never faced ali  or holmes or foreman.
manny pacquiao knows, bob arum knows and freddie roach knows.”
but we’re not ready to talk about it now.”
mike tyson sent in a videotaped message of condolence, as did real estate mogul donald trump.
i have a big fight to promote on dec.  3 (miguel cotto fights antonio margarito at.”
“both guys just fought.
there deserves to be a statue of joe frazier in downtown philadelphia.”
“we have been informed that bob arum is not interested in pursuing a  fight between mayweather and pacquiao at this time,” schaefer said.
i have a big fight to promote on dec. 3 (miguel cotto fights antonio margarito at.”
a tribute to boxing great joe frazier is shown  before the manny pacquiao-juan manuel marquez bout saturday at the mgm grand.
i  said all along why this fight hasn’t been made to this point.
joe’s fists are smokin’.
“in my opinion, there are three reasons why arum doesn’t want the fight.
thousands of other mourners turned out friday and saturday for a public memorial at the wells fargo center in philadelphia.
he knows there is no way that manny pacquiao can win, it kills his  cash cow, and he wants to do in-house fights where he controls both sides.
this is the perfect opportunity,” mayweather’s advisor leonard ellerbe told espn.
champions are made in the ring not in the movies.
rocky never faced ali or holmes or foreman.
i said all along why this fight hasn’t been made to this point.
champions are made in  the ring not in the movies.
this is the fight the fans want to see, and  it's a disgrace that they are not willing to give the fans what they want.
tags: login or register to post comments.
joe frazier was,” said the rev. jesse jackson, referring to philly’s famous movie character that is immortalized with a statue outside the philadelphia museum of art.
this is the fight the fans want to see, and it's a disgrace that they are not willing to give the fans what they want.
“this is obviously as clear as it can be that they have no intentions of making a mayweather-pacquiao fight.
but on tuesday in an interview with yahoo! sports, arum didn't rule out a  bout against mayweather, but said he would not talk about a fight at the  present time.
arum told espn he did not know about the e-mail, but did say he was trying  to secure a rematch with marquez for a fourth fight between the two.
others in attendance were former heavyweight champion larry holmes, fellow philadelphia boxer and middleweight champion bernard hopkins and promoter don king.
“i'm in los angeles now, but im flying to new york in a couple of hours.
therefore, floyd mayweather will have no  other choice than to move on and identify and lock in another opponent for his  ring return on may 5.”
so much for that superfight.
the man known as smokin' joe—who handed ali his first loss in the  “fight of the century” at madison square garden in 1971, and fought  two more memorable bouts with him including the “thrilla in  manila”—died last week of liver cancer.
others in attendance were former heavyweight champion larry  holmes, fellow philadelphia boxer and middleweight champion bernard hopkins and  promoter don king.
in a few weeks, whether it’s a (juan manuel) marquez rematch, a mayweather fight, a fight with timothy bradley, or whatever, we’ll sit down with the appropriate parties and talk.
boxing greats pay respect to frazier some 4,000 people, including boxing legend muhammad ali, packed inside the  enon tabernacle baptist church in philadelphia for a two-hour funeral for  former boxing champion joe frazier on monday.
“tell them rocky was not a champion.
“tell them rocky is fictitious, joe was reality.
thousands of other mourners turned out friday and saturday  for a public memorial at the wells fargo center in philadelphia.
in a few weeks,  whether it’s a (juan manuel) marquez rematch, a mayweather fight, a fight  with timothy bradley, or whatever, we’ll sit down with the appropriate  parties and talk.
some 4,000 people, including boxing legend muhammad ali, packed inside the enon tabernacle baptist church in philadelphia for a two-hour funeral for former boxing champion joe frazier on monday.
a tribute to boxing great joe frazier is shown before the manny pacquiao-juan manuel marquez bout saturday at the mgm grand.
golden boy promotions ceo richard schaefer, who has worked with mayweather  to promote past fights told espn that mayweather’s camp received an email  from retired federal judge daniel weinstein, who was acting as a mediator  between the two sides to make the richest fight in boxing history, that said  top rank is not interested in a fight against mayweather.
“in my opinion, there are three reasons why arum doesn’t want  the fight.
rocky never tasted his own blood.
this is the  perfect opportunity,” mayweather’s advisor leonard ellerbe told  espn.
“i'm in los angeles now, but im  flying to new york in a couple of hours.
joe frazier was,” said the  rev. jesse jackson, referring to philly’s famous movie character that is  immortalized with a statue outside the philadelphia museum of art.
“manny is on his way back to the philippines today.