"frazier quit just before i did," ali said.
the jackets nonetheless made it clear that they were going to be a pain in the acc's butt.
both men spent time in the hospital after that one.
if you would like to purchase tickets through the ticket office visit ramblinwreck.com/tickets or call 888-tech-tix (888-832-4849).
nov. 8, 2011 by matt winkeljohn sting daily it would be easy to judge this as heresy, but when i suggest that recent meetings of georgia tech and virginia tech have been a bit like the frazier-ali trilogy of the early 1970s, it's meant to honor the utter investment both teams seem to make when taking on the other.
ramblinwreckstore.com shop for all of your georgia tech merchandise and apparel at ramblinwreckstore.com.
"it's always a tough game when we play vt," said junior guard  omoregie uzzi.
there were plenty of big plays in that one, including roddy jones' 5-yard run on a late fourth-and-4, and thenorwin smith's 9-yard run to tie it with 2:34 left.
"it's fun to be out there when that's going on.
that's not unlike the tech-tech rivalry, especially since paul johnson  became head coach of the yellow jackets before the 2008 season.
those two men threw everything at each as if their lives  were hanging in the balance.
that moved the hokies up 28-21.
each time, the winner went on to win the acc's  coastal division, and then the conference title.
that may be the gold standard of athletic competition, of men summoning more than anyone might expect them to have.
georgia tech athletics congratulations to our student-athletes of the week for march 5, 2012.
send your comments to  stingdaily@gmail.com.
it was so annoying to read and even see on abc's wide world of sports the  way ali toyed publicly with frazier, and i loathed howard cosell's role in  that; he gave ali too big a platform.
the hokies held on, winning on a field goal with 4:37 left in the game, winning, really, only because georgia tech turned the ball over three times as the home team never coughed it up.
the gold standard the gold standard is a campus wide effort of the georgia tech athletic association to raise awareness of sportsmanship at all georgia tech athletic events by increasing positive yellow jacket support.
i'm betting the jackets and hokies are going to go at it thursday.
georgia tech outgained the defending acc champions 387 yards to 247, and  when josh nesbitt scored on an 18-yard run with 9:28 to tie the game (with the  help of a two-point conversion), an upstart was banging its way into the  conference consciousness.
last season, when the jackets probably had no business competing with the hokies after nesbitt broke his arm late in the first half in blacksburg,tevin washington rallied the visitors to tie in another nationally-televised contest, this on a thursday night.
in truth, there may never be anything athletic as wholly captivating as  the three-pack of boxing matches between joe frazier and muhammad ali in the  1970s.
for the third year in a row, the jackets ran foster crazy, rushing for 346 yards while out-gaining the hokies 426-335.
that may be the gold standard of athletic competition, of men summoning  more than anyone might expect them to have.
the jackets - ranked  no. 19 themselves - pulled out a 28-23 win that may not have been that close.
the winner of the second would earn a  shot at the belt.
today, one day after the passing of one of my very first heroes, i can't  shake frazier's miller lite beer commercial from my mind.
the alexander-tharpe fund, inc. was established to ensure that this tradition can be extended far into the future.
like a couple of bull-headed boxers, though, the techs seem certain to elevate each through their exchange of competitive nature.
again this year, if we lose we're out of the race, so to speak, so it's a big game for us."
in the first and third, the  world heavyweight title was on the line.
remember, tv replays were few and far between and other  than sluggish newspaper and magazine accounts, word-of-mouth was king.
consequently, i was crushed when ali beat frazier twice the next four-plus years (and mortified when george foreman destroyed joe in the interim).
the jackets completed just one pass,  yet rushed for 309 yards.
georgia tech vs. virginia tech has one writer drawing comparisons to  ali-frazier.
the jackets, in fact, led 14-0  after nesbitt's 71-yard gallop - his second td of the game.
frustration was evident on joe's face, even to a kid.
joe frazier was one of my earliest favorite athletes.
it was so annoying to read and even see on abc's wide world of sports the way ali toyed publicly with frazier, and i loathed howard cosell's role in that; he gave ali too big a platform.
a year later, vt was the no. 4 team in the land upon visiting the flats, but in a rousing saturday night game inbobby dodd stadium the jackets - ranked no. 19 themselves - pulled out a 28-23 win that may not have been that close.
this is not frazier-ali, but nobody should be surprised if the intensity  of thursday night's game rivals that of championship matches.
i quickly made myself an expert (hah).
the sting daily the sting daily is a six-day-per-week electronic newsletter featuring georgia tech athletics.
i didn't care for ali, or any hyper-confident athletes.
in '08, the jackets were big underdogs in blacksburg, va., yet gave the hokies hell for three hours as famed vt defensive coordinator bud foster went bananas trying to scheme against johnson's fangled option offense.
neither can i cut loose of the notion that without frazier - who nearly  beat ali to a pulp in their third fight only to find himself beaten just as  badly - was no less responsible for making ali than ali himself.
i  asked, and my father gave me the news at breakfast.
support athletics georgia tech's student-athletes have a proud history of bringing distinction to the institute on the playing field, in the classroom, and in their careers.
the jackets, in fact, led 14-0 after nesbitt's 71-yard gallop - his second td of the game.
frank sinatra won't be ring-side snapping pictures, nor will anybody fail to answer a bell.
last season, when the jackets probably had no business competing with the  hokies after nesbitt broke his arm late in the first half in blacksburg,tevin  washington rallied the visitors to tie in another nationally-televised contest,  this on a thursday night.
rankings blog georgia tech vs. virginia tech has one writer drawing comparisons to ali-frazier.
he was perceived by many to be an interloper in a kingdom of others in the waning years of an era when a handful in boxing's upper crust were considered athletic royalty.
no words can capture the complete essence of frazier-ali.
nesbitt went for 122 and three touchdowns by himself.
georgia tech tickets ticket city is georgia tech's official secondary ticket partner.
this is not frazier-ali, but nobody should be surprised if the intensity of thursday night's game rivals that of championship matches.
" hey, i know some of this is a stretch, but . . .
ty marshall (womens basketball) averaged 22 points a game and led her team to championship game of acc tournament, while daniel palka (baseball) led his team to a 4-0 record over the week.
the jackets completed just one pass, yet rushed for 309 yards.
joe ran a jackhammer among bluebloods.
later, i saw a write-up in the columbus dispatch.
in truth, there may never be anything athletic as wholly captivating as the three-pack of boxing matches between joe frazier and muhammad ali in the 1970s.
"since i've been here, this game has been a big, big game every year," johnson said.
" replays were more readily available by 1975.
a year later, vt was the no. 4 team in the land upon visiting the flats,  but in a rousing saturday night game inbobby dodd stadium
my best friend was  a jerry quarry fan, but even then i could see that quarry had no shot.
"this game has been a big part of the division  race.
so now georgia tech (7-2, 4-2 acc) is ranked no. 20, and virginia tech  (8-1, 4-1) is no. 10.
the hokies have won twice, the jackets once.
those two men threw everything at each as if their lives were hanging in the balance.
since the league's inception in 1953, its 12 members have combined for 105 national championships.
upon learning that frazier had beaten ali in 1971, my week was made.
again this year, if we lose we're out of the race, so to speak, so it's a  big game for us."
legend is fuzzy on some details, but it has  been told that ali had told corner man, angelo dundee, to cut his gloves off as  well.
the show airs each monday from 8-9 p.m. please be advised that the january 9th show will not air from stats, it will be produced at the 790 studios.
i haven't looked it up to be certain of the exact phrasing, but ali said something like, "it was the closest thing to dying," after the "thrilla in manilla.
honestly, i latched onto him both because at the time - when as a 7- and 8-year-old i was beginning to pick favorites in everything - he was the world heavyweight champion (at about 205 pounds, which btw is washington's listed weight), and because he was not ali.
his style was utterly inelegant.
honestly, i latched onto him both because at the time - when as a 7- and  8-year-old i was beginning to pick favorites in everything - he was the world  heavyweight champion (at about 205 pounds, which btw is washington's listed  weight), and because he was not ali.
legend is fuzzy on some details, but it has been told that ali had told corner man, angelo dundee, to cut his gloves off as well.
"it's always a tough game when we play vt," said junior guard omoregie uzzi.
"it's  fun to be out there when that's going on."
foster looked as if he might expire.
it's hard nowadays to believe  that boxing was once taken seriously, but upon watching that one again it's not
the winner of the second would earn a shot at the belt.
so difficult any more.
alumni in the pros follow all the yellow jacket alumni currently playing in the professional ranks.
the hokies have  won twice, the jackets once.
the man made a sword out of a microphone, and a sledge out of cameras.
ali won two of those fights, frazier one.
lane stadium was rocking, yet  washington drove the jackets to the virginia tech 17-yard-line before an  interception in the end zone with eight seconds left sealed the deal.
"since i've been here, this game has been a big, big game every  year," johnson said.
to begin receiving your sting daily, sign-up here for free!
joe was an underdog on multiple levels.
it ended when frazier's corner man, eddie futch, wouldn't let his boxer go out for the 15th and final round.
"i didn't think i could fight any more.
smokin' joe's on my brain.
for the third year in a row, the jackets ran foster crazy, rushing for 346  yards while out-gaining the hokies 426-335.
his style was  utterly inelegant.
that's not unlike the tech-tech rivalry, especially since paul johnson became head coach of the yellow jackets before the 2008 season.
it's hard nowadays to believe that boxing was once taken seriously, but upon watching that one again it's not so difficult any more.
"when you run out and the stadium is packed and the crowd is into it, you can kind of feel the atmosphere and when things started going well and the fans got behind them, i think you feed off that," johnson said.
when given chances, frazier wasn't nearly eloquent enough to blunt the blade nor slow the anvil.
"when you run out and the stadium is packed and the crowd is into it,  you can kind of feel the atmosphere and when things started going well and the  fans got behind them, i think you feed off that," johnson said.
when given chances, frazier wasn't nearly eloquent enough to blunt the  blade nor slow the anvil.
joe frazier, i'll tell the world right now, brings out the best in me.
the acc now in its 57th year of competition, the atlantic coast conference has long enjoyed the reputation as one of the strongest intercollegiate conferences in the nation.
"this game has been a big part of the division race.
so now georgia tech (7-2, 4-2 acc) is ranked no. 20, and virginia tech (8-1, 4-1) is no. 10.
my best friend was a jerry quarry fan, but even then i could see that quarry had no shot.
i haven't looked it up to be certain of the exact phrasing, but ali said  something like, "it was the closest thing to dying," after the  "thrilla in manilla.
"this will be one of the biggest games of my life."
back to football printer-friendly format   email this  article georgia tech nfl draft central brock football indoor practice facility 2011 information guide
nov. 8, 2011 by matt winkeljohn sting daily it would be easy to judge this as heresy, but when i suggest that recent  meetings of georgia tech and virginia tech have been a bit like the frazier-ali  trilogy of the early 1970s, it's meant to honor the utter investment both teams  seem to make when taking on the other.
i asked, and my father gave me the news at breakfast.
he was perceived by many to be an interloper in a kingdom of  others in the waning years of an era when a handful in boxing's upper crust  were considered athletic royalty.
the man made a sword out of a microphone,  and a sledge out of cameras.
like a couple of bull-headed boxers, though, the techs seem certain to  elevate each through their exchange of competitive nature.
even then, georgia tech wouldn't go away.
today, one day after the passing of one of my very first heroes, i can't shake frazier's miller lite beer commercial from my mind.
in the first and third, the world heavyweight title was on the line.
no play was bigger, though, than david  wilson's 90-yard kickoff return  before smith had even caught his breath.
on tech's 2012 football opponents yellow jackets announce 2012 football schedule tickets on the road blog cbssports.com football top 25
frank  sinatra won't be ring-side snapping pictures, nor will anybody fail to answer a  bell.
consequently, i was crushed when ali beat frazier twice the next four-plus  years (and mortified when george foreman destroyed joe in the interim).
lane stadium was rocking, yet washington drove the jackets to the virginia tech 17-yard-line before an interception in the end zone with eight seconds left sealed the deal.
later, i saw a write-up in  the columbus dispatch.
there were plenty of big plays in that one, including roddy jones' 5-yard  run on a late fourth-and-4, and thenorwin smith's 9-yard run to tie it with  2:34 left.
neither can i cut loose of the notion that without frazier - who nearly beat ali to a pulp in their third fight only to find himself beaten just as badly - was no less responsible for making ali than ali himself.
my interest in frazier, after all, prompted me to check out how-to-box books from the library.
"i didn't think  i could fight any more.
no play was bigger, though, than david wilson's 90-yard kickoff return before smith had even caught his breath.
hey, i know some of this is a stretch, but . . .
in '08, the jackets were big underdogs in blacksburg, va., yet gave the  hokies hell for three hours as famed vt defensive coordinator bud foster went  bananas trying to scheme against johnson's fangled option offense.
georgia tech outgained the defending acc champions 387 yards to 247, and when josh nesbitt scored on an 18-yard run with 9:28 to tie the game (with the help of a two-point conversion), an upstart was banging its way into the conference consciousness.
my  interest in frazier, after all, prompted me to check out how-to-box books from  the library.
be sure to join us for the brian gregory radio show at stats in downtown atlanta.
the jackets nonetheless made it clear that  they were going to be a pain in the acc's butt.
the hokies held on, winning on a field goal with 4:37 left in the game,  winning, really, only because georgia tech turned the ball over three times as  the home team never coughed it up.
remember, tv replays were few and far between and other than sluggish newspaper and magazine accounts, word-of-mouth was king.
send your comments to stingdaily@gmail.com.
joe frazier, i'll tell the world right now, brings out  the best in me.
it ended when frazier's corner man, eddie futch, wouldn't let his boxer go  out for the 15th and final round.
the institute the georgia institute of technology is one of the nation's top research universities, distinguished by its commitment to improving the human condition through advanced science and technology.
each time, the winner went on to win the acc's coastal division, and then the conference title.
" sorry for the loose parallels today.