further examination reveals these influences run the gamut in terms of their attitudes, behavior, morals, and politics.
it is certainly true that ali and frazier were friends before  their conflicts consumed frazier with fury.
"smokin'" joe frazier: the death of the disrespected
they range from nietzsche to jesus christ.
the establishment had chosen the anti-hero, and joe frazier was cast merely as the foil and the fool.
this shouldn't have been joe frazier's fate: the convenient hero of  everyone who wanted to see ali punished for his politics.
one of 13 children born in abject poverty in beaufort, south carolina, it's certainly understandable why he would accept the historic invite.
for  frazier, it was more scarring than any punch in ali's arsenal.
yet there was ali lighting the torch while he was  stuck at home.
we need to quit thinking about who drives the fanciest car or who is my little daughter going to play with, who is she going to sit next to in school.
become an edge of sports sustainer (click here)
he had, in ali's eyes,  become a hero to the very people who as a young man in south carolina wouldn't  have even spit in his direction.
ali taunted frazier for being an uncle tom.
your name (only if we need to contact you—not for advertising purposes)
ali is a great human being.
he told jokes to great laughter about growing up  in beaufort and saying, "yes bawse and no bawse" no matter the  question.
contact him at edgeofsports@gmail.com please consider making a donation to keep this site going.
this shouldn't have  been joe frazier's fate: internalizing and nursing every barb from  "gaseous cassius" instead of letting it roll off his back.
he never boasted of throwing his medal in the ohio river.
speaking in a room with a confederate flag backdrop in front of a chamber  with only three black representatives among its 170 elected officials,  frazier's message was gentle.
ali said to frazier, "you just keep whupping those guys in the ring, and i'll keep fighting uncle sam and one day we'll make a lot of money together" but by 1971, both men were playing their roles.
this  shouldn't have been joe frazier's fate: rejected by the same establishment so  quick to embrace him when it suited their needs.
it was heavyweight boxing champion "smokin'"
my daddy is the one who whipped muhammad ali."
in reflecting upon the life and times of smokin' joe fraizer and muhummad ali (and his inevitable demise) let us never for forget that let "he/she who is devoid of good, bad, and ugly aspects" throw the first stone.
his later attempts to "promote" their fights were even uglier and abusive.
this shouldn't have been joe frazier's fate: the convenient hero of everyone who wanted to see ali punished for his politics.
then his own 10 year old daughter, to great cheer stood and said, "float like a butterfly, sting like a bee.
[dave zirin is the author of “the john carlos story” (haymarket) and just made the new documentary “not just a game.”
we don't have time for that."
and what was worse, is that the effects of the controversy spilled over into the boxing careers of the daughters of both men.
years later, ali commented, "i said a lot of things in the heat of the moment that i shouldn't have said.
though to be fair, who is the one who's been co-opted now?
joe frazier who died this week at the age of 67.
just as a thought: ancestor geronimo ji jaga pratt served in the military as well.
all power to the people
it boggled frazier's mind when his adopted home of philadelphia put up a statue of a boxer, and chose the very fictional—and very white—rocky balboa as their favorite fighting son.
receive his column every week by emailingdave@edgeofsports.com.
i can understand frazier's hatred for ali.
the "uncle tom" indignity was thrown at frazier prior to their '71 fight, and it was was tremendously scathing.
yet comrade zirin ignores the fact that ali attended a ku klux klan rally to support racial separatism.
ali and frazier will be remembered for their three epic fights.
in the wake of frazier's death much has been written that he didn't deserve this tag: that he was labelled unfairly as a "sellout" by ali and suffered for it.
he had, in ali's eyes, become a hero to the very people who as a young man in south carolina wouldn't have even spit in his direction.
he also repeatedly insulted ali by calling him by his birthname, "clay"
i guess ali was not being completely inaccurate in his characterization of frazier.
joe frazier was the 1964 olympic gold medalist.
contact him at  edgeofsports@gmail.com.]
called him names i shouldn't have called him.
comrade zirin takes frazier to task for speaking to the south carolina legislature-- which incidentally had more black legislators at the time than in new york.
imagine his comment about pushing ali in the flames when ali lit the olympic torch.
i apologize for that.
i can believe ali's apologies to frazier but i don't believe frazier's apologies were sincere
copyright © 2003-2012 dave zirin
posted by bruno evangelista on 11/13/11 at 7:49 am please note:
and then, after he whipped ali in the "fight of the century," joe frazier accepted that invitation to speak at the south carolina legislature: a conquering hero.
for frazier, it was more scarring than any punch in ali's arsenal.
the first african american man to address the south carolina state  legislature after the civil war wasn't booker t. washington or w.e.b. dubois or  dr. martin luther king.
ali taunted frazier for  being an uncle tom.
in 1971, who would have thought it would end this way, ali carrying the torch for good ole usa, frazier kicked to the curb.
the noi threatened ali repeatedly, and feed him many of "his" best lines about those vietcong, etc.
he told jokes to great laughter about growing up in beaufort and saying, "yes bawse and no bawse" no matter the question.
if that not true hate, i don't know what is.
we need to quit thinking about who drives the  fanciest car or who is my little daughter going to play with, who is she going  to sit next to in school.
posted by conspiracy brother on 11/10/11 at 6:03 pm that is really sad... and ironic.
ali came from a solidly-middle class family in louisville, who later became a slavish follower of the cult-like nation of islam.
but that doesn't make it any less of a full embrace of his role as the "good one" in the ali-frazier melodrama.
and he came back home and put his skills to good use, by becoming a member of the black panther party and keeping many afrikan people alive when j edgar hoover's cointelpro 'counter intelligence' program sought to disrupt and dis-unify and kill everyone everyone from the rev dr. martin luther king, jr. and the southern christian leadership conference to el hajj malik el shabazz and the organization of afro-american unity to the bpp.
subject message dave zirin is the author of the book: "welcome to the terrordome: the pain, politics and promise of sports" (haymarket).
he spoke verses on how  "black and ugly" frazier was.
speaking in a room with a confederate flag backdrop in front of a chamber with only three black representatives among its 170 elected officials, frazier's message was gentle.
the only reason frazier was asked to speak to the south carlonia legislature was because he beat ali and they wanted ali to be beaten so badly.
this illustrates thoroughly how divisive political agendas can separate afrikan people and any peoples who basically believe in freedom and empowerment.
he spoke verses on how "black and ugly" frazier was.
while the chamber and national media swooned, ali seethed.
one of 13 children born in abject poverty in beaufort, south carolina, it's  certainly understandable why he would accept the historic invite.
contact him at edgeofsports@gmail.com.]
he did things  "the right way" and philly gave him the back of their hand like they  were just another "bawse" in beaufort.
when their epic 1975 fight in manila loomed, ali repeatedly called frazier "a gorilla."
years later, ali commented, "i said a lot of things in the heat of the  moment that i shouldn't have said.
centuries to come the world will still remember ali and frazier will only be remembered as the first man to beat ali.
in retirement he would express  joy at any role he may have played in ali's parkinson's disease.
one deserved our praise, the other our contempt.
if one were to examine the influences upon one of america's inconic giants, i.e., mlk, jr, one would realize his intellect and persona were informed by a slew of influences.
then his own 10  year old daughter, to great cheer stood and said, "float like a butterfly,  sting like a bee.
and, you know, i like ali; i just don't like him when i think about frazier.
yet there was ali lighting the torch while he was stuck at home.
[dave zirin is the author of “the john carlos story”  (haymarket) and just made the new documentary “not just a game.”
when ali famously lit the torch at the 1996 olympics, frazier expressed grief that he couldn't be there to shove ali into the fires.
posted by floyd davis on 11/11/11 at 12:49 am ali-frazier i learned some things i didn't know.
ancestor smokin' joe frazier should be remembered for his positive deeds and contributions to afrikan people and to humanity.
he said that because he loved america, he'd proudly  fight in vietnam.
it is certainly true that ali and frazier were friends before their conflicts consumed frazier with fury.
hmm, i didn't know about some of frazier's actions during that time.
everyone is aware that ali always berated his opponents to sell tickets to his fights.
he also said earnestly, "we must save our people, and when i say 'our people' i mean white and black.
as the 1970s labored on, and the movements that thrived at the decade's inception began to wither, ali's taunts toward frazier became less political and more indefensible.
joe frazier's shift away from supporting ali's actions is curious.
seen from the eyes of the dominant culture frazier was the flag waving accommodationist ("our black") and ali was the anti-war militant ("their black").
it's also true that when ali was forced into exile for resisting the draft, it was joe frazier who gave ali money when many others turned their backs on "the greatest."
however, frazier always hated ali for the things he said about him.
ali, however, didn't wait forjoe's talk at the legislature to insult him at a very embarrassing personal level.
muhammad ali, however was a truly great boxer and his refusal to fight in vietnam where, 'no vietnamese ever called him n---,' was the correct decision to make.
without ali we would not even be talking about frazier today.
but it he is not a real boxer and the guy the movie is loosely based on (chuck wepner), stallone financially stiff armed.
frazier must have been disheartened when he finally saw how history judged him.
i mean white and black.
and then, after he whipped ali in the "fight of the century," joe  frazier accepted that invitation to speak at the south carolina legislature: a  conquering hero.
the beaten champ said frazier was "consorting with the enemy."
posted by ashley on 11/10/11 at 10:05 pm ali/ frazier ali was the consumate entertainer and at the same time one of the greatest sports figure the world has ever known.
it's also true that when ali was  forced into exile for resisting the draft, it was joe frazier who gave ali  money when many others turned their backs on "the greatest."
the man doesn't have a hateful bone in his body.
the beaten champ  said frazier was "consorting with the enemy."
muhammad ali is being remembered for his.
the establishment had chosen the anti-hero, and joe frazier was  cast merely as the foil and the fool.
"smokin' joe" deserved so much better.
he never said  "god damn america."
he did things "the right way" and philly gave him the back of their hand like they were just another "bawse" in beaufort.
for smokin' joe the lesson was: you lie down with dogs and you'll wake up with fleas.
he never said "god damn america."
frazier had just emerged  victorious from his epic 1971 encounter against muhammad ali, in a fight that  was cast as a culture war between the "draft dodger" ali and the  "establishment hero" joe frazier.
"smokin' joe"  deserved so much better.
in retirement he would express joy at any role he may have played in ali's parkinson's disease.
you'll end up broken every time.
when their epic 1975 fight in manila loomed, ali  repeatedly called frazier "a gorilla."
that statue of rocky also left me dumbfounded.
you can't expect to find your sense of worth and dignity from trying to please the master.
this forum is for dialog between edge of sports readers.
he said that because he loved america, he'd proudly fight in vietnam.
he also repeatedly insulted ali by calling him by his  birthname, "clay"
i can see why he "chippy".
it was all meant to promote the fight" joe frazier didn't want to hear apologies.
this sad story just speaks to the complex nature of what it's like to be black in this society.
what we see in the frazier-ali rivalry was that split that would develop in african american political thought, today pretty much represented by herman cain and barack obama.
if you were against the war in vietnam, you rooted yourself hoarse for ali.
the roots of his anger were deeper than just anything uttered by muhammad  ali.
by  dave zirin print this article
frazier also, and less remembered, taunted ali for being  against the war.
this shouldn't have been joe frazier's fate: internalizing and nursing every barb from "gaseous cassius" instead of letting it roll off his back.
this shouldn't have been joe frazier's fate: rejected by the same establishment so quick to embrace him when it suited their needs.
the roots of his anger were deeper than just anything uttered by muhammad ali.
frazier also, and less remembered, taunted ali for being against the war.
rip joe frazier "an american hero!"posted by ron stewart, ph.d. on 11/11/11 at 11:36 am head protection for boxers ali killed smokin joe, joe killed ali....for the entertainmenet of the masses..
ali said to frazier, "you just keep whupping those guys in the ring,  and i'll keep fighting uncle sam and one day we'll make a lot of money  together" but by 1971, both men were playing their roles.
if you wanted the hippies, freaks  and black power disciples humbled, you wanted "smokin'"
it was all meant to promote the  fight" joe frazier didn't want to hear apologies.
if you wanted the hippies, freaks and black power disciples humbled, you wanted "smokin'"
he also said earnestly, "we must save our people, and when i say 'our  people'
frazier had just emerged victorious from his epic 1971 encounter against muhammad ali, in a fight that was cast as a culture war between the "draft dodger" ali and the "establishment hero" joe frazier.
it boggled frazier's mind when his adopted home of philadelphia put up a  statue of a boxer, and chose the very fictional—and very  white—rocky balboa as their favorite fighting son.
posted by pat kiefer on 11/12/11 at 1:44 am ali-frazier good article.
i do not understand it.
in the wake of frazier's death much has been written that he didn't deserve  this tag: that he was labelled unfairly as a "sellout" by ali and  suffered for it.
in the end, the powers that be only love you to the extent they can use you and profit from you (you listening magic johnson).
you can receive his column edge of sports, every week by going todave@edgeofsports.com.
the first african american man to address the south carolina state legislature after the civil war wasn't booker t. washington or w.e.b. dubois or dr. martin luther king.
called him names i shouldn't have called  him.
for ali, it was part of the show.
the incorrect decision was made on the part of the state department and the country that stripped him of his title for his political beliefs.
when ali  famously lit the torch at the 1996 olympics, frazier expressed grief that he  couldn't be there to shove ali into the fires.
watch hbo's thrilla in manila if you want a more realistic protrayal of their relationship than zirin gives in his white-washed, commercialized-radical version of ali.
but that  doesn't make it any less of a full embrace of his role as the "good  one" in the ali-frazier melodrama.
if you were against the war in  vietnam, you rooted yourself hoarse for ali.
as the 1970s labored on, and the movements that thrived at the decade's  inception began to wither, ali's taunts toward frazier became less political  and more indefensible.
the lesson for me is this: learning to love yourself is the greatest love of all.
he never dodged a draft.