tolliver the courier your messenger for the river valley copyright 2012
no comments yet - top news - most commented - most viewed petrino out at arkansas | 04.10.12 - 07:29 pm by the associated press
ali called him a gorilla, an uncle tom.
foreman recalled tuesday during a telephone interview.
in review: rylee family, rpd, sheriff's office still locked in battle over death | 5 years ago the courier your messenger for the river valley copyright 2012
no one in madison square garden that night, it seemed, wanted him to beat muhammad ali.
“but you  have to know the times, the race struggle in america.
“joe never forgave muhammad ali for what he did to him, but joe frazier proved that he wasn’t only a great fighter but a great man.”
and he  couldn’t see out of the other.
in the end, he’ll go down as one of the great  heavyweights ever, a man who fought hard in ali’s shadow, then fought  even harder to get out of it.
that fight  changed things for a lot of people.
“joe frazier was one brave man.”
understand that, and you understood joe frazier.
write to him at  tdahlberg(at)ap.org or follow him at twitter.com/timdahlberg
not the fans who  scraped together enough money to get a cheap seat in the rafters, and certainly  not the celebrities and various rogues of the night who dressed in their finest  to parade around ringside before the bout.
“maybe someday in heaven he’ll have a chance to do it.”
if that wasn’t enough, he knocked ali down in the 15th round with one of his classic left hooks to seal the deal.
it changed the respect paid when people would look at other people of color.”
it didn’t work against foreman because foreman was simply too big, too powerful.
“you didn’t want him getting up, and you really didn’t want him getting up mad.”
the courier copyright 2012
april 10, 2012  an appreciation for joe frazier by tim dahlberg associated press 09:00 am, wednesday, november 09 2011  | 651 views | 0  |  1    |  | view slideshow (2 images) prev          next george foreman’s crushing right uppercut connected for the first time in  round 1 and, suddenly, the heavyweight champion of the world was on the canvas.
barbra streisand and bill cosby watched from seats just a few steps away.
he wasn’t going to beat people with his physical skills, so he figured  out a way to keep relentless pressure on until he could find a way to land a  left hook that surely was one of the most beautiful punches in boxing.
joe calvin | 5 months ago the courier your messenger for the river valley copyright 2012
understand that, and you  understood joe frazier.
“all he wanted to do was beat up  muhammad ali one more time,” foreman said.
janice brashear  | 6 months ago the courier your messenger for  the river valley copyright 2012
foreman recalled tuesday during a telephone  interview.
this material may not be  published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
six times in all before the bell could sound to end  the second round.
six times in all before the bell could sound to end the second round.
“joe frazier, sharp as a razor,”  he told them.
but that’s what frazier was.
professional outdoors features announcements lunch menus
“joe frazier, sharp as a razor,” he told them.
joe couldn’t  understand why some of the blacks looked at him with disdain and then extolled  muhammad ali.
in the end, he’ll go down as one of the great heavyweights ever, a man who fought hard in ali’s shadow, then fought even harder to get out of it.
joe couldn’t understand why some of the blacks looked at him with disdain and then extolled muhammad ali.
teacher grazed by bullet | 04.05.12 - 07:26 pm by courier staff the courier your messenger for the river valley copyright 2012
barbra streisand and bill cosby watched from  seats just a few steps away.
ali put out a statement saying he would always remember  frazier with respect and admiration, something frazier surely would have  scoffed at.
ali called  him a gorilla, an uncle tom.
“that was the greatest thing that ever happened in my  life.”
neither he nor ali were ever the same after the brutal bout,  and frazier would have only one more meaningful fight, a second knockout loss  to foreman.
the bitterness toward ali that frazier carried throughout the rest of his life was especially rooted in that fight.
round two: dederick lee is the tri-county boy’s basketball player of the year | 04.08.12 - 12:00 pm by kevin hill
but  that’s what frazier was.
but he loved to make appearances, loved to be with fans, as he was in september when he signed memorabilia in las vegas.
ali would later say it was the closest thing he ever knew to death.
they saw frazier do what no man had done  before — beat the great ali.
though blinded by his swollen eyes, frazier still tried to fight the 15th round against one of the greatest fighters ever.
the courier - your messenger for the river  valley.
ali put out a statement saying he would always remember frazier with respect and admiration, something frazier surely would have scoffed at.
he fought ali the way he fought everyone, with his chin planted on his opponent’s shoulder, because that was the only way he could fight.
not the fans who scraped together enough money to get a cheap seat in the rafters, and certainly not the celebrities and various rogues of the night who dressed in their finest to parade around ringside before the bout.
pottsville man builds up boxers  | 8 years ago the courier your  messenger for the river valley copyright 2012
frazier wasn’t going to surrender his heavyweight title until the referee mercifully put an end to the carnage in jamaica.
pottsville man builds up boxers | 8 years ago the courier your messenger for the river valley copyright 2012
“joe could never forgive him for that,” king said over the phone.
tim dahlberg is a  national sports columnist for the associated press.
“joe frazier wouldn’t back away from king  kong,” foreman said.
content © 2012, russellville newspapers inc. the courier - your messenger for the river valley in russellville, ar.
the courier - your messenger for  the river valley.
across the ring, foreman  was thinking one thing: please don’t let joe frazier get up.
frazier wasn’t going to surrender his  heavyweight title until the referee mercifully put an end to the carnage in  jamaica.
my content my profiles my events my blogs my buddies current issue past issues browse classifieds submit a classified restaurants shopping sports and recreation hotels/lodging health real estate other april 10, 2012 an appreciation for joe frazier by tim dahlberg associated press 09:00 am, wednesday, november 09 2011 | 651 views | 0 | 1 | | view slideshow (2 images) prev next > george foreman’s crushing right uppercut connected for the first time in round 1 and, suddenly, the heavyweight champion of the world was on the canvas.
it didn’t work against foreman because foreman was simply too big, too  powerful.
comments (0) post a comment
he kept trying to fight ali even though one eye was swollen shut
advanced articles ads businesses events videos search newcomers rvl magazine medical directory
they saw frazier do what no man had done before — beat the great ali.
at ringside, the shocking sight sent howard cosell into a frenzy.
“i can’t go nowhere where it’s not mentioned,” frazier said.
“all he wanted to do was beat up muhammad ali one more time,” foreman said.
all rights reserved.
he kept getting up when foreman knocked him  down.
frank sinatra shot pictures for life magazine from ringside.
yet there he was still, out on his feet but still  upright and ready for more.
“his pride and dignity made him fight to the  end,” don king said.
the bitterness toward ali that frazier carried  throughout the rest of his life was especially rooted in that fight.
an undersized warrior who didn’t know how  to back down.
this  material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
he would burn through all the riches he made in the ring, ending up in an apartment over his gym in philadelphia.
write to him at tdahlberg(at)ap.org or follow him at twitter.com/timdahlberg
a fighter to the core.
subscribe advertise sign up for e-blasts hot deals jobs home news sports rvl opinion blogs events archive my content e-edition classifieds biz directory
though blinded by his swollen eyes,  frazier still tried to fight the 15th round against one of the greatest  fighters ever.
that fight changed things for a lot of people.
but he loved to make  appearances, loved to be with fans, as he was in september when he signed  memorabilia in las vegas.
the courier copyright 2012 the courier - your messenger for the river valley.
janice brashear | 6 months ago the courier your messenger for the river valley copyright 2012
pets forms editorials columnists letters to the editor submit a letter
and i said to myself ‘oh boy, he’s going to  get me now,’”
“joe never forgave muhammad ali for what he  did to him, but joe frazier proved that he wasn’t only a great fighter  but a great man.”
brave enough to hand muhammad ali his first loss and  then almost fight to the death with him in the philippines.
brave enough to take on the fearsome and much bigger foreman in a fight he  seemed destined to lose.
no one in madison square  garden that night, it seemed, wanted him to beat muhammad ali.
brave enough to hand muhammad ali his first loss and then almost fight to the death with him in the philippines.
adam franks sean ingram news briefs local scenes community calendar post your event
frank sinatra shot pictures  for life magazine from ringside.
he kept getting up when foreman knocked him down.
fear the shooter: kaylee wiedower is the 2012 tri-county girl’s basketball player of the year | 04.09.12 - 08:41 pm by kevin hill
and he kept fighting for his  rightful place in history until his death monday night in philadelphia at the  age of 67.
get up frazier did, only  to go down again and again.
“his pride and dignity made him fight to the end,” don king said.
when frazier returned home, his children asked why  the other kids at school were saying the same thing.
if that wasn’t enough, he knocked ali  down in the 15th round with one of his classic left hooks to seal the deal.
the 40th anniversary of the fight of the century was looming, and frazier was more than happy to talk about a memorable night long past.
ali would later say it was the  closest thing he ever knew to death.
brave enough to take on the fearsome and much bigger foreman in a fight he seemed destined to lose.
but smokin’ joe was an integral part of history.
member of the associated press the associated press is entitled exclusively to the use of or republication of all the local news printed in this newspaper as well as ap news dispatches.
robinson found guilty on three charges | 04.03.12 - 12:05 pm by heather sprinkle the courier your messenger for the river valley copyright 2012
that fight changed things  for frazier, too.
associated press copyright 2012
when frazier returned home, his children asked why the other kids at school were saying the same thing.
he wasn’t going to beat people with his physical skills, so he figured out a way to keep relentless pressure on until he could find a way to land a left hook that surely was one of the most beautiful punches in boxing.
neither he nor ali were ever the same after the brutal bout, and frazier would have only one more meaningful fight, a second knockout loss to foreman.
this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
“you didn’t want him getting up, and you really  didn’t want him getting up mad.”
yet there he was still, out on his feet but still upright and ready for more.
an undersized warrior who didn’t know how to back down.
ali found a way to beat him in their final two fights, too, including a fight so epic that boxing people simply shake their heads when asked what happened at the thrilla in manila.
“joe frazier wouldn’t back away from king kong,” foreman said.
across the ring, foreman was thinking one thing: please don’t let joe frazier get up.
western yell county added to districts in fiscal distress | 04.09.12 - 05:13 pm by the associated press associated press copyright 2012
three arrested for crow mountain, atkins burglaries | 04.06.12 - 02:56 pm by preston
letters to the editor (april 6, 2012) | 04.06.12 - 12:00 pm the courier your messenger for the river valley copyright 2012
cosell  screamed into his abc television microphone.
i spent some time talking to frazier earlier  this year as he reminisced about his career and his life.
shooting suspects granted bond | 04.10.12 - 12:00 pm by preston tolliver the courier your messenger for the river valley copyright 2012
and i said to myself ‘oh boy, he’s going to get me now,’”
this article | similar stories rylee's death now under federal review | 5 years ago associated press copyright 2012
ali found a way to beat him in their final two fights, too, including  a fight so epic that boxing people simply shake their heads when asked what  happened at the thrilla in manila.
joe calvin  | 5 months ago the courier your messenger for the  river valley copyright 2012
and he kept fighting for his rightful place in history until his death monday night in philadelphia at the age of 67.
i spent some time talking to frazier earlier this year as he reminisced about his career and his life.
the courier - your messenger for the river valley.
the associated press.
he would burn through all the riches he made in the ring,  ending up in an apartment over his gym in philadelphia.
this article | similar stories rylee's death now under federal review  | 5 years ago  associated press copyright 2012
frazier barely stood 5-foot-10, never weighed more than 205 or so.
arrest made in connection with thursday shooting | 04.08.12 - 01:17 am the courier your messenger for the river valley copyright 2012
contact us | about us | newsstands | subscriptions | advertising | support software powered by radiate media.
“maybe someday in heaven  he’ll have a chance to do it.”
in review: rylee family, rpd, sheriff's office still locked in  battle over death  | 5 years ago the courier your messenger for the  river valley copyright 2012
local obituaries politics/government education crime community faith state nation world business online features youth high school college
tim dahlberg is a national sports columnist for the associated press.
he fought ali the way he fought everyone, with his chin  planted on his opponent’s shoulder, because that was the only way he  could fight.
“but you have to know the times, the race struggle in america.
“that was the greatest thing that ever happened in my life.”
“joe could  never forgive him for that,” king said over the phone.
cosell screamed into his abc television microphone.
it changed the respect paid when people  would look at other people of color.”
that fight changed things for frazier, too.
“i can’t go nowhere where it’s not mentioned,”
razorbacks head coach bobby petrino had passenger on motorcycle ride | 04.05.12 - 05:09 pm by the associated press associated press copyright 2012
the 40th anniversary  of the fight of the century was looming, and frazier was more than happy to  talk about a memorable night long past.
and he couldn’t see out of the other.
get up frazier did, only to go down again and again.