and it wasn't a matter of boxing, they both took, you know, in fairness, a good beating that night, but one guy had something special inside, and i for one am glad that i was alive to see that moment, to see so much courage coming out of one person.
i came away from that evening thinking that even most of his most loyal fans have only partial concept of what an extraordinary and wonderful, giving man he is.
and i are (looking at simon block, from the british boxing board), but i like to take the advice of people who know, but this young man (indicating student speaker nicholas, the amateur boxer who spoke in the debate) is a fighter and i would take his viewpoint, certainly on this particular subject.
transcript of michael's remarks: thank you very much.
we wouldn't have barry mcguigan, wayne mccullough, michael carruth, steve collins, and other of other irish heroes, people that i would certainly consider to be irish heroes.
i believe it's  much better today than it was before, even with a few bum promoters, and i  would shudder to think what mike tyson would have done in his life had he not  had boxing to turn to, and cus d'amato, the guy who pulled him off the street  and helped him out...
i look back on that time as being a very good time in my  life, and you know, there's a lot said about the dangers of boxing, and you're  right.
i think the most chances ever taken in boxing is when you have eighteen or nineteen different governing bodies -- as a result you've a great fighter who's got a fabulous record, wants to pick up a few titles, goes down to this ubff and he fights a guy who maybe had nine fights and no real competition, so he's mismatched, but the promoter, in that particular instance, maybe doesn't care.
the most interesting part of that section of the evening, for me, was when the las vegas casino project came up, because when michael spoke about that it was very revealing.
when you're  in the boxing ring, the hardest, most difficult climb in the world is the steps  into that ring, it's the biggest mountain you will ever climb, the first time  you do that.
q: did boxing help you with contract negotiations for dancing at all?
i was  there when mcguigan fought (taylor?) in king's hall in belfast, and, you know,  my parents are irish
michael was all in black, looking very well, fit and tanned - i think he gets younger by the year, not older! - and lisa looked very elegant in a shiny black suit with belted jacket and pencil skirt to the knee, very dainty high-heeled shoes, and of course the wonderful tumble of blonde hair around her shoulders.
after the speeches, the vote was taken and the motion to ban boxing defeated beyond doubt!
one fight that intrigued me was the last fight between muhammad ali and joe frazier, mainly because it made me wonder about the mindset of both men, and the distance they had come in their lives and their careers, as fighters and as men.
all were interrupted save michael, who had the house  spellbound within seconds, though he appeared to be just casually talking,  delivering the speech as smoothly as though it were regular conversation, and  with no notes of any kind.
(big round of applause for this response) q: i've heard stories you're building some sort of casino and i just wondered how that's going, and does it mean that you're giving up the dancing and it's a new phase now?
and why  do we isolate boxing?
dublin correspondent:
i don't think they were at all informed about him beforehand, maybe they had rashly invited him thinking he would never come!
again, he was self-effacing, murmuring that he liked to  "play a little chess" (that had been suggested as one better channel  for young people's diversion!), and i was itching to jump up and tell them he  is a chess master, but of course i didn't!
and they're good pay-in.
yes, we've sold out to the last ticket, in advance, record time, so i'm delighted about that.
i asked if they had had a nice christmas and they said yes, it had been lovely, very relaxing, and it was so good to just stop and pause after all the travel of 2003, when they just seemed to be constantly jetlagged.
now, boxing, like other combative sports, has been around since the greeks and the romans and the games, and it's still around today.
he only got one thing wrong as far as i was concerned - he referred to himself as 'uneducated compared to you youngsters'.
i think that with any luck there'll be younger, smarter minds than me that will help bring it to fruition, but ireland deserves a place on that strip in las vegas, and...
the difference is  today they have to wear sixteen-ounce gloves, they don't fight with their bare  fists, there is precaution, there are doctors there -- i know it's not '
michael  was all in black, looking very well, fit and tanned - i think he gets younger  by the year, not older! - and lisa looked very elegant in a shiny black suit  with belted jacket and pencil skirt to the knee, very dainty high-heeled shoes,  and of course the wonderful tumble of blonde hair around her shoulders.
they didn't  turn to basketball, they wanted to box, and if we didn't have boxing we  wouldn't today have muhammad ali in that position, because he chose that  because he loved it.
i can understand why some people would want to ban boxing, because of the way it's perceived and the way it looks.
i certainly think there should be a super-heavyweight division today, and i certainly think as well there should be an over-thirty class, and an over-forty class for older fighters, rather than throwing them in with the young tigers, just to get eaten alive because they've a got a big name
i especially admired her pendant, a beautifully simple, classy little diamond studded puffed heart on a short white gold (or platinum?!)
there were a lot of irish people who  had no money that made their name, back to jack dempsey and people like that  who made great names for themselves, and made it to the top of the world with  boxing.
she is very  tall and incredibly slim - in a contest, i think the supermodels would run her  a poor second!
audience  member: - maybe sean (host) will do it?
the form  was that the speaker was left alone for three minutes (a bell marked the time),  then he could be questioned or commented to, and he spoke for a further five  minutes altogether.
it is so important that you're  prepared, so yes, you experience pain, that's the choice i made, i didn't quit  after my first fight, most fighters don't, of course -- but there's pain in  life, there's pain in everything.
ucd boxing debate at the celtic cafe michael flatley participates in ucd law society debate on boxing on st. patrick's day in 1998, sports writer pat bigold stated in an article  that when michael flatley exploded onto the scene, he personified a link  between two of an irishman's greatest passions: sports and the arts.
i had the pleasure of chatting to  lisa while he was signing, and she was so sweet, very natural and softly and  gently spoken, radiating the same warmth and sparkle from her eyes as michael  does.
michael: oh, that's a great one!
after the speeches, the vote was taken and the motion to ban boxing  defeated beyond doubt!
you're a fool today if you don't understand the business side of it as well, you need to protect yourself and believe in yourself, and only follow what's in your heart.
(much laughter from the audience.
that is certainly, you know, the wrong thing to do, so i did take -- i listened very carefully to what all the speakers had to say, and i would tend to agree that there are changes to be made, but please, i think it would be really wrong to consider banning boxing completely.
he was a very dignified  and eloquent gentleman and spoke very well and very informatively.
if you're in business, you look at this, look at the sheer numbers, it doesn't matter that one guy is hitting the other guy or how the death occurs, the death occurs.
boxing gave me confidence.
and they exist today the same as when i was a kid, whether you like it  or not you're going to be involved in some of these things from time to time,  or you're at least going to be around that kind of thing.
i don't know anything about debate, obviously, these other lads are much more proficient than you
he did try other things, but he ended up in boxing and he  was poetry in motion, in the sport that he loved.
(big round of applause for this response) q: i've heard stories you're building some sort of casino and i just  wondered how that's going, and does it mean that you're giving up the dancing  and it's a new phase now?
i didn't really give much thought, when my father dragged me off  to boxing lessons, whether or not it was going to be harming me or helping me,
i mean, i'm sure there are a lot more dangerous sports, even in  martial arts that i heard you talk about earlier.
q: have you any news about the show in south africa?
and if the  numbers are more in one sport than the other sport, then we need to back up and  ask ourselves, why are we not looking for a ban in those other sports?
boxing is not without controversy, due to the encouragement of intentional violence and the high risk of brain injury in the sport, and was the subject of a debate at the university college dublin's law society.
q: will you do a dance for us?
you need to focus and you need to have the picture in  your head, and whatever you decide in your own mind about boxing, or about your  own careers, if you hear of some young man today that has a dream to become the  next middleweight champion of the world, you should never deny him that dream  because he may not know any other dream, and whatever your dream is, it's  something that you should pursue to the end.
champion irish dancer michael flatley was also a golden gloves amateur boxing champion in his youth, and often attends the matches of those he admires in the sport.
and why do we isolate boxing?
i asked if they had had a  nice christmas and they said yes, it had been lovely, very relaxing, and it was
one fight that intrigued me was the last fight  between muhammad ali and joe frazier, mainly because it made me wonder about  the mindset of both men, and the distance they had come in their lives and  their careers, as fighters and as men.
and if the numbers are more in one sport than the other sport, then we need to back up and ask ourselves, why are we not looking for a ban in those other sports?
i tend to agree with things that were said on both sides tonight certainly,  but the truth is, people have basketballs to turn to, or chess, but they didn't  turn to that, because they really wanted to box, and freedom of choice is  freedom of choice, and that's a really important thing to remember.
(more laughter, and a  round of applause, not least from michael!)
i think the most chances ever taken in  boxing is when you have eighteen or nineteen different governing bodies -- as a  result you've a great fighter who's got a fabulous record, wants to pick up a  few titles, goes down to this ubff and he fights a guy who maybe had nine  fights and no real competition, so he's mismatched, but the promoter, in that  particular instance, maybe doesn't care.
on thursday, january 15th, 2004 i was at ucd (university college, dublin) to see michael presented with honourary life membership of the law society and take part in their boxing debate.
and it wasn't a matter of boxing, they both  took, you know, in fairness, a good beating that night, but one guy had  something special inside, and i for one am glad that i was alive to see that  moment, to see so much courage coming out of one person.
and we opened in taiwan this morning, and we'll be in dubai by the end of the week, so we're opening new territories, and you know, bad and all as we are, we're bringing irish culture to parts of the world that haven't experienced it.
he has seen many other countries represented by  their magnificent hotel/casino projects on the strip, and it has become his  'almost impossible dream' to put ireland there too, so all the irish companies  and artists can be showcased there with the world's best.
but if they thought that, they had no idea  what a soft touch he is with the aspirations of young people!
i came away from that evening thinking that  even most of his most loyal fans have only partial concept of what an  extraordinary and wonderful, giving man he is.
he added something else but the laughter  drowned it out.)
michael spoke at the end of the evening, after the other speakers, and was the only one no one interrupted as they could by the rules!
michael: thanks for the question.
he just loves to  help them and support them, and in fact he and lisa had flown in specially for  the evening and were flying straight on the new york early next morning.
if you run away from pain you can go quit  right now.
this is not about personal gain, business growth of his empire, or  celebrity, this is for the worldwide profile of ireland.
i had the pleasure of chatting to lisa while he was signing, and she was so sweet, very natural and softly and gently spoken, radiating the same warmth and sparkle from her eyes as michael does.
the  next three months will be very trying, but if we can sneak a day i'll go down  there and do what i can, but at least we're proud that we're giving some of the  profits to the right causes down there.
why did one guy stand up to fight that one last round and the  other guy just said 'no, i can't.'
boxing is not without controversy, due to the encouragement of  intentional violence and the high risk of brain injury in the sport, and was  the subject of a debate at the university college dublin's law society.
take the time, learn about it,  every aspect of it - i love every aspect of my business, you know, i've had the  hard times, i've been knocked down a few times as you all know, and i've made a  lot of mistakes, probably more than all of you together will ever make...
and i knew he would have good people there.
it is so important that you're prepared,
i don't know if i'll be giving up dancing, you know, time will tell, i'm sure, but it's closing up.
if you run away from pain you can go quit right now.
oh, the doctor's going to save everything!', obviously not, but we're all adults and we all understand that that can't be the case, you know.
the next three months will be very trying, but if we can sneak a day i'll go down there and do what i can, but at least we're proud that we're giving some of the profits to the right causes down there.
you have to have offence and defense, and the same thing is true in  my shows.
you know, it deserves that spot.
i know, that's the danger of the game.
i look back on that time as being a very good time in my life, and you know, there's a lot said about the dangers of boxing, and you're right.
i mean, i'm not a big fan of don king, for instance, and those kind of fellas.
you could have to face something a lot more dangerous  than just somebody's right hand when you hit the ground.
on thursday, january 15th, 2004 i was at ucd (university college, dublin)  to see michael presented with honourary life membership of the law society and  take part in their boxing debate.
when i spoke to michael i told him i was sorry not to be able to go to  new york for the pbs show, but friends of mine were going
but if they thought that, they had no idea what a soft touch he is with the aspirations of young people!
michael: i think the whole picture.
before the house was the proposal 'this house  would ban boxing!'
it is a dangerous sport, but there's a lot of dangerous sports.
they fought, really, incredibly well over the fourteen rounds, but when the bell rang for the fifteenth round, only one fighter got off his stool, so what was the difference?
michael flatley participates in ucd law society debate on boxing on st. patrick's day in 1998, sports writer pat bigold stated in an article that when michael flatley exploded onto the scene, he personified a link between two of an irishman's greatest passions: sports and the arts.
i mean it would be rude to out-stage one of our guests.'
as you jump out of that plane (sky-diving) you've made that decision then,  that you may get hurt.
and we opened in taiwan this morning,  and we'll be in dubai by the end of the week, so we're opening new territories,  and you know, bad and all as we are, we're bringing irish culture to parts of  the world that haven't experienced it.
there is some great quality to boxing, and whether you admit this or not, it does serve the minorities well.
at the end, the audience came down to have posters of the law society, scraps of paper, anything, signed, just to get to talk to him close-up!
q: i was just wondering, in terms of everything, you take an interest in all the aspects of performing and show life, dance, choreography, direction, production, what's your favourite part of it?
the difference is today they have to wear sixteen-ounce gloves, they don't fight with their bare fists, there is precaution, there are doctors there -- i know it's not '
and i truly believe he has only just begun to show the world what he can achieve.
read the full column by clicking here.
i think  that with any luck there'll be younger, smarter minds than me that will help  bring it to fruition, but ireland deserves a place on that strip in las vegas,  and...
i grew up in chicago, in a tough  neighbourhood.
and i knew he would  have good people there.
michael (still with a twinkle): no, i seemed to come out on the losing end  of those mostly - (again, much laughter!)
it's not just about one piece, or two pieces, and the same is true of boxing.
i mean, i'm sure there are a lot more dangerous sports, even in martial arts that i heard you talk about earlier.
click here for the celticcafeflatley mail list/discussion group, the largest on the web for fans of michael flatley, where one can find all the latest news and information relating to michael flatley and his professional endeavors, andhere for the celtic cafe's mikerocosm, the special section of our website devoted to michael flatley and his troupes.
and when you're in there, your manager isn't there, your mom and dad aren't there to rescue you, and you quickly learn that you must prepare if you're going to get into that boxing ring.
that is certainly, you know, the  wrong thing to do, so i did take -- i listened very carefully to what all the  speakers had to say, and i would tend to agree that there are changes to be  made, but please, i think it would be really wrong to consider banning boxing  completely.
q: i was just wondering, in terms of everything, you take an interest in  all the aspects of performing and show life, dance, choreography, direction,  production, what's your favourite part of it?
i mean, i've really argued with myself on this point.
take the time, learn about it, every aspect of it - i love every aspect of my business, you know, i've had the hard times, i've been knocked down a few times as you all know, and i've made a lot of mistakes, probably more than all of you together will ever make... (chuckles from the audience)...
i don't know if i'll be giving up dancing, you know, time  will tell, i'm sure, but it's closing up.
ahh, well i loved - there's many great  fights, from my point of view, hagler/hearns is one of the most exciting fights  i've ever seen, certainly...
- whether it was boxing or whatever it was for, what was the difference between muhammad ali and joe frazier?
you know, we did a lot of talking  tonight about chess, and i like to play a little bit of chess, and even though  i can't do it very well i've learned an awful lot about it, i've learned a lot  about life.
i was there when mcguigan fought (taylor?) in king's hall in belfast, and, you know, my parents are irish
excerpt: flatley possesses an undeniable appeal as a  throwback to a simpler era when men were men, and they weren't so worried about  their identity that they couldn't express themselves with style and artistry.
and in my business i'll take advice from people, but i  think it's important that you try everything, learn how it is, make sure you
audience member: - maybe sean (host) will do it?
i'm very uneducated compared to you youngsters.
as you jump out of that plane (sky-diving) you've made that decision then, that you may get hurt.
and although i'm sure the evening was really  very boring for her, she remained attentive throughout, and joined in the  laughter as much as michael, who seemed to genuinely enjoy it all thoroughly.
michael - with a mischievous grin: well at the time it seemed a lot safer!
i didn't really give much thought, when my father dragged me off to boxing lessons, whether or not it was going to be harming me or helping me,
i did miss an odd word that michael said because of that, and also because he speaks so softly the audience had to almost hold its breath to catch all he said - and that they did!
flatley does it with gusto and you can see the boxer's body english every time he steps on stage.
it became clear immediately to me 'why' he is doing it, which i think puzzles many people.
when you decide to step into the ring against another man, and you know that when you're there you're going to cause some damage, so is he, he's trying to take your head off, that's part of it.
it's kind of almost 'an  impossible dream', but you know nothing is impossible.
check out the fight choreography in lord of the dance where flatley, at 40-plus, makes you believe he could still go a strong five or six rounds.
his real joy is opening new worlds for upcoming generations; he has done it in dance, and now he is moving on to other areas.
he added something else but the laughter drowned it out.)
it was  a lovely gesture that they both came, and i think that had sunk in to the  organisers once they had met and talked to them, as the host of the evening  came in to apologise for the delay starting (due to a 'media circus' in the  hallway!) and said very warmly that he has just met and talked to michael and  what an extremely nice guy he was!
i grew up in chicago, in a tough neighbourhood.
but i do know that going to school every day i was in fist fights, and they're  no fun!
know your business, anyone that's going into the arts.
she is very tall and incredibly slim - in a contest, i think the supermodels would run her a poor second!
right down to the antagonistic facial expressions he casts at his arch-rival, the guy still looks every inch a fighter.
and they exist today the same as when i was a kid, whether you like it or not you're going to be involved in some of these things from time to time, or you're at least going to be around that kind of thing.
michael: i don't know how to dance, i never learned!
there were a lot of irish people who had no money that made their name, back to jack dempsey and people like that who made great names for themselves, and made it to the top of the world with boxing.
and about six or eight students spoke, plus guests michael  and a member of the british boxing board, simon block.
click here for the celticcafeflatley mail list/discussion  group, the largest on the web for fans of michael flatley, where one can find  all the latest news and information relating to michael flatley and his  professional endeavors, andhere for the celtic cafe's mikerocosm, the special section of our website devoted to michael flatley and his troupes.
all were interrupted save michael, who had the house spellbound within seconds, though he appeared to be just casually talking, delivering the speech as smoothly as though it were regular conversation, and with no notes of any kind.
it's not the business i  want to get into, i'm not a builder, and i'm not really a businessman per se,  although i can fake my way through most of it, but it's a dream, and even  though it's a daydream, it's a dream that i've had for a long time.
they fought, really, incredibly well  over the fourteen rounds, but when the bell rang for the fifteenth round, only  one fighter got off his stool, so what was the difference?
any kid who's ever had the word "footwork" drilled into him time and again ought to watch the "riverdance" or "lord of the dance" videotapes in which flatley performs to see how a boxer's feet can move.
you know, we did a lot of talking tonight about chess, and i like to play a little bit of chess, and even though i can't do it very well i've learned an awful lot about it, i've learned a lot about life.
when the event started, michael walked in, no "minders" in evidence, and sat with simon block at the back of the platform, and lisa took a front seat in the corner, also unaccompanied.
ahh, well i loved - there's many great fights, from my point of view, hagler/hearns is one of the most exciting fights i've ever seen, certainly...
i looked at the stats myself,  and just what you said about the people in the thousands in the different  sports and how many lives are lost, you're absolutely right, i looked at that  myself, but there's eighty deaths every single day in the united states from  handgun murders, and certainly that should take a lot more of our time.
i believe it's much better today than it was before, even with a few bum promoters, and i would shudder to think what mike tyson would have done in his life had he not had boxing to turn to, and cus d'amato, the guy who pulled him off the street and helped him out...
this is not about personal gain, business growth of his empire, or celebrity, this is for the worldwide profile of ireland.
it would be a much fairer game, as far as i'm concerned, if we brought it back to one governing body, and we had more weight classes.
perhaps they expected him to be flamboyant and boisterous, as if he were onstage!
you need to focus and you need to have the picture in your head, and whatever you decide in your own mind about boxing, or about your own careers, if you hear of some young man today that has a dream to become the next middleweight champion of the world, you should never deny him that dream because he may not know any other dream, and whatever your dream is, it's something that you should pursue to the end.
he gave, in my view, a superb demonstration of really professional public speaking, very quiet and calm, speaking slowly enough to be followed by everyone, and forming complete and natural sentences.
when you decide to step into the  ring against another man, and you know that when you're there you're going to  cause some damage, so is he, he's trying to take your head off, that's part of  it.
ann keller feature: bernadette price original web design: alexander servas university college dublin michael flatley, a one-time golden gloves boxing champion!
oh, the  doctor's going to save everything!', obviously not, but we're all adults and we  all understand that that can't be the case, you know.
his real joy is  opening new worlds for upcoming generations; he has done it in dance, and now  he is moving on to other areas.
i don't know,  i can't say.
i don't know anything about debate, obviously, these other lads are  much more proficient than you
it's not just about one piece, or two pieces, and the same is true  of boxing.
before the house was the proposal 'this house would ban boxing!'
why did one guy stand up to fight that one last round and the other guy just said 'no, i can't.'
i tend to agree with things that were said on both sides tonight certainly, but the truth is, people have basketballs to turn to, or chess, but they didn't turn to that, because they really wanted to box, and freedom of choice is freedom of choice, and that's a really important thing to remember.
but i learned from them, that's the key.
and in my business i'll take advice from people, but i think it's important that you try everything, learn how it is, make sure you know your business, anyone that's going into the arts.
it's not the business i want to get into, i'm not a builder, and i'm not really a businessman per se, although i can fake my way through most of it, but it's a dream, and even though it's a daydream, it's a dream that i've had for a long time.
they didn't turn to basketball, they wanted to box, and if we didn't have boxing we wouldn't today have muhammad ali in that position, because he chose that because he loved it.
click on images to enlarge michael and simon block, the secretary general of the british boxing board bbbofc.com michael with ucd students michael and his lovely fiancee lisa murphy first three photos copyrighted to unicorn entertainment, and the last two to annie keller.
finally, after one more photo call,  the theatre emptied, michael and lisa left with the evening's host and one or  two other people, and i and the friend who had come with me, headed out into  the hideously windy, dark and wet irish night and found our way to the car park  to go home!
he may not have a college degree, but he is  without doubt one of the most educated and cultured people i have ever met.
certainly the match-making in america, in my opinion, is suspect --
he and lisa both chatted  to all who came to them, and they must have been there near half an hour,  totally informal and delightfully relaxed.
flatley does it with gusto and you can see the boxer's body english
(chuckles from the audience)...
yet he conveyed his passion and energy just the same.
and i had so much pride bursting out of me i couldn't contain myself!
i know that's not specifically why we're here today, but there are more important things than this sort of sport, and i think, all in all, if you weigh up the balance, boxing has done a lot more good than it's done bad.
questions & answers at ucd debate: q: i'm  curious about how you made the changeover between boxing and dancing?
i looked at the stats myself, and just what you said about the people in the thousands in the different sports and how many lives are lost, you're absolutely right, i looked at that myself, but there's eighty deaths every single day in the united states from handgun murders, and certainly that should take a lot more of our time.
the form was that the speaker was left alone for three minutes (a bell marked the time), then he could be questioned or commented to, and he spoke for a further five minutes altogether.
dumb and all as i am, i learned from them, and i got back up
the  evening was not what was suggested by all the advertising, as i imagined a  large crowd after all the hype through the week, several snippets in the press,  even a tv announcement that morning, but the lecture theatre remained not  filled and i doubt there were more than 50 people present, including about ten  press photographers clicking away - not great for my little old tape recorder  as one was right in front of it!
and about six or eight students spoke, plus guests michael and a member of the british boxing board, simon block.
i appreciate you asking me here to speak, although i'm  not sure after hearing everything i've just heard that i can add anything  valuable to help you make your decision, but i'll do my best.
boxing gave  me confidence.
he may not have a college degree, but he is without doubt one of the most educated and cultured people i have ever met.
it would be a much  fairer game, as far as i'm concerned, if we brought it back to one governing  body, and we had more weight classes.
we  thank ann keller (annmargaretkeller.com) for the following report of the  evening.
sean: i don't like to...
i learned how to fight and it gave me a  little confidence on the inside, and i daresay it saved me in a lot of  different situations.
there is some great quality to boxing, and whether you admit this or  not, it does serve the minorities well.
after that  the audience were invited to ask questions, not just on boxing, and only then i  think they began to open up, realising this man had a lot more to share than  they had thought!
then the presentation was made, michael receiving the simple scroll as graciously and warmly as though it were an oscar!
we thank ann keller (annmargaretkeller.com) for the following report of the evening.
he has seen many other countries represented by their magnificent hotel/casino projects on the strip, and it has become his 'almost impossible dream' to put ireland there too, so all the irish companies and artists can be showcased there with the world's best.
sugar ray leonard, one of the  greatest businessmen in america today, was a champion, superstar boxer, and  there's nothing wrong with his brain, he's a sharp guy.
michael spoke at the end of the evening, after the other speakers,  and was the only one no one interrupted as they could by the rules!
it is a dangerous  sport, but there's a lot of dangerous sports.
certainly the match-making in america,  in my opinion, is suspect --
i appreciate you asking me here to speak, although i'm not sure after hearing everything i've just heard that i can add anything valuable to help you make your decision, but i'll do my best.
finally, after one more photo call, the theatre emptied, michael and lisa left with the evening's host and one or two other people, and i and the friend who had come with me, headed out into the hideously windy, dark and wet irish night and found our way to the car park to go home!
i don't think  they were at all informed about him beforehand, maybe they had rashly invited  him thinking he would never come!
he wants to pick up the belt and get  the big money fight.
and although i'm sure the evening was really very boring for her, she remained attentive throughout, and joined in the laughter as much as michael, who seemed to genuinely enjoy it all thoroughly.
he thanked me for coming to that night, and said he was  looking forward to meeting everyone at the pbs show.
i  especially admired her pendant, a beautifully simple, classy little diamond  studded puffed heart on a short white gold (or platinum?!)
when i spoke to michael i told him i was sorry not to be able to go to new york for the pbs show, but friends of mine were going
so good to just stop and pause after all the travel of 2003, when they just  seemed to be constantly jetlagged.
the most interesting part  of that section of the evening, for me, was when the las vegas casino project  came up, because when michael spoke about that it was very revealing.
it had been a most unusual evening, which i had to play the tape of  to believe it really happened!
if you're in business,  you look at this, look at the sheer numbers, it doesn't matter that one guy is  hitting the other guy or how the death occurs, the death occurs.
i wonder where i would have been today if i'd just held  grudges against the guys who used to bloody my nose going to school, if i  didn't face the music, go in and learn from a professional, how to defend  myself against someone who was bigger and stronger, and come out and feel like  a champion?
he is so passionate  about promoting ireland well, and giving its people new opportunities on the  world stage in every area.
yeah, you know my schedule doesn't permit for me to go down there right now, i've to go to new york tomorrow morning and do a lot of stuff.
(more laughter, and a round of applause, not least from michael!)
you could have to face something a lot more dangerous than just somebody's right hand when you hit the ground.
and when you're in there, your manager isn't there, your mom and  dad aren't there to rescue you, and you quickly learn that you must prepare if  you're going to get into that boxing ring.
he gave, in my view, a superb demonstration of  really professional public speaking, very quiet and calm, speaking slowly  enough to be followed by everyone, and forming complete and natural sentences.
but i will say, from a  young man's point of view, and i particularly admired nicholas here, because  here's a young man who's actually had the experience, he's been there, he can  actually talk from (the point of view of) a man who's been in the ring and  knows the feeling.
the evening was not what was suggested by all the advertising, as i imagined a large crowd after all the hype through the week, several snippets in the press, even a tv announcement that morning, but the lecture theatre remained not filled and i doubt there were more than 50 people present, including about ten press photographers clicking away - not great for my little old tape recorder as one was right in front of it!
check out the fight choreography in lord of the dance  where flatley, at 40-plus, makes you believe he could still go a strong five or  six rounds.
but i will say, from a young man's point of view, and i particularly admired nicholas here, because here's a young man who's actually had the experience, he's been there, he can actually talk from (the point of view of) a man who's been in the ring and knows the feeling.
so yes, you experience pain, that's the choice i made, i didn't quit after my first fight, most fighters don't, of course -- but there's pain in life, there's pain in everything.
champion irish dancer michael flatley was also a golden gloves amateur  boxing champion in his youth, and often attends the matches of those he admires  in the sport.
but i do know that going to school every day i was in fist fights, and they're no fun!
he's put in the hours, he's done the training.
the following three to jeremy craine.
yeah, you know my schedule doesn't permit for me to go down there  right now, i've to go to new york tomorrow morning and do a lot of stuff.
and i truly believe he has only  just begun to show the world what he can achieve.
all the other nationalities seem to be represented there, and i don't see why we shouldn't be represented there and my thought is that people are going to gamble anyhow, they're going to go there for fun anyhow, and i think it's not wrong that ireland should have a part of that and play for it.
i mean, i'm not a big fan of don king, for  instance, and those kind of fellas.
all the other nationalities seem to be  represented there, and i don't see why we shouldn't be represented there and my  thought is that people are going to gamble anyhow, they're going to go there  for fun anyhow, and i think it's not wrong that ireland should have a part of  that and play for it.
obviously he was not what they expected.
it became  clear immediately to me 'why' he is doing it, which i think puzzles many  people.
he did try other things, but he ended up in boxing and he was poetry in motion, in the sport that he loved.
i was a small, skinny white kid in a mostly black and mexican  neighbourhood, and i got picked on.
and i had so much pride bursting out of me i couldn't  contain myself!
ann keller original web design: alexander servas university college dublin
it's kind of almost 'an impossible dream', but you know nothing is impossible.
he would emerge as a champion in any given role that he did, but thank god he had somewhere to make use of his talents, and i think that was one of the greatest fights ever.
and i are (looking at simon block, from the  british boxing board), but i like to take the advice of people who know, but  this young man (indicating student speaker nicholas, the amateur boxer who  spoke in the debate) is a fighter and i would take his viewpoint, certainly on  this particular subject.
but for my money, i think boxing is good!
again, he was self-effacing, murmuring that he liked to "play a little chess" (that had been suggested as one better channel for young people's diversion!), and i was itching to jump up and tell them he is a chess master, but of course i didn't!
dumb  and all as i am, i learned from them, and i got back up
another guest, a doctor, was supposed to speak also, but didn't get there.
he wants to pick up the belt and get the big money fight.
after that the audience were invited to ask questions, not just on boxing, and only then i think they began to open up, realising this man had a lot more to share than they had thought!
excerpt: flatley possesses an undeniable appeal as a throwback to a simpler era when men were men, and they weren't so worried about their identity that they couldn't express themselves with style and artistry.
he was a very dignified and eloquent gentleman and spoke very well and very informatively.
it had been a most unusual evening, which i had to play the tape of to believe it really happened!
you're a fool today if  you don't understand the business side of it as well, you need to protect  yourself and believe in yourself, and only follow what's in your heart.
there's that old saying that you have to share, everyone needs to  have their input into the show, and the truth is it would be a dog's breakfast  if i'd let that happen.
i did miss an odd word that michael said  because of that, and also because he speaks so softly the audience had to  almost hold its breath to catch all he said - and that they did!
i was a small, skinny white kid in a mostly black and mexican neighbourhood, and i got picked on.
- but i have other qualities!
sugar ray leonard, one of the greatest businessmen in america today, was a champion, superstar boxer, and there's nothing wrong with his brain, he's a sharp guy.
he only got one thing  wrong as far as i was concerned - he referred to himself as 'uneducated  compared to you youngsters'.
right down to the antagonistic facial expressions he casts at his  arch-rival, the guy still looks every inch a fighter.
another  guest, a doctor, was supposed to speak also, but didn't get there.
perhaps they expected him to be flamboyant and boisterous, as if he were  onstage!
i learned how to fight and it gave me a little confidence on the inside, and i daresay it saved me in a lot of different situations.
he is so passionate about promoting ireland well, and giving its people new opportunities on the world stage in every area.
you have to have offence and defense, and the same thing is true in my shows.
questions & answers at ucd debate: q: i'm curious about how you made the changeover between boxing and dancing?
i certainly think there should be a  super-heavyweight division today, and i certainly think as well there should be  an over-thirty class, and an over-forty class for older fighters, rather than  throwing them in with the young tigers, just to get eaten alive because they've  a got a big name and they're good pay-in.
i can understand why some people would want to ban boxing, because of the  way it's perceived and the way it looks.
i don't know, i can't say.
i'm very  uneducated compared to you youngsters.
yes, we've sold out to the last ticket, in advance, record time,  so i'm delighted about that.
now, boxing, like other combative sports, has been around since the greeks  and the romans and the games, and it's still around today.
q: which was the greatest fight you've ever seen?
then the presentation was made, michael receiving the  simple scroll as graciously and warmly as though it were an oscar!
would i have even tackled any of the stuff i tackled?
michael (still with a twinkle): no, i seemed to come out on the losing end of those mostly - (again, much laughter!)
any kid who's ever had the word "footwork"  drilled into him time and again ought to watch the "riverdance" or  "lord of the dance" videotapes in which flatley performs to see how a  boxer's feet can move.
we wouldn't have barry  mcguigan, wayne mccullough, michael carruth, steve collins, and other of other  irish heroes, people that i would certainly consider to be irish heroes.
i wonder where i would have been today if i'd just held grudges against the guys who used to bloody my nose going to school, if i didn't face the music, go in and learn from a professional, how to defend myself against someone who was bigger and stronger, and come out and feel like a champion?
at the end, the  audience came down to have posters of the law society, scraps of paper,  anything, signed, just to get to talk to him close-up!
he just loves to help them and support them, and in fact he and lisa had flown in specially for the evening and were flying straight on the new york early next morning.
every  time he steps on stage.
he and lisa both chatted to all who came to them, and they must have been there near half an hour, totally informal and delightfully relaxed.
i know  that's not specifically why we're here today, but there are more important  things than this sort of sport, and i think, all in all, if you weigh up the  balance, boxing has done a lot more good than it's done bad.
there's that old saying that you have to share, everyone needs to have their input into the show, and the truth is it would be a dog's breakfast if i'd let that happen.
and i figured a way through it.
and what about the invitation to participate?
it was a lovely gesture that they both came, and i think that had sunk in to the organisers once they had met and talked to them, as the host of the evening came in to apologise for the delay starting (due to a 'media circus' in the hallway!) and said very warmly that he has just met and talked to michael and what an extremely nice guy he was!
when you're in the boxing ring, the hardest, most difficult climb in the world is the steps into that ring, it's the biggest mountain you will ever climb, the first time you do that.
and i figured a way  through it.
- whether it was  boxing or whatever it was for, what was the difference between muhammad ali and  joe frazier?
when the event started, michael walked in, no  "minders" in evidence, and sat with simon block at the back of the  platform, and lisa took a front seat in the corner, also unaccompanied.
he would emerge as a  champion in any given role that he did, but thank god he had somewhere to make  use of his talents, and i think that was one of the greatest fights ever.
i  mean it would be rude to out-stage one of our guests.'
he thanked me for coming to that night, and said he was looking forward to meeting everyone at the pbs show.