ali had  meanwhile resumed boxing in 1970 and had defeated two other title contenders,  but in 1971, he lost a 15-round decision to the heavyweight champion, joe  frazier.
for nearly three years ali fought other title contenders, including  jerry quarry, floyd patterson, joe bugner, and ken norton.
in 1984 it was  confirmed that ali was suffering from a series of symptoms variously known as  "punch drunk" syndrome, or chronic hazard of boxing; it is  characterized by parkinson-like symptoms; slurred speech, facial immobility,  poor balance, and difficulty in walking.
ali often proclaimed his invincibility in poetic verse and made the claim "i am the greatest!"
he has since maintained a commitment to helping various community service causes around the world.
ali was selected to light the olympic flame at the 1996 games in atlanta, georgia.
the u.s. supreme court ultimately reversed this conviction in 1971.
finally ali won a unanimous decision over frazier in 1974 that led to his meeting with the new champion, george foreman, later that year.
he returned to fight world boxing council champion larry holmes in 1980  and trevor berbick of canada in 1981 but lost both fights.
he was  an african-american professional boxer, the first boxer to win the heavyweight  championship three separate times.
ali regained the wba title from spinks seven months later, thus becoming  the first boxer to win the heavyweight championship three times.
after defending his title successfully six times, he lost it to leon spinks in 1978, in a split decision.
gifted with unusually fast reflexes, excellent hand-leg coordination, and finely honed defensive skills, ali successfully defended his title nine times from 1965 to 1967 and was universally recognized as champion after out pointing world boxing association (wba) champion ernie terrell in 15 rounds in 1967.
ali had meanwhile resumed boxing in 1970 and had defeated two other title contenders, but in 1971, he lost a 15-round decision to the heavyweight champion, joe frazier.
reference: boxing album: an illustrated history by peter brooke bell smithmark publisher, 1995 isbn 0831748109 to become a professional athleteperson / name: ali, muhammad website design by nada advertising
muhammad ali, one of the best boxers ever.
as an  amateur boxer, he was noticed in 1960 by winning the amateur athletic union  light heavyweight and golden gloves heavyweight championships.
gifted with unusually fast reflexes, excellent hand-leg coordination, and  finely honed defensive skills, ali successfully defended his title nine times  from 1965 to 1967 and was universally recognized as champion after out pointing  world boxing association (wba) champion ernie terrell in 15 rounds in 1967.
he has since maintained a commitment to helping various community service  causes around the world.
he turned professional soon afterward and became world heavyweight champion by knocking out sonny liston in seven rounds in 1964.
he won a gold  medal in the light heavyweight division at the 1960 olympic games in rome.
his eighth-round knockout of foreman  regained for ali the undisputed world heavyweight title.
in 1964 he joined the nation of islam adopting a muslim name and in 1967 he refused, on religious grounds, to submit to induction into the armed forces.
ali was selected to light the olympic flame at the  1996 games in atlanta, georgia.
he returned to fight world boxing council champion larry holmes in 1980 and trevor berbick of canada in 1981 but lost both fights.
reference: boxing album: an illustrated history by peter brooke
he was subsequently convicted of violating the selective service act and in consequence barred from the ring and stripped of his title.
after defending his  title successfully six times, he lost it to leon spinks in 1978, in a split  decision.
his eighth-round knockout of foreman regained for ali the undisputed world heavyweight title.
he is also an international humanitarian and ambassador of good will.
finally ali won a  unanimous decision over frazier in 1974 that led to his meeting with the new  champion, george foreman, later that year.
ali regained the wba title from spinks seven months later, thus becoming the first boxer to win the heavyweight championship three times.
in 1979 he announced his retirement, at that point having lost only three decisions in 59 fights.
muhammad ali date:  sat, 1942-01-17 *on this dates registry we mark the birth of muhammad ali in 1942.
he was subsequently convicted of  violating the selective service act and in consequence barred from the ring and  stripped of his title.
he was an african-american professional boxer, the first boxer to win the heavyweight championship three separate times.
as an amateur boxer, he was noticed in 1960 by winning the amateur athletic union light heavyweight and golden gloves heavyweight championships.
he  turned professional soon afterward and became world heavyweight champion by  knocking out sonny liston in seven rounds in 1964.
*on this dates registry we mark the birth of muhammad ali in 1942.
cassius marcellus clay (his name at birth) is from louisville, kentucky.
in 1964 he joined the nation of  islam adopting a muslim name and in 1967 he refused, on religious grounds, to  submit to induction into the armed forces.
ali  often proclaimed his invincibility in poetic verse and made the claim "i  am the greatest!"
he won a gold medal in the light heavyweight division at the 1960 olympic games in rome.
for nearly three years ali fought other title contenders, including jerry quarry, floyd patterson, joe bugner, and ken norton.
in 1984 it was confirmed that ali was suffering from a series of symptoms variously known as "punch drunk" syndrome, or chronic hazard of boxing; it is characterized by parkinson-like symptoms; slurred speech, facial immobility, poor balance, and difficulty in walking.
in 1979 he  announced his retirement, at that point having lost only three decisions in 59  fights.