motion captured mills lane as referee.
we were pummeled several times by sugar ray leonard  before we realized that he was probably one of the best fighters in the game  since he's the mo-cap model.
knockout kings on the psx was a better than average game and if the n64 port is at least that good, then fans of the big n should be pleased.
heavyweight greats like joe frazier and muhammad ali are all there along with their middleweight and lightweight counterparts like sugar ray leonard and oscar de la hoya.
the facts: interactive training mode to learn moves and techniques.
nintendo 64 release date: october 3, 1999 more info also on: ps genre: sports publisher: electronic arts developer: black ops t for teen: animated violence
this article - more nintendo 64 previews - latest nintendo 64 news, reviews, and videos recommended stories and more hottest nintendo 64 previews tony hawk's pro skater 2 tony hawk's pro skater 2, the official sequel to last...
the game will feature 25 great fighters from  history, while the psx version of knockout kings 2000 will have over 50 boxers.
2000 guide at ign - ign.com: - editorial staff - review guide - send us news - sign up for email updates sign up for the ign games newsletter - international: - australia - germany - ireland - united kingdom - united states ign entertainment games sites - about us - advertise - contact us - press - careers - ign - gamespy - gamespy arena - gamespy comrade - gamespy technology - fileplanet - ve3d - game sites more ign entertainment sites - 1up - mycheats - teamxbox - gamestats - gametab - gamevideos - gamermetrics - giga.de popular on myspace - askmen - ugo - actress archives - celebrity wonder - the rush - music videos - movie trailers - myspace layouts - songs - battle: los angeles
new sound features like new entrance music, crowd cheers and taunts and  the sounds of landing punches.
instead, knockout kings is  as close as we'll get to a boxing simulator as players will likely have to bob,  weave, duck, dodge, pick and choose their opportunities for attack wisely to  succeed.
when we tried to soften up the opponent with jabs and straight punches with the intent of finishing him off with a flurry of combos, ray leonard hit our boxers with a variety of punches that can only be described as relentless and devastating.
in fact, if you want a boxing title it has to be.
all is not lost, however, since knockout kings  for the psx was a challenging and well conceived game.
the game runs smoothly and the motion capturing session with sugar ray leonard seems to have really paid off.
learning to handle the game's a.i. should be the initial challenge that makes  the game fun.
september 13, 1999 september 14, 1999 september 14, 1999 byign staff latest images view all 60 images » for boxing fans, it must be a case of "better late than never" as ea sports finally delivers a boxing game for n64.
- new sound features like new entrance music, crowd cheers and taunts and the sounds of landing punches.
you don't want to rely on someone like butterbean's quickness anymore than you'd want to rely on an evander holyfield's punching power.
a  variety of aggressive and passive approaches to fighting the computer all ended  with our fighters, of all weight classes, laying down for a canvas nap.
in fact, knockout kings  may end up looking and playing better than its psx cousin, thanks to the n64's  3d capabilities.
whether it's a thunderous super  punch from your favorite fighter or re-creating a classic matchup between two  heroes of the sport, knockout kings tries to have a little something for  everyone.
enhanced create-a-boxer.
learning to handle the game's a.i. should be the initial challenge that makes the game fun.
optional: write a full review around the network - knockout kings 2000 at ign - knockout kings 2000 at gamespy - knockout kings 2000 at gamestats - knockout kings
new boxer specific moves like sugar ray leonard's bolo punch.
hardcore fight fans would flip at the chance to guide young guns like ike quartery and david tua to the title or redeem the careers of not-so-greats like earnie shavers or sonny liston.
while many names are unconfirmed for the n64, the two systems should have more than a few boxers in common.
if you'd rather make your own mark on the boxing world, you can create your own customized fighter and turn him loose on the greatest fighters of all time as you try to bring home a title.
a variety of aggressive and passive approaches to fighting the computer all ended with our fighters, of all weight classes, laying down for a canvas nap.
- slugfest mode where any fighter can fight any other fighter regardless of weight, with no ref.
even though n64  fans will be a year behind again, the 2 player mode alone will make it a  popular game to have at a party.
when  we tried to soften up the opponent with jabs and straight punches with the  intent of finishing him off with a flurry of combos, ray leonard hit our boxers  with a variety of punches that can only be described as relentless and  devastating.
mlb 12: the show (ps3) 4.
outlook: knockout kings 2000 should be a welcome addition to an n64 player's sports library.
september 13, 1999 september 14, 1999 september 14, 1999 byign staff latest images view all 60 images » for boxing fans, it must be a case of "better late than never" as  ea sports finally delivers a boxing game for n64.
casual boxing fans will feel drawn to the variety of legendary fighters  they can choose.
slugfest mode where any fighter can fight any other fighter regardless of  weight, with no ref.
- enhanced create-a-boxer.
the controls are simple enough but the learning curve is steep enough to  quickly frustrate you.
continue to » learn how to disable this ad » ign entertainment:ign| 1up| gamespy| fileplanet| gamestats| ugo| askmen| ign pro league ign ign video - - my ign - xbox 360 - browse xbox 360 games - reviews & top games - upcoming games - all xbox 360 games » - xbox 360 news & updates - top stories - previews - news - videos - images - all xbox 360 updates - xbox 360 game help - ign game guides - reader walkthroughs - cheats & codes - xbox 360 community - message boards - blogs - xbox live - xbox live
it's not a 3d figher, so players will have to forget about throwing fireballs
the trick to the game is learning when to throw what punch and resist the  urge to just stand toe to toe and slug it out in a button mashing frenzy.
we were pummeled several times by sugar ray leonard before we realized that he was probably one of the best fighters in the game since he's the mo-cap model.
even though n64 fans will be a year behind again, the 2 player mode alone will make it a popular game to have at a party.
the game will feature 25 great fighters from history, while the psx version of knockout kings 2000 will have over 50 boxers.
- new boxer specific moves like sugar ray leonard's bolo punch.
derby stallion 64 (import) dr. mario 64 pokemon stadium 2 aidyn chronicles: the first mage connections for knockout kings 2000 (n64) popular games in this genre: 1.
by continuing past this page, and by your continued use of this site, you agree to be bound by and abide by theuser agreement.
the other news is thatknockout kings 2000 will be a port of the best selling playstation version of the game.
home - all xbox live updates - xbox live games - ps3 - browse ps3 games - reviews & top games - upcoming games - all ps3 games
- train in famous gyms around the world.
imagine having alexis arguello and  aaron pryor face off again, or putting the only blemish on rocky marciano's  perfect 49-0 record or even have your own holyfield-lennox lewis rematch for  way less than it would cost on pay-per-view.
fifa soccer 11 (x360) popular games on this platform: 1.
outlook: knockout kings 2000 should be a welcome addition to an n64  player's sports library.
the facts: - interactive training mode to learn moves and techniques.
- fight in world famous arenas.
knockout kings on the psx was a better than average game and if the n64 port is  at least that good, then fans of the big n should be pleased.
the nine fighters initially available to you are recognizable although we had a little problem when muhammad ali came out looking a lot like forrest whitaker as jefferson in fast times at ridgemont high.
the analog stick moves the fighter around the  ring, the a and b buttons are right and left hand punches, the c buttons each  throw a different combination, the r button in conjunction with the a and b  buttons delivers an extra powerful punch and the z trigger comined with the  analog stick gives you a variety of defensive and evasive moves to keep from  getting creamed.
all is not lost, however, since knockout kings for the psx was a challenging and well conceived game.
we became quite good at that.
the legend of zelda: ocarina of time (n64) 2.
whether it's a thunderous super punch from your favorite fighter or re-creating a classic matchup between two heroes of the sport, knockout kings tries to have a little something for everyone.
super mario 64 (n64) 3.
heavyweight greats like joe frazier and muhammad ali are all  there along with their middleweight and lightweight counterparts like sugar ray  leonard and oscar de la hoya.
knockout kings 2000 should do an admirable job  of filling the boxing void until the firstoriginal title comes along.
the game will remind some ofevander holyfield's real deal boxing for the genesis except this time you can see the fighters' whole bodies along with most of the ring in an accurate 3d environment.
loading posts... most recent contributions forknockout kings 2000:
the game runs smoothly and the motion capturing session with sugar ray  leonard seems to have really paid off.
hardcore fight fans would flip at the chance to  guide young guns like ike quartery and david tua to the title or redeem the  careers of not-so-greats like earnie shavers or sonny liston.
copyright 1996-2012, ign entertainment, inc. - support - privacy policy - user agreement - rss feeds - adchoices
new face wrap technology for authentic looking fighters.
- new face wrap technology for authentic looking fighters.
- motion captured mills lane as referee.
that's the good news.
- downloadable game guides - 3ds - browse 3ds & ds games - reviews & top games - upcoming games - all 3ds & ds games » - 3ds & ds news & updates - top stories - previews - news - videos - images - all 3ds & ds updates - 3ds & ds game help - ign game guides - reader walkthroughs - cheats & codes - 3ds & ds community - message boards - blogs - vita - browse ps vita games - reviews & top games - upcoming games - all ps vita games » - ps vita news & updates - top stories - previews - news - videos - images - all ps vita updates - ps vita community - message boards - blogs - iphone - browse wireless games - reviews - news - previews - all wireless games » - images - videos - all latest updates » - wireless community - message boards - blogs - reviews - recently reviewed - all recent reviews » - upcoming - top upcoming games - all upcoming games » - news - latest headlines - all top stories | all latest updates » - videos - video series - daily fix - ign_strategize - rewind theatre - jace hall show - ign hype - all video series » - trailers and clips - game previews - game reviews - movie trailers - movie reviews - ign originals - all videos » - submit your videos - guides & cheats - movies - browse movies - reviews - trailers - news - release dates - all videos - games to film - all latest updates - all movies » - dvd & blu-ray - blu-ray reviews - dvd reviews - upcoming blu-ray - upcoming dvds - blu-ray home or dvd home - community - message boards - podcasts - blogs - tv - latest updates - reviews - previews - news - clips & videos - tv listings - all tv shows » - dvd & blu-ray - blu-ray reviews - dvd reviews - upcoming blu-ray - upcoming dvds - blu-ray home or dvd home - community - message boards - podcasts - tech - xbox 360 - ps3 - ps vita - 3ds - wii u - ipad - iphone - ipod - android - win phone 7 - pc - mac - home theater - lifestyle - community - message boards - blogs - comics - latest updates - all comics - reviews - news - previews - features - community - message boards - podcasts - » - more games - free games - mobile games - game sites - playstation 2 - all platforms » - more ign sites - gear - music - stars - community and ign membership - all boards - all blogs - all podcasts - ign accounts - ign prime - tim & eric signed poster giveaway top wii deus ex wiki top ps3 boss fights big n fans top games mi:4 review black widow gamer gifts sherlock review katrina law dark knight comic book tv sunny finale angry tv finale review new spartacus sp's best games video babeology iphone comics myign ▼ game on read these now: ► entertain us hot stories.
a crowning feature of the game should be the great fights mode where you can relive classic matchups of the past.
knockout kings will have plenty of arcade action for n64 owners and,  hopefully, enough realism for boxing fans.
the game will remind some ofevander  holyfield's real deal boxing for the genesis except this time you can see  the fighters' whole bodies along with most of the ring in an accurate 3d  environment.
you don't want to rely on someone like butterbean's quickness anymore  than you'd want to rely on an evander holyfield's punching power.
if you're not old enough to remember duran-leonard or spinks-holmes then watch these new movies.
the analog stick moves the fighter around the ring, the a and b buttons are right and left hand punches, the c buttons each throw a different combination, the r button in conjunction with the a and b buttons delivers an extra powerful punch and the z trigger comined with the analog stick gives you a variety of defensive and evasive moves to keep from getting creamed.
major league baseball 2k12 (x360) 2.
loading contributions... game details knockout kings 2000 knockout kings 2000 knockout kings 2000 - published by: electronic arts - published by: electronic arts - published by: electronic arts - developed by: black ops - developed by: black ops - developed by: black ops - genre: sports - number of players: 1-2 - release date: us: october 3, 1999 japan: unreleased - release date: europe: unreleased - release date: australia: unreleased - msrp: $28.99 - t for teen: animated violence - also available on: playstation 6.7 ign score "okay" 6.7 press score - 5 ratings 7.2 reader score -187
the trick to the game is learning when to throw what punch and resist the urge to just stand toe to toe and slug it out in a button mashing frenzy.
along the way you'll be able to fight in real  life arenas like new york's madison square garden.
thankfully, ea sports threw in a recovery mechanism for when you  get knocked down, where you wiggle the analog stick back and forth with all  your might to increase your fighter's health.
the legend of zelda: majora's mask (n64) 4.
thankfully, ea sports threw in a recovery mechanism for when you get knocked down, where you wiggle the analog stick back and forth with all your might to increase your fighter's health.
imagine having alexis arguello and aaron pryor face off again, or putting the only blemish on rocky marciano's perfect 49-0 record or even have your own holyfield-lennox lewis rematch for way less than it would cost on pay-per-view.
train in famous gyms around the world.
► ign tv updates so much to know: ► exclusive stuff we'll email you!
while many names are unconfirmed for the n64, the two systems should have more  than a few boxers in common.
the  other news is thatknockout kings 2000 will be a port of the best selling  playstation version of the game.
just as in real  life, each boxer will have their own unique strengths and weaknesses to contend  with.
instead, knockout kings is as close as we'll get to a boxing simulator as players will likely have to bob, weave, duck, dodge, pick and choose their opportunities for attack wisely to succeed.
more nintendo 64 previews latest nintendo 64 news, reviews, and videos share
hot shots golf: open tee 2 (psp) 3.
the nine fighters initially available to you are recognizable  although we had a little problem when muhammad ali came out looking a lot like  forrest whitaker as jefferson in fast times at ridgemont high.
if you're not old enough to remember duran-leonard or spinks-holmes then  watch these new movies.
if you'd  rather make your own mark on the boxing world, you can create your own  customized fighter and turn him loose on the greatest fighters of all time as  you try to bring home a title.
[but there is a super punch you can use].
just as in real life, each boxer will have their own unique strengths and weaknesses to contend with.
perfect dark (n64) 5.
fight in world famous arenas.
in fact, knockout kings may end up looking and playing better than its psx cousin, thanks to the n64's 3d capabilities.
» - ps3 news & updates - top stories - previews - news - videos - images - all ps3 updates - ps3 game help - ign game guides - reader walkthroughs - cheats & codes - ps3 community - message boards - blogs - playstation network - psn game reviews - upcoming psn games - all psn games - wii - browse wii games - reviews & top games - upcoming games - all wii games » - wii news & updates - top stories - previews - news - videos - images - all wii updates - wii game help - ign game guides - reader walkthroughs - cheats & codes - wii community - message boards - blogs - pc - browse pc games - reviews & top games - upcoming games - all pc games » - pc news & updates - top stories - previews - news - videos - images - all pc updates - pc game help - ign game guides - reader walkthroughs - cheats & codes - pc community - message boards - blogs - ign prime - indie pc game of the month - 15% off all pc games!
it's not a 3d figher, so players will have to forget about throwing  fireballs
for more info visit the knockout kings 2000 profile » game highlights review videos images guide walkthroughs cheats all articles knockout kings 2000
knockout kings will have plenty of arcade action for n64 owners and, hopefully, enough realism for boxing fans.
knockout kings 2000 should do an admirable job of filling the boxing void until the firstoriginal title comes along.
casual boxing fans will feel drawn to the variety of legendary fighters they can choose.
a crowning feature of the game should be the great fights mode where you  can relive classic matchups of the past.
the controls are simple enough but the learning curve is steep enough to quickly frustrate you.
along the way you'll be able to fight in real life arenas like new york's madison square garden.