so began the life of muhammad ali, who celebrates his  70th birthday on january 17, 2012.
there is no doubt that he influenced me as a fighter because of the things that he did inside and outside the ring.
he’d meet all 200 school kids and sign 200 autographs, often with a kid on his lap.
i can say that he had a hand in making me what i am today.”
joe  martin, a white louisville policeman, told him he had better learn to fight,  and in his spare time, took ali under his wing and taught him the ropes.
he said, “absolutely, i’m with you.”
that was just his personality to be so giving of his time.
but what was so incredible about ali was all the courageous and selfless  things he did beyond boxing.
in 1975, i called ali to talk to him about the campaign i was doing for rubin “hurricane” carter, whose book convinced me that this was an innocent man in the slammer.
in 1975, i called ali to talk to him about the  campaign i was doing for rubin “hurricane” carter, whose book  convinced me that this was an innocent man in the slammer.
website design by jacob tyler
ali literally stopped doing a million things to help  someone—a fellow fighter—get out of jail.
it seriously got to the point that  when i saw a school, i’d think, ‘oh my god, here we go again.
he is  also a congressman in his native philippines where he is hailed as “the  national fist.”
by military press on january 17, 2012 at 9:54 am ali landing a shot on opponent joe frazier, manila, 1975.
although i was not yet born when he fought the very best, i learned from watching his fights on television and the stories that i heard of how great he truly was during his prime.
when the referee raised his arm in victory, ali shouted the iconic words that would become a self-fulfilling prophecy: “i’m gonna be the greatest of all time!”
his beautiful mother, odessa clay, called her son “g-g” for the rest of her life, and years later, ali would say, “after i won the golden gloves, i told mama that from the very beginning, i was trying to say, ‘golden gloves.’”
leave a comment cancel reply discussions
i can say that he had a hand in making me what i am  today.”
nobody can doubt his achievements in the ring.
ali literally stopped doing a million things to help someone—a fellow fighter—get out of jail.
after the bike was stolen, ali ran to  the police station threatening to “whup whoever stole my bike.”
he is a classy competitor and more importantly, a true human being.
he did not back away from any fight.
though many know him as “the greatest” boxer of all time, few  know that it was actually the theft of his bicycle at 12 that proved to be a  pivotal beginning of his boxing career.
that was just his  personality to be so giving of his time.
manny pacquiao is the first eight-division world champion boxer.
it was so heroic, and of  all the times we worked together, it is still my favorite memory of him.
ali  won his first fight six weeks later.
though many know him as “the greatest” boxer of all time, few know that it was actually the theft of his bicycle at 12 that proved to be a pivotal beginning of his boxing career.
when the referee raised his arm in  victory, ali shouted the iconic words that would become a self-fulfilling  prophecy: “i’m gonna be the greatest of all time!”
muhammad was so happy to hear i thought rubin was innocent.
although i was not yet born when he fought the very  best, i learned from watching his fights on television and the stories that i  heard of how great he truly was during his prime.
ali won his first fight six weeks later.
joe martin, a white louisville policeman, told him he had better learn to fight, and in his spare time, took ali under his wing and taught him the ropes.
but what was so incredible about ali was all the courageous and selfless things he did beyond boxing.
it was so heroic, and of all the times we worked together, it is still my favorite memory of him.
filipinos have a special place in their hearts for ali because his greatest win took place in the philippines in 1975.
filipinos have a  special place in their hearts for ali because his greatest win took place in  the philippines in 1975.
there is no  doubt that he influenced me as a fighter because of the things that he did  inside and outside the ring.
so began the life of muhammad ali, who celebrates his 70th birthday on january 17, 2012.
i also can’t tell you how many times, when we were driving on the road, that he’d see a school and make me pull over.
it seriously got to the point that when i saw a school, i’d think, ‘oh my god, here we go again.
495 productions and doron ofir casting are seeking mothers who are managing their talented children … by crystal arriaga over the weekend i realized something, i wanted to share what i think we somet… head to toe women’s expo and girls on the go 10k/ 5k run/walk while the runners are running, th… © 2011 military press newspaper.
i also  can’t tell you how many times, when we were driving on the road, that  he’d see a school and make me pull over.
he is a classy competitor and more importantly, a  true human being.
photo by lawrence  schiller by george lois time magazine muhammad ali’s first sounds were “gee-gee, gee-gee.”
his  beautiful mother, odessa clay, called her son “g-g” for the rest of  her life, and years later, ali would say, “after i won the golden gloves,  i told mama that from the very beginning, i was trying to say, ‘golden  gloves.’”
he’d meet all 200 school  kids and sign 200 autographs, often with a kid on his lap.
happy 70th birthday, muhammad ali by military press on january 17, 2012 at 9:54 am ali landing a shot on opponent joe frazier, manila, 1975.
after the bike was stolen, ali ran to the police station threatening to “whup whoever stole my bike.”
muhammad was so  happy to hear i thought rubin was innocent.
manny pacquiao: “growing up, i was aware of what the legendary muhammad ali achieved in and out of the ring.
he is also a congressman in his native philippines where he is hailed as “the national fist.”
manny pacquiao: “growing up, i was aware of what the  legendary muhammad ali achieved in and out of the ring.
by george lois time magazine muhammad ali’s first sounds were “gee-gee, gee-gee.”
he said, “absolutely,  i’m with you.”
nobody can doubt his  achievements in the ring.
photo by lawrence schiller