i figured that just about everyone i knew, especially boricuas were going to be watching the fight.
a very shaky decision led to suspensions by the new jersey state athletic control board of judges al bennett, don givens and hilton whitaker after the paul williams, erislandy lara fight.
they both come from countries that have rich boxing histories.
the wbc’s ruling body reverses the decision and hopkins regains his title.
narvaez, from argentina, remembers the day of julio cesar chavez, carlos monzon and carlos baldomir.(more…)boxing more deportes adidas albert pujols albert pujols & robinson cano win award america scores america scores ny apollo theater barcelona baseball basketball boxing bronx bombers bronx boxing bronxt star boxing cc sabathia cesar diaz chris dobens college basketball college hoops community cristiano ronaldo el clasico featured harlem john harkes la liga la pulga latinomvp
nor were they on line to see the next “american idol” or to hear the next “voice.”
the 75-year old renowned author and boxing...
i was a 12-year-old parochial school student at st. jerome’s when the biggest fight of the century would take place between muhammad ali and joe frazier.
they weren’t on line for amateur night.
but as the clock ticked into sunday morning, hours after cotto prevailed for the second time as wba junior middleweight champion, the rumors were stronger that he would be seeking justice with promoterbob arum, (more…)boxing more deportes new windsor, ny: i attended a pre-christmas party here in upstate new york yesterday.
if your hands are in the air, you’re in the minority.
boxing michael 'the brazilian rocky' oliveira dropping down to junior  middleweight by rich mancuso - on feb 15th 2012 -
donaire, from the philippines, is trying to follow in the footsteps of 32 former champions (joma gamboa, gerry penalos just to name two) and 13 current champions including the man many say is the best pound for pound fighter in the game today in manny pacquiao.
ortiz’ hands were down and he was looking at referee joe cortez when mayweather clocked him with a left, right combination.
comments new york -you did not have to know bert randolph sugar on a personal basis.
you are browsing ‘boxing’ category busy may
for busy star boxing by latino sports - on apr 18th 2012 - no comments bronx, ny (april 18, 2012) joe deguardia’s star boxing is readying  for a very busy sixteen-day period in may, as they will present three  world-class boxing events at the times union center in albany, new york,  russo’s
levante major league soccer messi mls nasl new york red bulls poetry slam puerto rico islanders rbny real madrid red bulls soccer sports spotlight time totalfootblog.com yankees follow us on twitter
then just over two weeks ago, bernard hopkins gets thrown to the canvas by chad dawson and suffers a dislocated shoulder.
no comments miami (february 15. 2012) – team oliveira has collectively decided to  drop undefeated wbc south american middleweight champion michael
what about omar (the hurricane) narvaez.
boxing new york -you did not have to know bert randolph sugar on a personal basis.
and when  it came to the sport of boxing, you went to him for an answer.
we made a $5 bet (a lot of money at the time) and i had to duck my school mate for the next couple of weeks after frazier put ali on the canvas in the 15th round, leading to a unanimous decision.
his presence was known with the unlit cigar etched in his mouth, a fedora hat  on his head and always a blazer and bright tie, a part of his attire.
(more…)boxing more deportes new york -miguel cotto sought redemption.
(more…)boxing more deportes new york – this is going down as one of the most controversial years in recent boxing history.
when hopkins is unable to continue, dawson is awarded a tko.
his presence was known with the unlit cigar etched in his mouth, a fedora hat on his head and always a blazer and bright tie, a part of his attire.
the situation got worse after the floyd mayweather, victor ortiz debacle, where mayweather knocked out ortiz after a head butt.
latinomvp award winners 2011
the 75-year old  renowned author and boxing... boxing floyd, cotto and cinco de mayo by andrew rosario - on mar 7th 2012  -no comments new york – the line outside of the apollo theatre in harlem started  assembling a little after 10 in the morning.
nor were they on line to see the next “american  idol” or to hear the next “voice.”
boxing miami (february 15. 2012) – team oliveira has collectively decided to drop undefeated wbc south american middleweight champion michael "the brazilian rocky" oliveira down one weight class to junior middleweight, starting with his brazilian mega-fight against four-time world champion acelino "popo" freitas, which is tentatively scheduled for may 19 in rio de janeiro, brazil.
bronx, ny (april 18, 2012) joe deguardia’s star boxing is readying for a very busy sixteen-day period in may, as they will present three world-class boxing events at the times union center in albany, new york, russo’s
(more…)boxing more deportes new york, ny – okay boxing fans, unless you’re hardcore, raise your hands if you’ve ever heard of nonito (the filipino flash) donaire.
even if you were not an avid boxing fan and you learned of the last cotto – margarito fight three years ago and the controversy that ensued you would definitely want to watch this fight.
i lobbied for ali, only because he was the better known fighter of the two.
aside from the fact they are relatively unknown, they do have one thing in common.
"the  brazilian rocky" oliveira down one weight class to junior  middleweight, starting with his brazilian mega-fight against four-time world  champion acelino "popo" freitas, which is tentatively scheduled  for may 19 in rio de janeiro, brazil.
driving up i remembered that i had not asked if they were going to be showing the maragarito – cotto fight.
“our team... boxing bert sugar was the face of boxing for a lost sport by rich mancuso  - on mar 27th 2012 -no
williams was giving the decision in a fight that many thought he lost.
(more…)boxing more deportes new york – 1971.
all week long, leading up to the fight, the debate raged on with fellow students as to who would win.
my classmate (unfortunately, i can’t recall his name) was convinced that frazier was the better fighter.
on the bay in howard beach, new york and the mohegan sun casino  in uncasville, connecticut.
they gathered on a  very unseasonably sunny and mild tuesday...
they weren’t on line for  amateur night.
and when it came to the sport of boxing, you went to him for an answer.
it came with a dominating win overantonio margarito at madison square garden in their second fight late saturday night.
on the bay in howard beach, new york and the mohegan sun casino in uncasville, connecticut.
they gathered on a very unseasonably sunny and mild tuesday...
boxing new york – the line outside of the apollo theatre in harlem started assembling a little after 10 in the morning.