the gm grand garden arena was transformed into a 70th birthday celebration for ali designed to honor the boxing legend’s contribution to the world and raise awareness and money for alzheimer’s, huntington’s, als, multiple sclerosis and of course parkinson’s disease, which “the champ” has been battling since 1984.
and he certainly inspired some big spenders during the event.
even if you have nothing to hide) ->http://t.co/jta2pgtn retweet rt @hope
the 5-hour birthday bash included performances by stevie wonder, cee-lo green, lenny kravitz, snoop dogg, john legend, kelly rowland and ll cool j, who appropriately rapped "mama said knock you out.
the event  benefits the cleveland clinic lou ruvo center for brain health and the muhammad  ali center.
and even after all the titles  and legendary bouts, you're still doing it."
as a fighter, you were something spectacular.
the awesome event will be aired on abc saturday, february 25, at 7 p.m. est (4 p.m. pst).
kitchen daily divorce huff/post50 religion - culture - arts parents travel college - religion impact books education - comedy - healthy living - health and fitness health news - mindful living sleep - women - local - new york san francisco denver miami patch - chicago los angeles dc detroit yellow pages - more - good news science blackvoices sports world gay voices - green latinovoices college crime weird news high school blackvoices life money pop culture fashion & beauty video sunday magazine black history month - advertise | - make huffpost your home page | - rss | - careers | - faq - user agreement | - privacy | - comment policy | - about us | - about our ads | - contact us - copyright © 2012 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. | - "the huffington post"
and even after all the titles and legendary bouts, you're still doing it."
who shelled out the cash?
"if mother teresa built a platform, it would look like hopemob" http://t.co/vth7qxki hope "if mother teresa built a platform, it would look like hopemob"http://t.co/vth7qxki retweet huffpost's big news pages dakota fanning: style evolution (photos) style evolution charlie rangel dances at new york campaign rally (video)
the 5-hour birthday bash included performances by stevie wonder, cee-lo  green, lenny kravitz, snoop dogg, john legend, kelly rowland and ll cool j, who  appropriately rapped "mama said knock you out.
lorenzo fertitta, a casino owner and owner of the ultimate fighting championship, the mixed marital arts league.
(photo by ethan miller/getty images for keep memory alive) read whole post tyler perry's 'good deeds' premiere: gabrielle  union, thandie newton, beverly johnson and more (photos)
huffpost's quickread...
it’s time to do more to protect sharks robert reich the gas wars ellen degeneres maid of honor bill moyers watch:
mick jagger hot on twitter 2rgnqxlokelfimsgdv8i8f8ym0hhxtuf ijkomeblqmm3qvavq0trgdrc%2banufz3b 1of 2 rt @suicidegirls 5 reasons you should never agree to a police search (even if you have nothing to hide) -> http://t.co/jta2pgtn suicidegirls 5 reasons you should never agree to a police search (
green efforts motorsports lent tweets from pope benedict xvi start on ash wednesday lent michael o'connor, 'jane eyre' costume designer,
owner steven lagos designed a stunning one-of-a-kind cuff and  earring set in 18k gold and diamonds which sold for $30,000.
the event benefits the cleveland  clinic lou ruvo center for brain health and the muhammad ali center.
chicago  edition play fullscreen zoom share this slide   las vegas,  nv - february 18: (exclusive coverage) boxing legend muhammad ali (l) and wife  lonnie ali appear onstage during the keep memory alive foundation's 'power of  love gala' celebrating muhammad ali's 70th birthday at the mgm grand garden  arena february 18, 2012 in las vegas, nevada.
the gm grand garden arena was transformed into a 70th birthday celebration  for ali designed to honor the boxing legend’s contribution to the world  and raise awareness and money for alzheimer’s, huntington’s, als,  multiple sclerosis and of course parkinson’s disease, which “the  champ” has been battling since 1984.
harriet tubman's descendants draw strength from the matriarch's legacy michael jordan's birthday:
the awesome event will be aired on abc saturday, february 25, at 7 p.m. est  (4 p.m. pst).
(photo by ethan miller/getty images for keep memory alive) read whole post tyler perry's 'good deeds' premiere: gabrielle union, thandie newton, beverly johnson and more (photos)
a pair of ali's boxing gloves he used to defeat floyd patterson in 1965 were auctioned for a whooping $1.1 million.
muhammad ali and wife lonnie ali 1   of  33 previous slide next slideshow las vegas, nv - february 18: (exclusive coverage) boxing legend muhammad ali  (l) and wife lonnie ali appear onstage during the keep memory alive  foundation's 'power of love gala' celebrating muhammad ali's 70th birthday at  the mgm grand garden arena february 18, 2012 in las vegas, nevada.
huffington post julee wilson
superstar athlete turns 49, plus his most memorable outfits (photos) street style stars spotted during new york fashion week fall 2012 (photos) heavy d's documentary, 'be inspired: the life of heavy d,' set to air on  centric blackvoices history quest, black history in your backyard:
but check out the slideshow below for a sneak peek!
the event benefits the cleveland clinic lou ruvo center for brain health and the muhammad ali center.
kathleen hall jamieson on debates, fox news, and truth top video picks 1 of 8 star jones returns to 'the view' abby lee miller gives 'wendy williams' a dance lesson donald trump on new 'celebrity apprentice' contestants on 'wendy williams' most discussed right
muhammad ali and wife lonnie ali 1 of 33 first slide
(photo by ethan miller/getty images for keep memory alive) slideshow thumbnails follow huffpost black voices  on facebook: like
first posted: 02/21/2012 8:20 am updated: 02/21/2012 4:04 pm react amazing inspiring funny scary hot crazy important weird follow las vegas , boxing , video , kelly rowland , muhammad ali , muhammad ali birthday , parkinson's disease , stevie wonder , cee lo green , hair-beauty , keep memory alive , lagos , lagos jewelry , power of love gala , black voices news share this story get black voices alerts sign up submit this story digg reddit stumble celebs gathered in las vegas this past saturday night to celebrate the life and legacy of boxer muhammad ali at the 16th annualkeep memory alive “power of love gala."
lorenzo fertitta, a  casino owner and owner of the ultimate fighting championship, the mixed marital  arts league.
a pair of  ali's boxing gloves he used to defeat floyd patterson in 1965 were auctioned  for a whooping $1.1 million.
now 2rgnqxlokelfimsgdv8i8a43pip0bdkp ijkomeblqmm3qvavq0trgkqa9zrbn5c9 1of
video super pac contributions overwhelmingly concentrated among few donors ron paul birth control debate: nh lawmaker proposes repeal of 'obsolete and outdated' contraception law catholic church 'the obamas': jodi kantor talks first family's challenges the obama family daytona 500: nascar promotes
stumble celebs gathered in las vegas this past saturday night to celebrate the life  and legacy of boxer muhammad ali at the 16th annualkeep memory alive  “power of love gala."
- front page - u.s. uk canada québec france - politics - 2012 blog huffpost hill 2012 elections fundrace - green pollster speculatron off the bus - business - entertainment - celebrity entertainment music radio - movies tv games comedy - tech - tech techcrunch joystiq - science engadget apple blog - media - life & style - style news stylelist food news weddings parents green - travel stylelist home kitchen daily divorce huff/post50 religion - culture - arts parents travel college - religion impact books education - comedy - healthy living - health and fitness health news - mindful living sleep - women - local - new york san francisco denver miami patch - chicago los angeles dc detroit yellow pages - more - good news science blackvoices sports world gay voices - green latinovoices college crime weird news high school blackvoices life money pop culture fashion & beauty video sunday magazine black history month huffpost social reading muhammad ali's star-studded 70th birthday celebration, iconic boxing gloves and lagos jewelry auctioned (photos)
harriet tubman's descendants draw strength from the  matriarch's legacy michael jordan's birthday: superstar athlete turns 49,  plus his most memorable outfits (photos) street style stars spotted during  new york fashion week fall 2012 (photos) heavy d's documentary, 'be  inspired: the life of heavy d,' set to air on centric blackvoices history  quest, black history in your backyard: chicago edition muhammad ali  and wife lonnie ali 1   / 33  share this slide las vegas, nv - february 18: (exclusive coverage) boxing legend muhammad  ali (l) and wife lonnie ali appear onstage during the keep memory alive  foundation's 'power of love gala' celebrating muhammad ali's 70th birthday at  the mgm grand garden arena february 18, 2012 in las vegas, nevada.
previous slide next slideshow las vegas, nv - february 18: (exclusive coverage) boxing legend muhammad ali (l) and wife lonnie ali appear onstage during the keep memory alive foundation's 'power of love gala' celebrating muhammad ali's 70th birthday at the mgm grand garden arena february 18, 2012 in las vegas, nevada.
one of our favorite jewelry companies, lagos, also contributed to the  amazing cause.
owner steven lagos designed a stunning one-of-a-kind cuff and earring set in 18k gold and diamonds which sold for $30,000.
harriet tubman's  descendants draw strength from the matriarch's legacy michael jordan's  birthday:
(photo by ethan miller/getty images for keep memory alive) more slideshows next > |  film adrian grenier florida:
is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc.
one of our favorite jewelry companies, lagos, also contributed to the amazing cause.
(photo by  ethan miller/getty images for keep memory alive) more  slideshows next >   |   < prev tyler  perry's 'good deeds' premiere: gabrielle union, thandie newton, beverly johnson  and more (photos)
2 smithsonian black history museum groundbreaking kicks off tea party group pushes for sunnier side of slavery in textbooks hot on facebook 2rgnqxlokelfimsgdv8i8tkpvbq8xpkmgyinrec4w8w%3d ijkomeblqmm3qvavq0trgptaykcdranfpr%2bnvsqa9qm%3d jpekjkgss0bjplrx0pv4fss35vaam%2fhsd5arroaf1ya%3d k4syteuduaapma9u8drfcw%3d%3d 1 of 3 key and peele are selling comedy blacks arent buying watch: obama sings with b.b. king
on mia wasikowska's corset and the oscars the oscars biden to travel to mexico, honduras vice president more big news pages » - front page - u.s. uk canada québec france - politics - 2012 blog huffpost hill 2012 elections fundrace - green pollster speculatron off the bus - business - entertainment - celebrity entertainment music radio - movies tv games comedy - tech - tech techcrunch joystiq - science engadget apple blog - media - life & style - style news stylelist food news weddings parents green - travel stylelist home
you shocked the world, and you inspired it, too.
loading... edition: u.s. ca canada québec fr france us united states uk united kingdom - | - mail - | - click here to return to aol.com armchair detective more - tyler perry - pop culture entertainment - black history month log in february 22, 2012 like 50k connect
loading... huffpost's quickread...
" president obama even made an appearance via a heartfelt video message: "happy birthday, champ.
superstar athlete turns 49, plus his most memorable outfits (photos) street style stars spotted during new york fashion week fall 2012 (photos) heavy d's documentary, 'be inspired: the life of heavy d,' set to air on centric blackvoices history quest, black history in your backyard: chicago edition play fullscreen zoom share this slide las vegas, nv - february 18: (exclusive coverage) boxing legend muhammad ali (l) and wife lonnie ali appear onstage during the keep memory alive foundation's 'power of love gala' celebrating muhammad ali's 70th birthday at the mgm grand garden arena february 18, 2012 in las vegas, nevada.
weird follow las vegas  ,    boxing  ,    video  , kelly rowland  ,  muhammad ali  ,  muhammad ali birthday  ,  parkinson's  disease ,  stevie wonder  ,  cee lo green  ,  hair-beauty  ,  keep memory alive   , lagos  ,  lagos jewelry  ,  power of love gala  ,  black voices news share this story sign up submit this story digg reddit