may the lord make us all faithful to the end.
the main reason i haven’t posted until now is my great respect for the continuationists at sovereign grace ministries.
one final tongue in cheek comment: if we had an apostle or a genuine prophet today, wouldn’t it be possible to settle some of the thorny issues that divide protestant christians into denominations?
he has even worked upa one year calendar for doing it.
one text (which my friend denny burk pointed out to me) that might open up the circle of the apostles is 1 corinthians 15:7, where after saying that jesus appeared to the twelve in 15:5, paul says that jesus appeared to james and “all the apostles.”
session v – randy stinson steve wright will be recording a few episodes for family life radio later this week.
what a depressing thing to say at a wedding!
renewing conversations: doing scholarship in an age of skepticism, accommodation, and specialization bulletin for biblical research 13.2 (2003) 227-249 [© 2003 institute for biblical research] by jmh on may 21, 2008 in cultural engagement, history, reformation and revival i very much enjoyed prof nathan finn’s address at the recent building bridges conference, and i’m glad to see that he is now giving straight answers toquestions younger leaders are asking.
in my opinion, the starting place for new testament theology is now schreiner’s volume rather than ladd’s.
the administration has been generous to me, always showing a sincere pastoral love, and god blessed me with dear friends in my faculty colleagues.
the current issue is now online, and it has essays from stephen wellum, russell fuller, and myself on how the whole bible preaches christ, david powlison writes on how to center counseling on christ, russ moore shows us how to go beyond the veggie tales gospel (you have to readthis) to preach christ ourselves, and david prince gives us an example of preaching christ from judges.
cobb replied: “i’m not fat.
acts 17:26 is describing nations, and it states that god has determined how long a nation will exist and what its boundaries will be.
it seems to me that, in the passage cited above, harvey concedes that the gift of apostle has ceased, but then wants to say that something similar to it continues.
if you decide to read through the greek new testament, be careful.
by jmh on may 28, 2008 in bible and theology, cultural engagement, evangelism and apologetics, history, spiritual discipline andy naselli’s first ph.d. dissertation was on keswick theology (he’s working on a second ph.d. at trinity), and he recently gave a presentation at detroit baptist theological seminary that summarizes his dissertation.
a possible defeater
mike tyson, to the nevada state athletic commission: “i’m not mother teresa.
the third post in dr. finn’s “unplugged” series is up, and it gives a fascinating look at the north carolina baptist state convention.
bell’s aim appears to be to establish his conclusion, deal with material that counters his conclusion, and apply his conclusion to recent history (the holocaust) and the contemporary scene (various charges of anti-semitism).
this would seem to mean that the apostles were the 12, with matthias replacing judas (acts 1:15–26), james the lord’s brother (1 cor 15:7; gal 1:19), paul (1 cor 15:8-9), and maybe barnabas (acts 14:4, 14).
i don’t think this is helpful because it clearly says, “we don’t mean apostle in the sense of paul and the 12, but we still want to use the word as though some people today have the gift.”
–my short piece deals with how the authors of the new testament understand the old testament.
tübingen: mohr siebeck, 2005.
praise god for the help in good books!
for instance, wouldn’t an apostle or a prophet be able to tell those paedo-baptists to quit sprinkling their babies and join up with the baptists!?
for those who, like me, did not live this history (i was in college in 1993) but are now fellows of ibr, this essay gives us insight into the intentions and aims of its founders.
brad j. waggoner and e. ray clendenen.
praise god for the work of earle ellis!
i never intended to get swept up in a church plant, but god blessed us immensely through this group of families who wanted to plant a church.
[© 1996 institute for biblical research] john sailhamer creation, genesis 1-11, and the canon bulletin for biblical research 10.1 (2000) 89-106 [© 2000 institute for biblical research] jay e. smith 1 thessalonians 4:4: breaking the impasse bulletin for biblical research 11.1 (2001) 65-105
i think every scholar, pastor, student, and christian layman would do well to put this volume at the top of the summer reading list and enjoy!
sam waldron, “the biblical confirmation of particular redemption” theological stereotypes chuck lawless, “southern baptist non-calvinists—who are we really?”
i think that paul is saying that jesus the risen lord appeared to them and commissioned them.
if anyone knows of similar resources for the old testament in hebrew (and/or greek), i would be grateful to know of them.
timothy 2:4, “no soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits, since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him.”
so, if hbo wants, they can pick two sparring partners for me to fight after i knock out forrest.
in other words, he owns a pair of shorts.”
to conclude that no one today functions as an apostle of any kind.”
randall “tex” cobb: “when i got up i stuck to my plan — stumbling forward and getting hit in the face.”
then come back and read the rest of this (since you have some time before your copy arrives.
all the essays inbbr are peer reviewed, and they are all quality pieces of work.
these questions are a helpful window into what students at southeastern college are thinking about, and dr. finn gives respectful, informed, frank, and encouraging responses.
i found his summary and critique of the keswick movement enormously helpful for sorting through the way that the keswick view of sanctification has leavened itself all through evangelicalism.
update: free audio for each of the five sessions has now been made available: session 1 – leon tucker session 2 – david horner session 3 – dave owen session 4 – steve wright session 5 – randy stinson by jmh on may 21, 2008 in bible and theology, gospel, messiah in the ot, ot in the nt i am delighted to see that the institute for biblical research has put back issues of thebulletin for biblical research online for free.
he writes: detroit seminary is hosting the following resources from the lecture series: 1.
the event is a weekly bible study aimed at college students, and it begins at 9pm.
interview with steve wright (part 2) 4.
2 timothy 2:4 tells us that christian ministers are like soldiers.
nathan a. finn, “southern baptist calvinism: setting the record straight” election and calling ken keathley, “a molinist view of election, or how to be a consistent infralapsarian” greg welty, “election and calling: a biblical theological study” working together to make christ known daniel l. akin, “answering the call to a great commission resurgence” tom ascol, “working together to make christ know: considerations for the future” by jmh on may 22, 2008 in bible and theology, church, ecclesiology, youth ministry those of you interested in approaching youth ministry in terms of equipping parents to disciple their children and helping them in that process will want to check outalex chediak’s blog report of the recent rethink conference.
that curse is the origin of feminism.
months of thinking over and praying through this possibility have made me certain that ifthe southern baptist theological seminary invited me to join the faculty, it would be the call of god to leave houston and move to louisville to labor in a different section of the lord’s vineyard.
bob arum, after his fighter, iran barkley, beat darrian van horn: “if you think barkley was mad before the fight, wait until he sees how many people are taking part of his purse.”
the problem is, when ephesians 4:11 says, “he gave some as apostles,” i think it’s really hard to make that mean something other than “paul and the 12, james, barnabas, and maybe jude.”
i think this would be like me re-defining what it means to be an arminian and then claiming to be one–after all, i do think that people have free will!
god is sovereign over every day of our lives.
having noted his shift in persuasion from the “new perspective” to a “more traditional ‘lutheran’ approach”in his preface (vii), richard bell plunges straightway into a discussion of paul’s birth, upbringing and education.
[© 1992 institute for biblical research] e. earle ellis, jesus’ use of the old testament and the genesis of new testament theology bulletin for biblical research 3 (1993)
my students have heard me make this argument in class, but i have been hesitant to post it.
lord willing, i will take up the post of associate professor of biblical theology at southern in the fall of 2008.
“yesterday i was lying, today i am telling the truth.”
baroness: “mr. cooper, have you looked in the mirror lately and seen the state of your nose?”
the real continuationists are those who conduct themselves as though the gift of apostle hasn’t ceased, and there are at least two groups who behave as though it does: roman catholics and mormons.
cooper: “well madam, have you looked in the mirror and seen the state of your nose?
i was inspired by the account of stortz’s life, and i am not alone.
[© 2001 institute for biblical research] v. philips long
if you happen to hear me preach sometime in the next few years, chances are it will be on revelation, and lord willing those sermons will take their place among the other volumes in the preaching the word series.
willie pep: “i’ve got it made.
what a privilege to serve such a people!
those of you who are back from ordering your copy, while you’re waiting for it to arrive, let me urge you to give yourself to the meditative reading of the bible.
to paraphraselester de koster: there it is, throbbing on your desk, the living word of god.
if they are not, they can, in principle, add to the new testament.
you cansubscribe to the magazine for free, and i think you ought to do so and ask them to send you a copy of the current issue.
ps: i think andy’s blog is worth adding to your google reader and keeping an eye on.
the students have been eager to learn, encouraging to me, and what a joy to see them enter the harvest!
it seems, then, that this discussion is simply over the degree of cessationism that we hold, because anyone who holds that there is no one in the church today with the same kind of authority possessed by peter and paul believes that the gift of apostle has ceased.
session iii – dave owen 7.
so it seems to me that the apostles that paul describes jesus giving to the church in ephesians 4:11 are this closed circle of men who saw the risen lord and were commissioned by him (the twelve and the few others added after the resurrection).
would it work for me to announce, “therefore, i believe in free will, and i will call myself an arminian.”
tommy farr: “every time i hear the name joe louis my nose starts to bleed.”
if you embrace it, you will be hated (see john 15:18-20).
when i hear or read great preaching, it makes me want to preach.
by jmh on may 20, 2008 in for god's glory in christ by the spirit something took me to the institute for biblical research’s website yesterday, and i was delighted to see that back issues of thebulletin for bibilcal research are online through 2005.
with d. a. carson, i think that the apostles are a closed circle and that when those men died the foundation of the church had been laid and the gift of apostle ceased.
max baer, when asked for his definition of fear: “standing across the ring from joe louis and knowing he wants to go home early.”
but i’m also not charles manson.”
featured speakers included calvinistic baptists and non-calvinistic baptists.
dan duva, on mike tyson hooking up again with promoter don king: ” why would anyone expect him to come out smarter?
muhammad ali, when asked about his golf game: “i’m the best.
here’s what i said when i shared this news with our church family at baptist church of the redeemer: psalm 139:16, “your eyes saw my unformed substance; in your book were written, every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them.”
soldiers receive orders, and they obey, seeking to please their superiors.
but we’re not really continuationist on this point.
you may know david helm from his work on the big picture story bible –if you have kids and don’t have the big picture story bible, you need to buy it right now and enjoy it with your children.
i suppose he’s one of them foreign heavyweights.
trouble is, nobody ever knocked anybody out with a poem.”
but it has not ultimately come down to my choice.
but if that’s what the gift means, we might all be continuationists!
right before that, ephesians 2:20 refers to the apostles as foundational for the church.
c. s. lewis once said that the best devotional books were the ones that seriously interpret the message of the bible.
and that means that schreiner’snew testament theology is not only, in the words of simon gathercole, “a magnificent acheivement!”
he went to prison for three years, not princeton.”
god has opened this door and has called us to this new ministry.
willie looked hard and considered before finally replying “lie down so i can recognize you.”
at the twentieth anniversary of the society in 1993, earle ellis recounted the history of ibr and his hopes for its future: e. earle ellis, “institute for biblical research 1973-1993 prologue and prospects,” bulletin for biblical research 4 (1994) 35-40.
here is the table of contents: the current climate ed stetzer, “calvinism, evangelism, and sbc leadership” the historical record david s. dockery, “southern baptists and calvinism: a historical look” tom j. nettles, “a historical view of the doctrinal importance of calvinism among baptists” general evaluation malcolm b. yarnell iii, “calvinism: cause for rejoicing, cause for concern” jeff noblit, “the rise of calvinism in the southern baptist convention: reason for rejoicing” the atonement david p. nelson, “the design, nature, and extent of the atonement”
sure as he[ck] i’ll moider de bum.”
max barr, on joe louis: “he hit me 18 times while i was in the act of falling.”
so it seems to me that everyone who thinks that there are no more apostles like peter and paul thinks that at least one spiritual gift has ceased.
he died well, and being dead, he still speaks.
[© 1993 institute for biblical research] thomas r. schreiner, did paul believe in justification by works?
by jmh on may 5, 2008 in gospel, ministry, sermon audio, worship lord willing, this wednesday night – may 7, 2008 – i’ll be speaking at “narrow,” which meets at westgate memorial baptist church in beaumont, tx (6220 westgate dr, beaumont, tx, 77706).
anyone preaching, teaching, or studying 1 peter, 2 peter, or jude should get their hands onthis book to have the soil of the mind fertilized by the able proclamation modeled for us by david helm.
i cannot recommend this book highly enough.
i disagree with them, though, and i’m about to say why.
but we aren’t hopeful about your marriage because we can make a joke and lighten the mood.
the old opponent asked.
bob hope: “i was called “rembrandt” hope in my boxing days, because i spent so much time on the canvas.”
i know a lot of people want to see me fight more rounds.
that curse is the origin of males who sinfully “rule over” their wives in inappropriate ways.
if we were to follow the pattern of the nt on this point, we might call missionaries that we send out from our churches “apostles,” but we would always want to clarify that we don’t mean apostle in the way that paul and peter were apostles.
incidentally, those who think that junia is both female and an apostle (rom 16:7) also think there are more apostles than those i have named.
i’ll be tuning in for future posts.
i am humbled and honored to have the opportunity to serve in this role.
“do you recognize me?”
wouldn’t a real arminian object to the way that i have co-opted their language?
jacob neusner, mr. sanders’s pharisees and mine bulletin for biblical research 2 (1992) 143-169
we are so grateful that we were drawn into this endeavor.
answering the defeater i think it likely that paul mentions the twelve in 1 corinthians 15:5 and then mentions “all the apostles” in 15:7 because the apostles is a broader group than merely the twelve.
joe frazier, talking to ken norton at a social gathering.
he is also putting together syntactical notes on the greek new testament, which you can get to by scrolling downthis page until you see the heading “greek new testament.”
frazier: “hey man, what you been doing?”; norton: “my wife just had a baby.”; frazier: “congratulations!
continue reading → by jmh on may 13, 2008 in for god's glory in christ by the spirit
continue reading → by jmh on may 23, 2008 in bible and theology, cultural engagement, history, reformation and revival, spiritual gifts
second, this argument is not tied to a particular form of either dispensational or covenant theology (i’m in that overlapping middle that is sympathetic with both progressive dispensationalism and new covenant theology).
acts 17:26, “and he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling place . . .”
here’s the lineup of posts: 1.
this is an insightful, and devastating, review of shane claiborne’s the irresistable revolution.
psalm 139:16 tells us that every day of our lives is written in god’s book before they come to pass.
what’s yours?” eddie shaw, referring to herol “bomber” graham : “he has turned defensive boxing into a poetic art.
i would also request that those of you who are in the habit of asking the lord to bless things would beseech him to help me as i work on the commentary on revelation for this series.
if you screw up in boxing, it’s your [tail].”
let me put it in a way that corresponds with harvey’s statement above: “while we agree that free will as the arminian typically understands it does not exist, let us not hastily extrapolate that there is no such thing as free will of any kind.”
i might not agree with every conclusion reached in this commentary (though thinking through someone else’s conclusions has its own value), but i agree with the passion for evangelism and the commitment to expository preaching exemplified by rodney stortz.
we have learned and continue to learn from our brothers and sisters, and i am spurred on by their godliness and devotion.
dr. naselli has done us a great service in sifting through this material and presenting it in a humble, winsome way.
i’ll link to some of my favoritebbr articles from years past in a subsequent post, but this post is on a most interesting essay from the founder of ibr.
session i – leon tucker 5.session ii – david horner 6.
by jmh on may 25, 2008 in bible and theology, church, marriage, ministry yesterday i had the great joy of preaching at a wedding for one of the guys in our church, who is also a student at swbts houston.
perhaps an analogy would be helpful here.
by jmh on may 22, 2008 in bible and theology, books, evangelism and apologetics, gospel, reformation and revival denny burk writes: last fall, i wrote about the “building bridges” conference that was held in ridgecrest, north carolina.
it has been a high privilege to serve southwestern seminary for the past 5 years.
all who trust in jesus are justified before god and empowered to live in a new way, a way that is not doomed by the dreadful curse on sin.
my advice is to quit reading this right now, go toamazon.com, and order your copy at their 34% discounted price.
blackie sherrod, talking about a heavyweight contender: “he has everything a boxer needs except speed, stamina, a punch, and ability to take punishment.
we are hopeful about your marriage because when jesus came, he died on the cross to pay the penalty for sin.
at the encouragement of a couple friends who were present, i’m posting my remarks here.
the mormons also claim to have new revelation that is on the level of scripture.
session iv – steve wright 8.
another look at romans 2 bulletin for biblical research 3 (1993) 131-158
we have never been happier at a church than we are at redeemer.
i think the same is true of individuals: god has determined how long we will live on this earth and what the boundaries of our dwelling place will be.
if you embrace it, you will be  hated (see john 15:18-20).
this text could be taken to mean that “the apostles” refers to a broader group than those named above.
bell concludes regarding israel that “the whole nation, including every single member” will be saved by faith in jesus at his second coming (261-65).
[© 1995 institute for biblical research] martin hengel tasks of new testament scholarship bulletin for biblical research 6 (1996) 67-86
i am inclined to think that the reference to “all the apostles” in 1 corinthians 15:7 is a reference to all those who make up this group of fifteen or sixteen men (the twelve including matthias, james, jude?, barnabas, and according to 1 corinthians 15:8, paul).
by jmh on may 23, 2008 in bible and theology, messiah in the ot, messianism ,ot in the nt the spring issue of the southern seminary magazine, the tie, has just appeared online, and it takes up the question of reading the bible christologically.
it seems to me that any group that holds to a closed canon thinks that the gift of apostle has ceased (i have argued the same point regarding prophecyhere ).
lou duva, veteran boxing trainer, on the spartan training regimen of heavyweight andrew golota: “he’s a guy who gets up at six o’clock in the morning regardless of what time it is.”
published in bulletin for biblical research, 18.1 (2008), 161-64.
muhammad ali , on heavyweight boxing champion sonny liston: “he’s too ugly to be the champ!”
muhammad ali: “howard cosell was gonna be a boxer when he was a kid—only they couldn’t find a mouthpiece big enough.”
that curse is the origin of all marital difficulty.
mike tyson, on writer wallace matthews: “[he] called me a ‘rapist’ and a ‘recluse’.
harry kabakoff, on chango cruz: “the bum was up and down so many times i thought he was an otis elevator.”
by jmh on may 29, 2008 in bible and theology, books my copy of thomas r. schreiner’s new testament theology arrived last night, and i have been feasting on it with great delight!
by jmh on may 11, 2008 in bible and theology, books, history, messiah in the ot, messianism
alan minter: “sure there have been injuries and deaths in boxing – but none of them serious.”
is this helpful in the discussion?
by jmh on may 12, 2008 in church, history, ministry in god’s great mercy i will be joining the faculty of the southern baptist theological seminary in the fall.
so, a friend of mine sent me his collection of boxing quotes, and i post them here with his permission.
every young southern baptist should read it for the encouragement (and for another opportunity to thank god for the way he has used paige patterson to lead bible believing people to reclaim their institutions).
his resurrection shows that he has triumphed over the curse.
henry cooper, replying to boxing abolitionist, baroness edith summerskill, about the brutalities of his sport.
may the lord be pleased to bless our marriages that we might be living pictures of the mystery of christ and the church!
those who think the canon is closed and call themselves “charismatic/continuationist” on this point can only do so because they have redefined the terms.
the harmony enjoyed in eden was soon lost when the couple sinned, and god said to the woman as he pronounced judgment, “your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you” (gen 3:16).
in terms of its scholarship, it’s also one of the best devotional books you could hope to find.
here goes: d. a. carson has written, “as long as ‘apostles’ are understood to refer to a select group (the twelve plus paul) whose positions or functions cannot be duplicated after their demise, there is a prima facie case for sayingat least oneof the cari,smata (charismata) passes away at the end of the first generation, a gift tightly tied to the locus of revelation that came with jesus messiah and related events” (showing the spirit, 88).
george foreman: “the referee is the most important man in the ring besides the two fighters.”
i would especially encourage pastors, students, and theologians to check out these lectures.
the things in that book got most of its authors killed, and when people have taken it seriously in the history of the church, crazy things likethe reformation have happened andsome folks even got themselves burned at the stake.
the first question deals with the recent imb regulations, and the second takes upthe future of sbc calvinism.
we are sad to leave home, family in texas, and most of all our church, but at the same time we are excited about what the lord has for us.
ephesians 3:5 refers to the apostles as those to whom the revelation of the mystery was given, which seems to refer to the guys who wrote the other parts of the new testament.
[© 1994 institute for biblical research] this is a fascinating window into the history of the organization from the persepective of its founder, and an appendix to ellis’s remarks gives his original letter from 1970 inviting people to meet together at sbl that year to discuss what has become the institute for biblical research.
by the way, if you have the svs press edition of athanasius’s on the incarnation (the one with the brilliant introduction by c. s. lewis), the letter to marcellinus on the interpretation of the psalms is included as an appendix.
if anyone  knows of similar resources for the old testament in hebrew (and/or greek), i  would be grateful to know of them.
ephesians 2:10, “for we are his workmanship, created in christ jesus for good works, which god prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them.”
ephesians 2:10 tells us that god has prepared beforehand good works for us to do.
————— when god gave the woman to the man in the garden of eden, the words were pronounced, “therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh” (gen 2:24).
here’sthe story in the towers online.
the most striking thing, for me, about athanasius’s letter is his absolutely thorough knowledge of the psalms!
i would be a fool to choose to leave.
mike tyson, on fighting lennox lewis: “my main objective is to be professional, but to kill him.”
by jmh on may 19, 2008 in bible and theology, books, history richard h. bell, the irrevocable call of god: an inquiry into paul’s theology of israel, wunt.
that is, i do not understand either verse to be referring to a “skill set” of apostleship, but to certain men who were given to the church as the apostles.
the greek new testament is decidedly unsafe.
by jmh on may 22, 2008 in bible and theology, books, evangelism and apologetics, history i am preaching through daniel right now at baptist church of the redeemer, and that enterprise drew my attention torodney stortz, who wrote the preaching the word volume on daniel.
muhammad ali, on an upcoming fight with floyd patterson: “i’ll beat him so bad he’ll need a shoehorn to put his hat on.”
it has also been an unexpected, unlooked for joy and privilege to serve at baptist church of the redeemer for the last three years.
he has opened the way to life.
he is also putting together syntactical notes on the greek new testament,  which you can get to by scrolling downthis page until you see the heading  “greek new testament.”
may the lord prosper his word!
marlene bugner, wife of joe bugner: “i don’t know what impressive is, but joe was impressive tonight.”
tex cobb, responding to a reporter who said cobb was a fat, cocaine snorting , drunk.
if you already have a copy, quit reading this post and crack open schreiner’snew testament theology–it will be a lot better for you than this post!).
the presentations from that conference are being published as a collection of essays, and the book is available for pre-order from amazon.com.
in addition to that, let yourself enjoy a guided tour of the themes of new testament theology with one of with ablest interpreters of our times.
by jmh on may 30, 2008 in bible and theology, books, spiritual discipline lee irons has some good advice on reading through the greek new testament year by year.
g. e. ladd’s a theology of the new testament was published in 1974, and it has been the standard text on new testament theology since that time.
power point presentation as a pdf (eighty slides with lots of pictures)
randall “tex” cobb: “if you screw things up in tennis, it’s 15-love.
this point is so important that its central implication needs to be made explicit: the new testament indicates that its authors understand themselves to be reading the old testament the way that jesus read the old testament.
may the lord help us to honor him by talking to one another in an edifying, straightforward, and loving way about the real issues facing our convention.
interview with steve wright (part 1) 3.
[© 1993 institute for biblical research] d. a. carson current issues in biblical theology: a new testament perspective bulletin for biblical research 5 (1995) 17-41
all of this makes me eager to serve god’s people with urgent love for them and the lord jesus by proclaiming the bible to them and praying the lord to send the spirit to set it on fire.
mp3s: · a historical and theological survey of the early keswick movement (1:10:32) · a theological analysis of the early keswick movement – part 1 (57:20) · a theological analysis of the early keswick movement – part 2 (with q & a) (49:24)
bob arum, replying to a reporters question.
nick wilshire: “i can only see it going one way, that’s my way.
continue reading → by jmh on may 23, 2008 in bible and theology, church, ecclesiology, spiritual gifts i have been sitting on this post for a long time.
one member of this broader group has been named in the previous phrase in 15:7, james.
the reader must deduce for himself what bell’s thesis is and how the format of the material makes his argument.
tony galento, when asked about shakespeare: “i ain’t never heard of him.
to paraphraselester de koster: there it is,  throbbing on your desk, the living word of god.
dave harvey has written the sovereign grace book on polity (available free onlinehere), which i think has beneficial information, but i don’t think the statement on “apostles” is helpful: “while sovereign grace ministries heartily agrees that ‘no one in the church today functions with the authority of the original apostles,’ let us not hastily extrapolate . . .
what a gift to be spurred on to a closer and more comprehensive knowledge of the psalms!
among the articles published through 2005, the ones below are some of my favorites.
i just haven’t played yet.”
the circumstances of our lives have made clear that new orders have been given to me.
isbn: 3-16-148009-0. $175.00.
i’m finally going to post my claim that we’re all really cessationists.
in conclusion, it appears to be the case that, at least as it regards the gift of apostleship, all protestants are really cessationists.
in his fascinating lecture on “reading the psalms messianically ,” gordon wenham recommendsthe letter of st. athanasius to marcellinus on the interpretation of the psalms.
all we would mean is “messenger,” or perhaps, “missionary.”
when i’m done, i’ll tell you what i think is the major defeater of my argument (in other words, i’ll tell you how i would argue against this position if i were a continuationist), and then i’ll tell you what (i think) defeats that defeater.
the latest installment of the preaching the word commentary series arrived on my doorstep last night, and when i read the first two or three sermons in this volume, they made me want to preach!
third, below i will lay out my argument.
ricardo mayorga: i will knock out vernon forrest in two rounds whether i have a cigarette or not.
that way, the audience can see me fight 12 rounds.”
prof finn also has some comments on cessationism that have prompted me to go forward with a post i’ve been sitting on for some time, trying to decide whether or not to put it up.
but if one wants to know how jesus interpreted the old testament on the road to emmaus, the easiest way to find out is to read the new testament.
for the roman catholics, tradition and the pope’s ex cathedra statements are as authoritative as scripture.
if you’re in the area, it would be great to see you there.
by jmh on may 27, 2008 in cultural engagement, historyi don’t usually post this sort of thing, but sometimes we all need some amusement.
before i do, some caveats: first, my argument for cessationism is exegetical, but it is not tied to any statements in 1 corinthians 13.
mark kaylor: “i’ve only ever seen errol christie fight once before and that was the best i’ve ever seen him fight.”
i would define the apostles that carson describes as those who saw the risen lord jesus and were commissioned by him.
those guys are among the most humble, godly, joyful, loving people i’ve ever met, and i don’t mean any disrespect to them in this post.
your email: © 2012 for his renown.
as i’ve mentioned recently, if you’re preaching or teaching a particular book, it is a great help to have your thoughts stimulated by someone else’s efforts to preach that part of scripture.
reading the greek new testament by jmh on may 30, 2008 in bible and theology, books, spiritual discipline lee irons has some good advice on reading through the greek new testament  year by year.
———– on a logistical note, if anyone is looking to buy a house in southwest houston, let’s talk!
willie pep, talking to an old opponent years after each retired.
harry carpenter : “this boxer is doing what is expected of him, bleeding from his nose.”
muhammed ali, after failing an army intelligence test, “i said i was the greatest, not the smartest.”
that curse came because of human sin, and that curse threatens to make marriage hopelessly impossible.
moreover, he argues that “israelites from every age will believe in the christ when they see him coming again in his glory” (265).
by jmh on may 6, 2008 in for god's glory in christ by the spirit great preaching is inspiring.
the  things in that book got most of its authors killed, and when people have taken  it seriously in the history of the church, crazy things likethe reformation  have happened andsome folks even got themselves burned at the stake.
the word “apostle” is also used in the nt to describe those who were “sent out” from the churches, and these instances are generally translated along the lines of “messenger” (see, e.g, 2 cor 8:23;
check it out online, subscribe right away, and may the lord use this magazine to help us fix our eyes on jesus!
i often benefit from listening to inspiring preaching in my car on the way to school to teach–listening to john piper fires me up, reminds me of all that is at stake, points me to the greatness of god’s mercy in christ, and stimulates my thinking.
how it’s actually going to go i can’t really say.”
if i wanted to maintain the continuationist position, i would argue that the term “apostles” cannot be limited to this “closed circle of men” (the twelve minus judas plus matthias, paul, barnabas, james, and maybe jude) described in the new testament.
powered by wordpress | design & layout by g. a. dietrich
calvinism: a southern baptist dialogue.
having followed that recommendation, i am now passing it on, and i would also recommend having a listen (or multiple listens) to wenham’s lecture.
helm is also the executive director ofthe simeon trust, which kent hughes described when mark deverinterviewed him.
i understand the “gift” of “apostles” in both ephesians 4:11 and 1 corinthians 12:28 to be a gift of certain people.
i’ve got a wife and a tv set — and they’re both working.”
here is the text: the interpretation of the old testament in the new one sometimes hears people express a desire to know exactly what jesus said to the two men on the road to emmaus following his resurrection.
handout (five-page pdf) 2.