“one cannot underestimate the contribution smokin' joe and ali made to progress and change by creating the space, through their talent, for black men to be seen, visible and relevant.
you've got to  listen to him and listen to him clearly.
british promoter frank warren added, “he was part of that era of the best heavyweights there have ever been.
the courage smokin' joe showed in "the ‘thrilla  in manila’—answering every ali onslaught with an equally withering  response—will remain in the hearts and minds of boxing fans around the  globe forever.
the loss was ali's first, as frazier knocked him down  in the 15th round with his signature left hook and won by decision.
even though i was affiliated with the ali camp, joe always treated me with kindness and i really appreciated that.”
i was proud to have known and promoted him, and i was honored to call him a friend.
fellow russian heavyweight champions, vladimir and vitali klitschko, issued a statement; “he was a huge fighter, huge champion, huge personality.
joe frazier said you fight as long as you feel you can do it and win with dignity.
the words for joe  frazier this week were much like his signature punches, in relentless great  volume, but sadly, he is not here to appreciate them.
the trilogy of fights that he had with muhammad ali, the tough fight he had with george foreman and the good wins on the way – he was one of the most exciting heavyweights ever.
when you have a legend, people respond to a legend.”
those who were there were concerned by how frail frazier  looked.
mayweather has committed to such a gesture before,  earlier this year paying for the funeral of a one-time opponent, southland  former world champion, genaro hernandez.
mar 03, 2012 at  06:27 am front page  sports  boxing   joe  frazier, the man who beat muhammad ali joe frazier, the man who beat  muhammad ali written by kennith miller (sentinel  correspondent), on 11-09-2011 23:25 favoured 13 frazier and muhammad ali boxing world mourns its soul of sport: the pugilist known as  smokin’ joe frazier how ironic the death of boxing  great joe frazier  was reported during a nationally televised monday night  football game with his home town philadelphia eagles succumbing to the chicago  bears with their playoff hopes at stake.
when you have a legend, people  respond to a legend.”
his last such public appearance was at mayweather's last fight at the  mgm grand in las vegas.
british promoter frank  warren added, “he was part of that era of the best heavyweights there  have ever been.
"ali  didn't let on that he was nervous.
he  lost a decision to the skilled ali in the rematch, and then the pair engaged in  a war for the ages, the ‘thrilla in manila,’ in 1975.
it was a great lesson for all  new generations.”
legendary fighter bernard hopkins added; “about two or three years ago, everybody was asking me why i was fighting.
manny pacquiao offered,  “boxing lost a great champion, and the sport lost a great  ambassador.”
there was so  much tension in both of those camps.
check out the sentinel sports section on facebook and twitter.
their era was competitive fighting at  the highest level."
however, his death on monday night has touched millions, including a deep admirer of the sport's history, unbeaten world welterweight champion floyd mayweather jr.
one could say that without joe  frazier, the eagles had no punch left.
frazier had struggled  financially after his boxing career ended.
one could argue that ali would not have become the world icon that he is today without joe frazier.
the loss was ali's first, as frazier knocked him down in the 15th round with his signature left hook and won by decision.
their era was competitive fighting at the highest level."
“my sympathy goes out to his family and loved ones.”
it was one of the most dramatic fights in history.
it was a great lesson for all new generations.”
those few minutes were like an hour.
he added, "as a young fighter it has always been  an honor to be compared to frazier.
he was a top amateur for several years, and  became the only american fighter to win a gold medal in the 1964 olympics in  tokyo despite fighting in the final bout with an injured left thumb.
i was at hand's gym while i was in  philly.
his last such public appearance was at mayweather's last fight at the mgm grand in las vegas.
smokin' joe brought honor, dignity and pride for his people, the american people, and brought the nation together as only sports can do.”
there was so much tension in both of those camps.
the first fight with ali, at the time it was considered to be the biggest fight promotion of all time and it probably still is.
sentinel sports section facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/?ref=logo#!/pages/los-angeles-sentinel-sports-section/137328139648009 sentinel sports twitter page: twitter.com/lasentinelsport last update: 11-09-2011 23:28published in : sports, boxing no comment posted add your comment
born in beaufort, s.c., on jan. 12, 1944, frazier took up  boxing early after watching weekly fights on the black and white television on  his family’s small farm.
ali and frazier were both undefeated, ali had been on a forced hiatus for three-and-a-half years, and while he was gone, joe became what we knew as the undisputed heavyweight champion.”
on saturday, word came that he was receiving hospice care – near  death.
my family and i are sending our sincerest  condolences to the joe frazier family.
my family and i are sending our sincerest condolences to the joe frazier family.
frazier won the 1971 bout – called the ‘fight of the century’ – at madison square garden in new york, with an estimated 300 million watching at closed-circuit venues, according to his manager.
you've got to listen to him and listen to him clearly.
although the warrior inside smokin' joe wanted to answer the bell for the 15th and final round, his chief second and friend, eddie futch, acted as more than a corner man to step in, and refuse to let him continue, so that he could live to fight another day, and smoke 'em some more.
joe frazier said you fight as long as you feel you can do it  and win with dignity.
i will always remember joe with respect and admiration," said  ali, 69.
manny pacquiao offered, “boxing lost a great champion, and the sport lost a great ambassador.”
on twitter late tuesday after hearing of frazier's death, mayweather tweeted, "my condolences go out to the family of the late great joe frazier.
on saturday, word came that he was receiving hospice care – near death.
legendary promoter don king, who promoted joe frazier in the finale of frazier’s phenomenal trilogy with muhammad ali, 1975’s
but we studied and listened about this fighter a lot, and after that, we had a chance to see the fights.
but we studied and listened about this fighter a lot, and  after that, we had a chance to see the fights.
i was proud to have known and promoted him, and i was honored to  call him a friend.
legendary promoter don king, who promoted joe frazier in the finale of  frazier’s phenomenal trilogy with muhammad ali, 1975’s  ‘thrilla in manila,’ made the following statement from his south  florida home after learning last night of the death of his longtime friend:  “smokin’ joe frazier was the embodiment of what a great heavyweight  champion and person should be.
the ‘thrilla in manila’ helped make america  better.
tyson went to twitter and wrote, "frazier and ali were quintessential, the apex of pedigree fighting in which each man would not give an inch until they were dead.
" frazier’s nemesis, ali, issued a statement saying "the world has lost a great champion.
mayweather has committed to such a gesture before, earlier this year paying for the funeral of a one-time opponent, southland former world champion, genaro hernandez.
even  though i was affiliated with the ali camp, joe always treated me with kindness  and i really appreciated that.”
frazier won the 1971 bout – called the  ‘fight of the century’ – at madison square garden in new  york, with an estimated 300 million watching at closed-circuit venues,  according to his manager.
he lost a decision to the skilled ali in the rematch, and then the pair engaged in a war for the ages, the ‘thrilla in manila,’ in 1975.
sentinel sports section facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/?ref=logo#!/pages/los-angeles-sentinel-sports-section/137328139648009
i didn't have a chance to see  his fights live, because in 1971…the soviet union professional boxing  was forbidden.
on twitter late tuesday after hearing of  frazier's death, mayweather tweeted, "my condolences go out to the family  of the late great joe frazier.
the money team will pay for his funeral services."
he died on monday nov, 7th after a bout with liver cancer.
muhummad ali will forever be considered the media darling and the glitter of the sport of boxing, but ‘smokin’ joe frazier was the soul of the sport.
frazier had struggled financially after his boxing career ended.
" frazier’s  nemesis, ali, issued  a statement saying "the world has lost a great  champion.
tyson went to twitter and wrote, "frazier and  ali were quintessential, the apex of pedigree fighting in which each man would  not give an inch until they were dead.
people talk about mike tyson at the age of 21 – joe frazier, when he was a young fella, was every bit (as good as), if not better than, mike tyson.”
‘thrilla in manila,’ made the following statement from his south florida home after learning last night of the death of his longtime friend: “smokin’ joe frazier was the embodiment of what a great heavyweight champion and person should be.
the first fight with ali, at the time  it was considered to be the biggest fight promotion of all time and it probably  still is.
legendary fighter bernard  hopkins added; “about two or three years ago, everybody was asking me why  i was fighting.
he walked out of the  place.
i didn't have a chance to see his fights live, because in 1971…the soviet union professional boxing was forbidden.
the trilogy of fights that he had with muhammad ali, the tough  fight he had with george foreman and the good wins on the way – he was  one of the most exciting heavyweights ever.
“one cannot  underestimate the contribution smokin' joe and ali made to progress and change  by creating the space, through their talent, for black men to be seen, visible  and relevant.
although the warrior inside smokin' joe wanted to answer the bell for the 15th  and final round, his chief second and friend, eddie futch, acted as more than a  corner man to step in, and refuse to let him continue, so that he could live to  fight another day, and smoke 'em some more.
the money team will pay for his funeral  services."
the courage smokin' joe showed in "the ‘thrilla in manila’—answering every ali onslaught with an equally withering response—will remain in the hearts and minds of boxing fans around the globe forever.
he died on  monday nov, 7th after a bout with liver cancer.
ali and frazier were both undefeated, ali had been on a forced hiatus  for three-and-a-half years, and while he was gone, joe became what we knew as  the undisputed heavyweight champion.”
as news of his death spread like a forest fire, the boxing community took to social media to display their affection to a man who never got the respect that he rightfully deserved while alive.
when  smokin’ joe came to the ring, you knew you had someone who was coming to  fight.
i was at hand's gym while i was in philly.
muhummad ali will forever be  considered the media darling and the glitter of the sport of boxing, but  ‘smokin’ joe frazier was the soul of the sport.
he was a great gladiator.
"this was it for both of them, the end of the world, a war that neither could lose," the fight's co-promoter, bob arum, said.
when smokin’ joe came to the ring, you knew you had someone who was coming to fight.
smokin' joe brought honor, dignity and pride for his people, the  american people, and brought the nation together as only sports can do.”
the ‘thrilla in manila’ helped make america better.
those who were there were concerned by how frail frazier looked.
he lived as he fought with courage and commitment at a time when african americans in all spheres of life were engaged in a struggle for emancipation and respect.
he made public appearances to earn income, such as one just this summer at saratoga race track in new york to commemorate the 40-year anniversary of the first fight in his epic trilogy against muhammad ali.
“not only was he a great fighter but also a great man.
"ali didn't let on that he was nervous.
one could argue  that ali would not have become the world icon that he is today without joe  frazier.
he was a top amateur for several years, and became the only american fighter to win a gold medal in the 1964 olympics in tokyo despite fighting in the final bout with an injured left thumb.
he made public appearances  to earn income, such as one just this summer at saratoga race track in new york  to commemorate the 40-year anniversary of the first fight in his epic trilogy  against muhammad ali.
mike tyson, who, more than any other fighter, fought similar to frazier, issued a statement – calling joe's passing a "sad day" ... but saying “we should honor him by celebrating his accomplishments."
he walked out of the place.
i will always remember joe with respect and admiration," said ali, 69.
you can't believe it." arum, who will be promoting manny pacquiao’s mega fight on saturday in las vegas, told the sentinel; “joe was a great guy and proud warrior.
the words for joe frazier this week were much like his signature punches, in relentless great volume, but sadly, he is not here to appreciate them.
born in beaufort, s.c., on jan. 12, 1944, frazier took up boxing early after watching weekly fights on the black and white television on his family’s small farm.
people talk about mike tyson at the  age of 21 – joe frazier, when he was a young fella, was every bit (as  good as), if not better than, mike tyson.”
he added, "as a young fighter it has always been an honor to be compared to frazier.
frazier’s business manager leslie wolff reflected, “if you look into the history of what took place, there is a lot of emotion.
i told him i could and that i was in great shape.
however, his death on monday night has touched millions,  including a deep admirer of the sport's history, unbeaten world welterweight  champion floyd mayweather jr.
he lived  as he fought with courage and commitment at a time when african americans in  all spheres of life were engaged in a struggle for emancipation and  respect.
you can't believe it." arum,  who will be promoting manny pacquiao’s mega fight on saturday in las  vegas, told the sentinel; “joe was a great guy and proud warrior.
smokin’ joe frazier frazier and muhammad ali boxing world mourns its soul of sport: the pugilist known as smokin’ joe frazier how ironic the death of boxing great joe frazier was reported during a nationally televised monday night football game with his home town philadelphia eagles succumbing to the chicago bears with their playoff hopes at stake.
as news of his death  spread like a forest fire, the boxing community took to social media to display  their affection to a man who never got the respect that he rightfully deserved  while alive.
mike tyson, who, more than any other fighter,  fought similar to frazier, issued a statement – calling joe's passing a  "sad day" ... but saying “we should honor him by celebrating  his accomplishments."
george foreman’s longtime publicist bill kaplan said; “he was a very fun guy and he was a great fighter.
"this was it for both of them, the end of the world, a war that  neither could lose," the fight's co-promoter, bob arum, said.
george foreman’s longtime publicist bill kaplan said; “he was a  very fun guy and he was a great fighter.
fellow russian heavyweight  champions, vladimir and vitali klitschko, issued a statement; “he was a  huge fighter, huge champion, huge personality.
frazier’s  business manager leslie wolff reflected, “if you look into the history of  what took place, there is a lot of emotion.
one could say that without joe frazier, the eagles had no punch left.