kk2000 could have been a very good game, but everything starting from the graphics engine to the game mechanics is so bungled that it leaveskk2000 down for the count.- published november 9, 1999 amazon.com recommendations
after choosing other boxers, i found nothing new that i didn't experience  with my first fight.
it was  supposed to be the first true boxing simulation, allowing me to play as the  best fighters to ever grace the boxing ring.
and while watching muhammad ali, the greatest boxer  in history, pulling off a move like this is one thing, seeing frazier do a back  flip after the punch is another and i decided i had enough.
it went on like this for a few seconds before i realized that we were just trading punches.
ea went out and secured the license for all the great boxers (sans iron  mike) and put them in the game.
instead, it wound up being an  updated version ofbuster douglas (remember him?)
the feel  of vicious punches was missing, the characters moved too slowly, and none of  the fighters distinguished themselves.
before i knew it, my punch meter was full and i knew that i could do some kind of "super punch."
i anxiously rushed frazier and proceeded with a flurry of rights and lefts that were sure, i thought, to do damage and leave him stunned.
true boxing fans should definitely stay away.
it's apparent right from the beginning that kk2000 wants to be a sim.
and again, the result was not what i expected because half my punches (as lethal as they were) completely missed their target, even at point blank range.
my ali-frazier fight didn't turn out as i had hoped.
as the game intro winds down we see in-game footage of ali pulverizing an  unidentified boxer.
the only true representative  from the boxing world was mills lane (how sad is that?).kk2000 is an  improvement over the originalkk, which says more about the sheer  mediocrity ofkk than about any greatness of its sequel.
unfortunately, videogame publishers have not been too cooperative.
kk2000 lacked damn near every-thing i saw in  those legendary fights with the exception of the fighters themselves.
kk2000 becomes an example  of disregarding the player for the sake of landing a license; i would wager  that thekk engine had long existed before the licenses were secured and  was ported over from some generic boxing game.
- published november 9, 1999 amazon.com  recommendations purchases made through these links help support this  web site.
i won the fight, but  it was a hollow victory.
consumer advice esrb rating: teen (13+)  animated violence true boxing fans should definitely stay away.
well i've played it  and by the end of the review, you'll know whether ea sports is a comeback kid  or whether they should just throw in the towel.
you can't imagine how disheartening it was to see sugar ray leonard move and fight almost exactly like eric "butterbean" esch.
but what actually happened was that after a vicious right hook, frazier came back immediately with a right hook of his own.
and if all those press releases from ea were even half-true, thenkk2000 could pull it off.
that was probably the most fun i had playing this game, but it was short-lived because of all the flaws i mentioned above and the fact that all create-a-player features get old.
as the game intro winds down we see in-game footage of ali pulverizing an unidentified boxer.
when i tried it again, we wound up exchanging punches again to the point where i thought i watching a digital version ofrock'em sock'em robots.
ea sports picked itself up off the mat and came back with a sequel (imaginatively enough)
and while watching muhammad ali, the greatest boxer in history, pulling off a move like this is one thing, seeing frazier do a back flip after the punch is another and i decided i had enough.
i know the lineup in  this games makes it extremely tempting, but the resulting game is a chore to  play and will only disappoint.
to its credit, black ops has created some excellent-looking  3d representations of boxing's greats but i wasted little time in choosing  muhammad ali with joe frazier as my opponent and caesar's palace as the  battleground.
but originally, i paid that no mind and went on through to the boxer  selection screen.
i used every punch available and lit  into frazier with a vengeance.
it's obviously supposed to showcase the game (and ali), but  with the slow overall look of the action and the horrible collision detection,  it actually becomes an omen for what is to come.
while it may come off as below-average as compared to other gamers, it worked into the career mode wonderfully.
if you're dying for a boxing fix, then own the playstation version.
the playstation version includes 50 boxers compared to the n64's 25 and is a much truer simulation than the n64 version.
but what actually  happened was that after a vicious right hook, frazier came back immediately  with a right hook of his own.
the ones that come to mind are the old  school battles between muhammad ali and joe frazier; which were nothing short  of epic.
the only true representative from the boxing world was mills lane (how sad is that?).kk2000 is an improvement over the originalkk, which says more about the sheer mediocrity ofkk than about any greatness of its sequel.
they were oftentimes blocked or frazier would simply move  out of the way
some of you may dig the ring babes in thong bikinis.
ea  sports picked itself up off the mat and came back with a sequel (imaginatively  enough)
i used every punch available and lit into frazier with a vengeance.
after choosing other boxers, i found nothing new that i didn't experience with my first fight.
while it may come  off as below-average as compared to other gamers, it worked into the career  mode wonderfully.
it was at this  point that the bell rang and i was declared the winner.
however, i had already given up on the match of the century and decided to go through the rest of the game.
entitledknockout kings 2000 (kk2000).
but originally, i paid that no mind and went on through to the boxer selection screen.
i know the lineup in this games makes it extremely tempting, but the resulting game is a chore to play and will only disappoint.
and again, the result was not what i expected  because half my punches (as lethal as they were) completely missed their  target, even at point blank range.
arcade boxing fans should get a dreamcast (if you don't already have one) and get ready 2 rumble.
it  looked like something out ofsoul calibur (complete with a colored  inertia trail) and had me scratching my head as to why it would be in a boxing  sim.
ever since i first saw those fights, i've been dying to get into the ring and try my hands at recreating some of those matches in a video game.
well i've played it and by the end of the review, you'll know whether ea sports is a comeback kid or whether they should just throw in the towel.
all the boxers, yes all 25 of them, fought with all the  pepper of a loaf of bread and had almost identical animations.
whatever was in the game to add realism  was negated by the over-the-top arcade elements.
arcade boxing fans should get a dreamcast (if you don't already have one) and get ready 2
i didn't think much of it then so i just backed off and decided to try out the signature moves mapped onto the four c-buttons.
it's apparent right from the beginning that kk2000 wants to be a  sim.
when i tried it again, we wound up  exchanging punches again to the point where i thought i watching a digital  version ofrock'em sock'em robots.
kk2000 could have been a very good game, but everything starting from the graphics  engine to the game mechanics is so bungled that it leaveskk2000 down for  the count.
some of the greatest events in sports history have been boxing matches.
and i was left to wait for the motion-captured animation to end and get pummeled, because i was left totally open for an attack.
however, i had already  given up on the match of the century and decided to go through the rest of the  game.
once i got past the introductions and got the blessing of  mills lane (who looks and sounds like the real thing), the fight began.
kk2000 becomes an example of disregarding the player for the sake of landing a license; i would wager that thekk engine had long existed before the licenses were secured and was ported over from some generic boxing game.
i was pleasantly surprised to see ali pull off his trademark  showboating and punches, but what bothered me about those moves was how little  they actually helped.
before i knew it, my  punch meter was full and i knew that i could do some kind of "super  punch.
it went on like this for a few seconds before i  realized that we were just trading punches.
you can't  imagine how disheartening it was to see sugar ray leonard move and fight almost  exactly like eric "butterbean" esch.
i've seen just about all of them on highlight films and they've always been  touted as "the battle of the century" and, to be honest, a few of  them actually lived up to the hype.
i could create a boxer, train him, and build him up into a  championship contender.
ea went out and secured the license for all the great boxers (sans iron mike) and put them in the game.
and it landed with  similar results; i tried it again and it landed again.
what managed to save the game though was its create-a-player feature and the career mode.
casual boxing fans dying to take on the boxing world as your favorite boxer should rent this game first.
all the boxers, yes all 25 of them, fought with all the pepper of a loaf of bread and had almost identical animations.
it was supposed to be the first true boxing simulation, allowing me to play as the best fighters to ever grace the boxing ring.
i won the fight, but it was a hollow victory.
kk2000 lacked damn near every-thing i saw in those legendary fights with the exception of the fighters themselves.
they have  insisted on releasing games that were flashy and cartoony spin-offs of punchout, which hit the arcades in the 1980's.
i'm sure that black ops thought this too when they finished their design document, but from the conception phase to the production phase, they seemed to have gotten off-track in a big way.
so you can understand my excitement when i first heard aboutknockout kings (kk).
i've seen just about all of them on highlight films and they've always been touted as "the battle of the century" and, to be honest, a few of them actually lived up to the hype.
they used a new face wrapping technology that  allows for realistic-looking facial textures to be used for each boxer and  black ops copied each boxer's signature moves for even more authenticity.
add a point system (to tally your performance during a bout) and a training mode, and you have the makings of a great boxing game.
and i was left to wait for the motion-captured animation to end  and get pummeled, because i was left totally open for an attack.
what managed to save the game  though was its create-a-player feature and the career mode.
i was dying to see some kind of vicious flurry of blows or something characteristic of ali, instead what i saw was a ridiculous,mortal kombat-style uppercut.
so you can understand my  excitement when i first heard aboutknockout kings (kk).
i  anxiously rushed frazier and proceeded with a flurry of rights and lefts that  were sure, i thought, to do damage and leave him stunned.
there are also key bonuses only available on  the playstation like boxer bios, a 'classic fights' option and even a music  video.
when i finally was able to block, i absorbed frazier's assault and  proceeded to launch an assault of my own.
it was here that i was not paying  attention and frazier caught me with a vicious roundhouse punch (a punch that  is performed by hitting the punch button while holding down the r button).
anticipation was high and, i must admit, so were my expectations.
i could only  tell them apart by their signature moves and that got old quickly.
that was probably the most fun i had playing this game,  but it was short-lived because of all the flaws i mentioned above and the fact  that all create-a-player features get old.
i'm sure that black ops thought  this too when they finished their design document, but from the conception  phase to the production phase, they seemed to have gotten off-track in a big  way.
it looked like something out ofsoul
the feel of vicious punches was missing, the characters moved too slowly, and none of the fighters distinguished themselves.
instead, it wound up being an updated version ofbuster douglas (remember him?)
it's obviously supposed to showcase the game (and ali), but with the slow overall look of the action and the horrible collision detection, it actually becomes an omen for what is to come.
when i finally was able to block, i absorbed frazier's assault and proceeded to launch an assault of my own.
there are also key bonuses only available on the playstation like boxer bios, a 'classic fights' option and even a music video.
the ones that come to mind are the old school battles between muhammad ali and joe frazier; which were nothing short of epic.
once i got past the introductions and got the blessing of mills lane (who looks and sounds like the real thing), the fight began.
i could only tell them apart by their signature moves and that got old quickly.
i was pleasantly surprised to see ali pull off his trademark showboating and punches, but what bothered me about those moves was how little they actually helped.
and it landed with similar results; i tried it again and it landed again.
they have insisted on releasing games that were flashy and cartoony spin-offs of punchout, which hit the arcades in the 1980's.
if you're  dying for a boxing fix, then own the playstation version.
i could create a boxer, train him, and build him up into a championship contender.
casual boxing fans dying to take on the  boxing world as your favorite boxer should rent this game first.
i didn't think much of it then so i  just backed off and decided to try out the signature moves mapped onto the four  c-buttons.
they were oftentimes blocked or frazier would simply move out of the way
calibur (complete with a colored inertia trail) and had me scratching my head as to why it would be in a boxing sim.
it was here that i was not paying attention and frazier caught me with a vicious roundhouse punch (a punch that is performed by hitting the punch button while holding down the r button).
it was at this point that the bell rang and i was declared the winner.
add a  point system (to tally your performance during a bout) and a training mode, and  you have the makings of a great boxing game.
to its credit, black ops has created some excellent-looking 3d representations of boxing's greats but i wasted little time in choosing muhammad ali with joe frazier as my opponent and caesar's palace as the battleground.
ever since i first saw those fights, i've been dying to get into the  ring and try my hands at recreating some of those matches in a video game.
i was dying to see some kind of vicious flurry of blows or  something characteristic of ali, instead what i saw was a ridiculous,mortal  kombat-style uppercut.
the playstation  version includes 50 boxers compared to the n64's 25 and is a much truer  simulation than the n64 version.
whatever was in the game to add realism was negated by the over-the-top arcade elements.
but i wanted to win this fight so i tried it myself
they used a new face wrapping technology that allows for realistic-looking facial textures to be used for each boxer and black ops copied each boxer's signature moves for even more authenticity.