sports gallery quality framed, the 11x14 display  includes sga floating plate while the 8x10 display is asports gallery exclusive  presentation that commemorates manny's fillipino heritage and impressive boxing  accomplishments.
he is also the former wbc world lightweight champion, wbc world super featherweight champion, ibf world super bantamweight champion, and wbc world flyweight champion.
"pac-man" as manny is known, is currently the wbo world welterweight champion, ibo and ring magazine light welterweight champion and is rated by ring magazine as the #1 pound-for-pound boxer in the world.
and the people love him.
quickly ascending as one of the most popular athletes in the world, manny collectibles have easily become our most in-demand items...they do not hang on the walls in our galleries very long at all.
a great gift for any sports fan.
[click on image to enlarge] muhammad ali trunks display (black) $3,995 sold  this limited edition muhammad ali trunks display includes silk black trunks (rare) signed by ali in sliver, the award-winning photograph of ali standing over sonny liston after his first round, first minute knockout in 1965 and a commemorative plaque describing this historic moment.
[click on image to enlarge] muhammad ali autographed glove display $3,995 this unique display not  only includes an ali hand-signed everlastboxing glove but also the classic,  award-winning photograph of his first round, first minuteknock-out of sonny  liston.
in 1971 frazier and ali, both undefeated as professionals, met in one of the  most ballyhooed matches in boxing history.
in-store signings about us contact us site map contact us info@sportsgalleryweb.com or 650.324.3355
frazier was the 1964  olympic heavyweight champion and the world hevyweight champion from 1970 to  1973.
web store baseball basketball boxing football golf hockey soccer panoramics other web specials!
sports gallery quality framed, the 11x14 display includes sga floating plate while the 8x10 display is asports gallery exclusive presentation that commemorates manny's fillipino heritage and impressive boxing accomplishments.
he is also the former wbc world lightweight  champion, wbc world super featherweight champion, ibf world super bantamweight  champion, and wbc world flyweight champion.
muhammad ali's famous quote "float like a butterfly, sting like a bee..." is followed by the line "the heavyweight champion should be pretty like me."
a great gift for any  boxing fan.
timeless pieces ofsports
that night at madison square garden frazier knocked ali down with a left hook in the 15th round and won a unanimous decision that made hime the undisputed champion of the world.
later, ali said, "it was the closest i've come to death." "in training" 8x10 w/ fp "in training" 8x10 display [click on images to enlarge] manny pacquiao new!
ali took the early rounds, before frazier found his rhythm in the middle frames and attacked the champs body with both hands.
by the end of the 14th  both fighters were exhausted, but frazier's eyes were nearly swollen shut, and  his corner stopped the bout.
the filipino boxing superstar  is the first boxer to win seven world titles in seven different weight  divisions.
intended to be wall-mounted, this  case is 16" wide x 23" tall x 6" deep and weighs approximately  15 lbs.
this classic photographs show a menacing ali  standing over a knocked out sonny liston - a first round, first minute knockout  in 1965 for the heavyweight crown.
later, ali said, "it was the closest i've  come to death." "in training" 8x10 w/ fp "in training" 8x10 display [click on images to enlarge] manny pacquiao new!
he was the first boxer to win  the world heavyweight boxing championship title three different times.
[why your online transaction is safe] more pacquiao...o boxing trunks did you know?
quickly  ascending as one of the most popular athletes in the world, manny collectibles  have easily become our most in-demand items...they do not hang on the walls in  our galleries very long at all.
manny is as special a boxer as the sport has seen in a long, long time.
[why your online transaction is safe] more ali vs. liston...
[why your online transaction is safe] manny glove (blue)
arguably his most impressive...and famous.. fight.
over sonny liston color & b&w (unsigned) 16x20 & 8x10
also, manny is the former ring magazine featherweight and super featherweight champion.
after  winning a gold medal as a light heavyweight at the 1960 olympic games, he  turned professional.
these awesome hand-signed photos of manny in action are a case in point.
he was the first boxer to win the world heavyweight boxing championship title three different times.
joe was most famous however for his three epic bouts with muhammad ali.
never did ali look  more likethe greatest of all time than in this 1965
heavyweight championship bout.
and legendary boxing promoter bob arum, who worked with muhammad ali and marvin hagler to name a few, calls manny"the best fighter i've ever seen.
photograph "in training" 8x10  photograph display manny pacquiao is boxing at the moment.
quickly ascending as one of  the most popular athletes in the world, manny collectibles have easily become  some of our most popular items...we do not have any in our galleries for very  long. .
the great  sugar ray leonard calls manny a"boxing superstar."
the autographed glove and classic photograph are presented in o ur highest quality display case.
| web store | baseball | basketball | boxing | football | golf | hockey | |   soccer | other | store directory |
in 1964 he made good his claim of being"the  greatest"; after only 20 professional fights he became world heavyweight  champion.
| web store | baseball | basketball | boxing | football | golf | hockey | | soccer | other | store directory |
this 33" w x  30"h display makes an excellent and unique gift for the boxing and/or ali  enthusiast in your life.
the case includes an easy opening mahogany-framed door, green suede matting, uv-protective conservation glass for sunlight/fading protection, and safety locks (with keys).
the great sugar ray leonard calls manny a"boxing superstar."
and legendary boxing promoter bob arum, who worked with muhammad ali and marvin hagler to name a few, calls manny"the best fighter i've ever seen."
timeless pieces ofsports art -   both are great collectibles from"the greatest" and a wonderful gift  for that special sports fan!
"pac-man" as  manny is known, is currently the wbo world welterweight champion, ibo and ring  magazine light welterweight champion and is rated by ring magazine as the #1  pound-for-pound boxer in the world.
muhammad ali's  famous quote "float like a butterfly, sting like a bee..." is  followed by the line "the heavyweight champion should be pretty like  me."
photograph "in training" 8x10 photograph display manny pacquiao is boxing at the moment.
never did ali look more likethe greatest of all time than in this 1965
w/  floating plate muhammad ali is boxing.
in addition, he is the only boxer to win the lineal  championship ("the man who beat the man") in four different weight  classes.
ali took the early rounds, before frazier found his rhythm in the  middle frames and attacked the champs body with both hands.
sponsorships online shopping what's it worth?
the only boxer to really go toe to toe with ali, this vintage 8x10 photograph of "smokin' joe" is hand-signed by frazier and tastefully framed and matted.
custom made, this is is a beautiful piece of sports art that would look good in any office or den.
in the suffocating heat in quezon city,  just outside the philippines capital of manila, joe frazier and muhammad ali  dueled for 14 rounds in a 1975 bout ali billed "the thrilla in  manila."
oh and pacquiao has participated in politics, acting, filmmaking, and music recording.
custom made, this is is a beautiful piece of sports art that would look  good in any office or den.
[why your  online transaction is safe] more pacquiao...o boxing trunks did you know?
"pac-man" as manny is known, is  currently the wbo world welterweight champion, ibo and ring magazine light  welterweight champion and is rated by ring magazine as the #1 pound-for-pound  boxer in the world.
w/ floating plate muhammad ali is boxing.
this 33" w x 30"h display makes an excellent and unique gift for the boxing and/or ali enthusiast in your life.
by the end of the 14th both fighters were exhausted, but frazier's eyes were nearly swollen shut, and his corner stopped the bout.
this classic photographs show a menacing ali standing over a knocked out sonny liston - a first round, first minute knockout in 1965 for the heavyweight crown.
perhaps the most famous image of arguably the most famous athlete in  sports history are these beauties.
[why your online transaction is safe] manny glove (blue) [click on images to enlarge] manny pacquiao new!
manny glove (red) [click on images to enlarge] manny pacquiao new!
after winning a gold medal as a light heavyweight at the 1960 olympic games, he turned professional.
in 1971 frazier and ali, both undefeated as professionals, met in one of the most ballyhooed matches in boxing history.
[why your online transaction is safe] did you know?
availabe both in color and b&w, both are quality framed and include sga floating plate commemorating this famous  "first round, first minute" knockout!
| top | boxing glove cases | find it!
but ali turned the tide for good in the 10th and won the next four rounds.
the third bout  between the two, the "thrilla in manila," is considered by many  boxing pundits to be the greatest fight ever.
he won 32 professional fights, 27 by knockout; lost 4, 3 by knockout; and fought 1 draw.
manny is as special a boxer as the"sweet science" of boxing has seen in a long, long time.
autographed gloves - red & blue manny pacquiao is boxing at the moment.
the great sugar ray leonard calls manny a"boxing  superstar."
we have many more unique boxing collectibles in our galleries than are shown on this page so if you don't see what you are looking for please let us help you find it!
heavyweight championship  bout.
[why your online transaction is safe] [click on image to enlarge] joe frazier $349 sold  known as "smokin' joe" because of his style of constantly boring in and throwing punches, frazier didn't have a great knockout punch, but he wore opponents down with his relentless attack.
in addition, he is the only boxer to win the lineal championship ( "the man who beat the man") in four different weight classes.
oh and  pacquiao has participated in politics, acting, filmmaking, and music recording.
$429 manny pacquiao glove (blue) $429 manny pacquiao glove (red) [why your online transaction is safe] more pacquiao...o photographs [click on image to enlarge] muhammad ali new!
the third bout between the two, the "thrilla in manila," is considered by many boxing pundits to be the greatest fight ever.
the case includes an easy opening mahogany-framed  door, green suede matting, uv-protective conservation glass for sunlight/fading  protection, and safety locks (with keys).
a great gift for any boxing fan.
the filipino boxing superstar is the first boxer to win seven world titles in seven different weight divisions.
in 1964 he made good his claim of being"the greatest"; after only 20 professional fights he became world heavyweight champion.
[click on image to enlarge] muhammad ali trunks display  (black) $3,995 sold  this limited edition muhammad ali trunks display includes silk black trunks  (rare) signed by ali in sliver, the award-winning photograph of ali standing  over sonny liston after his first round, first minute knockout in 1965 and a  commemorative plaque describing this historic moment.
quickly ascending as one of the most popular athletes in the world, manny collectibles have easily become some of our most popular items...we do not have any in our galleries for very long. .
in addition, he is the only boxer to win the lineal championship ("the man who beat the man") in four different weight classes.
but hurry, we only have avery limited number in our galleries.
and legendary boxing promoter bob arum, who worked with  muhammad ali and marvin hagler to name a few, calls manny"the best fighter  i've ever seen."
visit us at&t park mountain view, ca palo alto, ca san ramon, ca unique cases custom framing home > boxing boxing | gloves | photos | trunks | boxing cases | please note: the prices and availability on all items presented on this website are subject to change.
autographed gloves - red & blue manny pacquiao is boxing at  the moment.
the filipino boxing  superstar is the first boxer to win seven world titles in seven different  weight divisions.
manny is as special a boxer as the"sweet science"  of boxing has seen in a long, long time.
frazier was the 1964 olympic heavyweight champion and the world hevyweight champion from 1970 to 1973.
also, manny is the former ring magazine  featherweight and super featherweight champion.
he won 32 professional fights, 27 by  knockout; lost 4, 3 by knockout; and fought 1 draw.
manny is as special a boxer as the sport has  seen in a long, long time.
$149 ali/liston color 16x20 w/ fp $99.95 ali/liston color 8x10 w/ fp $149 ali/liston b&w 16x20 w/ fp $99.95 ali/liston b&w 8x10 w/ fp
art - both are great collectibles from"the greatest" and a wonderful gift for that special sports fan!
in the suffocating heat in quezon city, just outside the philippines capital of manila, joe frazier and muhammad ali dueled for 14 rounds in a 1975 bout ali billed "the thrilla in manila."
$429 manny pacquiao glove (blue) $429 manny pacquiao glove (red) [why your online transaction is safe] more pacquiao...o [click on image to enlarge] muhammad ali new!
the only boxer to really go toe  to toe with ali, this vintage 8x10 photograph of "smokin' joe" is  hand-signed by frazier and tastefully framed and matted.
but ali turned the  tide for good in the 10th and won the next four rounds.
$359 manny "in training" 11x14 w/ fp $299 pacquiao "in training" 8x10 display
also, manny is the former ring  magazine featherweight and super featherweight champion.
these awesome hand-signed photos of manny in  action are a case in point.
the autographed glove and classic photograph are presented in o ur  highest quality display case.
$359 manny "in  training" 11x14 w/ fp $299 pacquiao
[why your online transaction is  safe] more ali vs. liston...
intended to be wall-mounted, this case is 16" wide x 23" tall x 6" deep and weighs approximately 15 lbs.
[why your online transaction is safe] [click on image to enlarge] joe frazier $349 sold  known as  "smokin' joe" because of his style of constantly boring in and  throwing punches, frazier didn't have a great knockout punch, but he wore  opponents down with his relentless attack.
oh and pacquiao has participated in politics, acting, filmmaking, and  music recording.
and legendary  boxing promoter bob arum, who worked with muhammad ali and marvin hagler  to name a few, calls manny"the best fighter i've ever seen."
gift ideas under $100 new collectibles gift certificate immortal moments display/framing custom framing display cases services auctions create it!
important links authenticity web security shipping contact us boxing gloves [click on image to enlarge] muhammad ali autographed glove display $3,995 this unique display not only includes an ali hand-signed everlastboxing glove but also the classic, award-winning photograph of his first round, first minuteknock-out of sonny liston.
perhaps the most famous image of arguably the most famous athlete in sports history are these beauties.
he is also the former wbc world lightweight champion, wbc  world super featherweight champion, ibf world super bantamweight champion, and  wbc world flyweight champion.
that night at madison square garden  frazier knocked ali down with a left hook in the 15th round and won a unanimous  decision that made hime the undisputed champion of the world.
availabe both in color and b&w, both are quality framed and include sga floating plate commemorating this famous "first round, first minute" knockout!
"in training" 8x10 display
these awesome gloves, one red and one blue, are hand-signed by manny.