it is an often used term inmixed martial arts circles, as mixed martial arts fighters tend to combine and draw from several different stand up fighting disciplines.
- anderson silva: silva is widely considered to be one of the best mma strikers ever.
suggested reading - what are martial arts?
a part of the new york times company.
muhammad ali: ali is widely known to be one of the greatest boxers,  if not the greatest boxer, of all-time.
upper block five great martial arts strikers it would be impossible to put together a list of the greatest strikers of  all time, as there are too many variables between all the disciplines to  compare.
- about.com - sports - martial arts martial arts search free martial arts newsletter!
bruce lee : beyond his legendary martial arts film career, lee was  also ahead of his time when it came to striking.
- muhammad ali: ali is widely known to be one of the greatest boxers, if not the greatest boxer, of all-time.
he engaged in both karate and kickboxing.
joe lewis: lewis was voted the greatest karate fighter of all-time  by karate illustrated in 1983.
thus, all striking styles are hardly created equal.
his three fights with joe frazier were the stuff of legends.
therefore, striking better encompasses what they do on their feet than terms like karate or muay thai.
along with this, he invented  the martial arts style ofjeet kune do , one that did away with tradition and  concentrated only on what worked in real fighting.
see more about: - ufc 143 results - the best type of martial arts - ufc 143 predictions - gina carano pictures - jackie chan movies
- boxing - capoeira - goju ryu karate - karate - kenpo - kickboxing - krav maga - kung fu - kyokushin karate - muay thai - shaolin kung fu - shotokan karate - tae kwon
sign up - martial arts - mma - styles & instruction - heroes & movies discuss in my forum striking in martial arts
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
by robert rousseau, about.com guide see more about: kristian dowling/getty images - martial arts styles - types of martial arts - karate - kung fu - muay thai
by category - martial arts styles - types of martial arts - karate - kung fu - muay thai - martial arts basics - styles - training - youth martial arts - mma & ufc - health & fitness - equipment & weapons - tournaments - being an instructor - martial arts culture martial arts - about.com - sports - martial arts - martial arts basics - martial arts striking – striking in martial arts also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - exercise database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
the term striking inmartial arts generally refers to stand up fighting, or everything that’s not grappling (though strikes can be executed on the ground as well).
anderson silva: silva is widely considered to be one of the best  mma strikers ever.
mirko "cro cop" filipovic: filipovic is known to be one  of the greatest mma strikers of all-time.
do - tang soo do - wing chun striking tutorials if you're looking to learn some striking techniques, you've come to the right place.
eachmartial arts style, however, does this in its own unique way.
check out some tutorials below by following the links.
coming from a kickboxing background, his ability to deliver top flight high kicks helped to revolutionize the sport.
- joe lewis: lewis was voted the greatest karate fighter of all-time by karate illustrated in 1983.
his three fights with joe frazier were  the stuff of legends.
robert rousseau martial arts guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches legendary martial arts martial arts style ali ali martial arts film joe frazier muhammad ali explore martial arts must reads most popular - the best type of martial arts - know your martial arts styles - upcoming ufc 144 results - ufc 144 predictions - the best martial arts school?
what the striking styles teach the striking styles in martial arts teach practitioners to defend themselves while in the upright position.
still, here are five guys whose names are synonymous with striking.
- mirko "cro cop" filipovic: filipovic is known to be one of the greatest mma strikers of all-time.
striking styles the striking martial arts styles are a part of almost every culture.
- bruce lee : beyond his legendary martial arts film career, lee was also ahead of his time when it came to striking.
they do this through the use of punches, kicks, knees, and blocks.
along with this, he invented the martial arts style ofjeet kune do , one that did away with tradition and concentrated only on what worked in real fighting.
that said, here are some of the more popular ones being practiced in the world today.
- clinch - front kick - make a punching fist - reverse punch - side kick - spinning back kick - upper block five great martial arts strikers it would be impossible to put together a list of the greatest strikers of all time, as there are too many variables between all the disciplines to compare.
coming from a kickboxing background,  his ability to deliver top flight high kicks helped to revolutionize the sport.
his muay thai clinch is known to be particularly brutal for opponents.
- martial arts styles - best type of martial arts striking styles related articles - styles & instruction - learn about martial arts styles and instruction - ben henderson interview - ben henderson interview - ben henderson talks jam... - martial arts submissions – submissions in martial arts - art glossary naive --
his muay thai clinch is known to be particularly brutal for  opponents.
art glossary definition naive painting style - clip art - what is clip art?