users can add rss feeds to their my yahoo! page.
an outwardly fresh and smiling ali then left the safety of  the ropes and started a vicious counter-attack with jabs and hooks, most  landing squarely on foreman’s head.
sensing victory, ali hit foreman with  a left hook that teed up his head for a straight right hand that instantly  turned out his lights.
by round five, foreman was exhausted from throwing ineffective punches and from ali’s lightning-quick jabs to his head and personal taunts like, “george, is that all you’ve got?”
many aggregators are separate, "stand-alone" programs; other services will let you add rss feeds to a web page.
by round  five, foreman was exhausted from throwing ineffective punches and from  ali’s lightning-quick jabs to his head and personal taunts like,  “george, is that all you’ve got?”
muhammad  ali, arguably the best boxer who ever stepped into the squared circle, was  pitted against then-world champion george foreman in kinshasa, zaire, 34 years  ago this month.
the consensus among handicappers was that younger and undefeated foreman packed the harder punch and entered the ring a heavy favorite.
while watching mccain’s histrionics, my mind wandered back to  another historic fight—the “rumble in the jungle.”
ali either leaned into his opponent, neutralizing foreman from throwing a big right hand, or was covered up and resting against the ropes.
foreman later called the fight “a sweaty old boxing match which i lost,” but it was the start of much more than that.
it occurred to me that there are interesting parallels linking  that famous brawl and the daily tussles of the presidential contenders.
foreman was completely  flummoxed by an opponent who was unwilling to stand toe-to-toe and be pounded  into submission.
subscribe | renew | archivesadvanced search october 15, 2008 dr. robert peltier, pepages: 1 2 republican presidential candidate john mccain made reference to the word “fight” 25 times during his september 4 nomination acceptance speech.
foreman was completely flummoxed by an opponent who was unwilling to stand toe-to-toe and be pounded into submission.
an outwardly fresh and smiling ali then left the safety of the ropes and started a vicious counter-attack with jabs and hooks, most landing squarely on foreman’s head.
muhammad ali, arguably the best boxer who ever stepped into the squared circle, was pitted against then-world champion george foreman in kinshasa, zaire, 34 years ago this month.
current issue | jobs | buyers' guide | contact hot topics : water | wind | instrumentation & controls october 15, 2008 dr. robert peltier, pe pages: 1 2 republican presidential candidate john mccain made reference to the word  “fight” 25 times during his september 4 nomination acceptance  speech.
using an rss reader, you can view data feeds from various news sources, such as power magazine, including headlines, summaries, and links to full stories.
go here for a list of aggregators.
by round eight foreman’s punches had lost much of their  effectiveness, and all his hope rested with a lucky knockout blow that never  found its target.
pages: 1 2 to request permission to reuse, reprint or reproduce a print or online power magazine article, email or call lori husted at 717.505.9701 x104 articles are now available in eprint format for website use and as nxt prints, animated multipage digital reprints.
ali either leaned into his opponent, neutralizing foreman from throwing  a big right hand, or was covered up and resting against the ropes.
most boxing experts consider the rumble in the jungle the best example of  an older fighter using guile and a superior strategy to literally beat a  younger and stronger fighter at his own game.
sensing victory, ali hit foreman with a left hook that teed up his head for a straight right hand that instantly turned out his lights.
while watching mccain’s histrionics, my mind wandered back to another historic fight—the “rumble in the jungle.”
“the greatest” regained the world  championship, and foreman, frustrated, retired from boxing at age 28 to become  a minister, siring five boys all named george, and making millions selling his  lean green grilling machine on tv.
deadly deception ali took control of the pace of the fight from the bell starting the second  round.
most boxing experts consider the rumble in the jungle the best example of an older fighter using guile and a superior strategy to literally beat a younger and stronger fighter at his own game.
“the greatest” regained the world championship, and foreman, frustrated, retired from boxing at age 28 to become a minister, siring five boys all named george, and making millions selling his lean green grilling machine on tv.
for single issues contact theresa nguyen via email or at 832. 242.1969.
a number of free and commercial news aggregators are available for download.
rss/news aggregators: rss/news aggregators (also called readers) will download and display rss feeds for you.
foreman, the  1968 olympic heavyweight gold medal winner, was the world’s top-ranked  boxer after knocking out both joe frazier and ken norton in two rounds in his  two previous bouts.
ali, an inch taller and four pounds lighter, was unorthodox is his footwork but was thought to be a much better technical fighter, with cat-like reflexes and a two-inch-longer reach.
rss (really simple syndication) is an xml-based format for sharing and distributing web content, such as news headlines.
ali, an inch taller and four pounds lighter, was unorthodox  is his footwork but was thought to be a much better technical fighter, with  cat-like reflexes and a two-inch-longer reach.
the consensus among handicappers was that younger and undefeated foreman  packed the harder punch and entered the ring a heavy favorite.
foreman later called the fight  “a sweaty old boxing match which i lost,” but it was the start of  much more than that.
ali took control of the pace of the fight from the bell starting the second round.
foreman, the 1968 olympic heavyweight gold medal winner, was the world’s top-ranked boxer after knocking out both joe frazier and ken norton in two rounds in his two previous bouts.
by round eight foreman’s punches had lost much of their effectiveness, and all his hope rested with a lucky knockout blow that never found its target.
it occurred to me that there are interesting parallels linking that famous brawl and the daily tussles of the presidential contenders.