but that isn’t what he did at all.
much like today, when everyone who is rational and realistic fears the prospect of how the economy may deal them a disabling blow.
every once in a while, take some step to be positioned for when the time comes that victory can be obtained (in the case of the economy, could this be an investment in the nation’s infrastructure, education, etc.?).
it may be the best parable we can turn to right now.
and the thing that i’ve always remembered  was that a beaten fighter, even a man as big and powerful as frazier –  and he was very much favored to win that fight – suddenly becomes about  the size of a pygmy.
he had a plan: he would use the chanting of the crowd on fight  night to cheer him on and, perhaps, to strike a blow to foreman’s  morale.
and it was significant because if you were going to fight the man you didn’t want to see him hitting that heavy bag.”
but his own fear was clearly visible on his face when he stepped into the  ring.
as everyone else, i’ve taken my share of rights to the jaw in one fashion or another in the course of my life.
cant get anything useful of the tv anymore.
get ready for an economic version of rope-a-dope i applaud all the efforts, individually, institutionally and by governments  (even governments acting cooperatively one with another) to mitigate the damage  of the economic crisis.
print this post home > basic theme of death of time > a lesson from muhammad ali for 2009:
he tried to  rally his supporters, using bombast – his unique form of braggadocio; his  equivalent of a lion roaring at prey – to energize them.
and they always responded with a loud chorus of “boomiyay ali” repeated over and over.
he saw the looks on the faces of  these people who were so close to him, and he saw what was obvious:  they  were seriously concerned about what foreman would do to him.
subscribe now!enter your email address: connect with doug!
after some period of time, the opponent will punch itself out.
at the same time, he often threw his own body against  foreman’s, making foreman bear his weight.
he liked to talk the talk but he also walked the walk by being what we thought he was.
he could not fathom how ali would be loved by so many  while he had virtually no fans.
it won the 1996 academy award for best  documentary feature.
every once in a  while, take some step to be positioned for when the time comes that victory can  be obtained (in the case of the economy, could this be an investment in the  nation’s infrastructure, education, etc.?).
nuuko is beginning to get some attention and visibility.
but expect to be hurt nevertheless.
the rumble in the jungle is all about how to overcome fear – legitimate & totally justified fear: not unlike the american public has  today.
but he had another plan too – and it was secret.
you couldn’t be rational and not fear him – and ali, in addition to being bombastic was also very rational and realistic about what he was to face in the ring –
ali stayed against the ropes until the eighth round.
on some occasions,  he’d throw quick shots straight to foreman’s face.
i’ve never seen  destruction like that.
and  turn the volume up – the movie has a great soundtrack.
the philosophy discussed here  has been put into practice at qorvis.
ali told his trainer, the legendary angelo dundee, that he had a secret  plan, as he also told his fans.
whatever we are going through – i think that ultimately it will be  called something other than a “recession” – i think that we  have to look at it realistically.
the build-up before the fight actually took much longer than expected because foreman suffered an injury during training, and the fight had to be postponed.
you couldn’t be rational and  not fear him – and ali, in addition to being bombastic was also very  rational and realistic about what he was to face in the ring –much like  today, when everyone who is rational and realistic fears the prospect of how  the economy may deal them a disabling blow.
he’d taunt foreman with phrases like: “is that the best you can give me george?”
as ali ran on the zaire roads, engaged with the citizens during the day, and whenever he had the opportunity, he would encourage the people to chant “boomiyay ali” over and over again.
a few minutes before the fight actually  began, in his dressing room, among his most intimate supporters, ali reiterated  his intention of using a secret plan.
i’d seen him fight before.
books and bios is the way to go.
if so, go get “when we were kings.”
it is about one of the greatest sport  events – perhaps events of any kind – in contemporary history:
the  fight was over.
he tried to rally his supporters, using bombast – his unique form of braggadocio; his equivalent of a lion roaring at prey – to energize them.
great site, congratulations.
then he destroyed ken norton  in two rounds.
you don’t normally associate fear with muhammad ali, but fear  dominated him as he prepared for the fight with george foreman.
it won the 1996 academy award for best documentary feature.
and he had a trainer, dick sadler, tiny by comparison with foreman; and saddler would hang onto the heavy bag, and when foreman would hit this bag, saddler would literally be picked off his feet.”
it was called “rope-a-dope.”
by that time foreman, younger than ali, had punched himself out.
as ali once said “i hated every minute of training, but i said, ”don’t quit.
and the thing that i’ve always remembered was that a beaten fighter, even a man as big and powerful as frazier – and he was very much favored to win that fight – suddenly becomes about the size of a pygmy.
and they  always responded with a loud chorus of “boomiyay ali” repeated over  and over.
we’re going to be in the ring for a while.
it doesn’t  matter.
i saw him destroy frazier.
at the same time, he often threw his own body against foreman’s, making foreman bear his weight.
with his ego he could keep telling  himself that he would dominate foreman.
the chant meant “kill  him.”
and there  was good reason.
in the first round, ali disoriented foreman by using right hand leads, which is an aberrant tactic.
norman mailer described ali at an early press conference to promote the fight this way: “i think ali was scared.
sometimes your only and best option  is rope-a-dope january 9th, 2009 goto comments leave a comment i rarely see a movie more than once.
there will  be damage.
i think he was scared even then [at the press conference].
that he would beat him; that he would dance; that he would make a fool of him; that he would show him superior boxing; that foreman would never lay a glove on him.
so ali used the delay before the fight to continue his training and to  reach out to the people of zaire, encouraging them whenever they saw him to  yell: “boomiyay ali.”
what i'm doing... the unretiring kind: boomers gear up for second careers http://t.co/fypod8m  via @bndarticles 2011-03-24 more visibility on nuuko as a new way for enterprises to tap world-class  expertise quickly and at very high value ....http://lnkd.in/tmnkue 2011-03-15
to erase  their fears.
death of the internet death of time integrated communications knowledge economy message is the medium new communications new media organic message trends in communications basic theme of death of time (26) business model issues (4) communications & news business (11) doug's thoughts on new media (10) quick takes (1)
and he fell unconscious after ali landed a left hook that had the effect of lifting foreman’s head so that it would be in perfect position to be smashed by ali’s right.
and that wasn’t his “secret plan” anyhow.
he had a plan: he would use the chanting of the crowd on fight night to cheer him on and, perhaps, to strike a blow to foreman’s morale.
but in fact, in his sleep or wherever his private moment came, he had to know that he did not do nearly as well against two boxers, particularly joe frazier and ken norton, whom foreman had demolished.
and even if not as deep and long-lasting as a worse case scenario, it will be serious.
if it lasts only one round, the strategy can make sense.
whenever it  gets to me, i watch this movie.
the fighters had already been in zaire for several weeks, training and promoting the fight, and they decided that rather than cancel the fight, or substitute another boxer for foreman, they would simply push the date out a few weeks.
you don’t normally associate fear with muhammad ali, but fear dominated him as he prepared for the fight with george foreman.
ali is a bigger than life character whose example is every bit as potent today as it was in his fighting prime.
so ali used the delay before the fight to continue his training and to reach out to the people of zaire, encouraging them whenever they saw him to yell: “boomiyay ali.”
in the first round, ali disoriented foreman by using right hand leads,  which is an aberrant tactic.
to erase their fears.
that gave ali more time to endear himself to the  citizens of zaire, who already adored him anyhow.
and his face was  puffed-up by the relatively few, but sharp, shots that were the result of  ali’s singular offensive tactic.
what would be interesting is  that ali, who would train after foreman, would often pass by this large hall  where training took place, and he never looked at foreman hitting the heavy  bag.
maybe the best strategy  is to put up defenses (obama’s economic stimulus plan?) and keep the  opponent – in this case, the economy – from hurting you too hard  and too often.
but it didn’t do much damage to  foreman.
just maybe we ought to see it the same  way ali saw foreman:  a formidable opponent that should be feared.
it is about one of the greatest sport events – perhaps events of any kind – in contemporary history: the muhammad ali vs. george foreman fight that took place in zaire (now democratic republic of the congo) in october 1974, known as “the rumble in the jungle.”
suffer now and live the rest of your life as a champion.”
the word ‘murderous’ does not quite  apply.
the build-up before the fight actually took much longer than expected  because foreman suffered an injury during training, and the fight had to be  postponed.
but he did not describe it, and virtually everyone dismissed the claim.
comments (4) trackbacks (0) leave a comment trackbackcomments (4) trackbacks (0) leave a comment trackback good post poretz.
what would be interesting is that ali, who would train after foreman, would often pass by this large hall where training took place, and he never looked at foreman hitting the heavy bag.
whatever we are going through – i think that ultimately it will be called something other than a “recession” – i think that we have to look at it realistically.
during that period of time, it may be the  most realistic approach to emulate ali’s rope-a-dope strategy.
whenever it gets to me, i watch this movie.
and best option is rope-a-dope a lesson from muhammad ali for 2009:
they just diminish in size.
the truth is, i rarely see a movie once, because a movie doesn’t usually hold my attention and i either fall asleep or move on to something else.
sometimes life is rope-a-dope.
and turn the volume up – the movie has a great soundtrack.
but in fact, in his  sleep or wherever his private moment came, he had to know that he did not do  nearly as well against two boxers, particularly joe frazier and ken norton,  whom foreman had demolished.
by that time  foreman, younger than ali, had punched himself out.
he let foreman hit him.
the fighters had already been in zaire for several weeks,  training and promoting the fight, and they decided that rather than cancel the  fight, or substitute another boxer for foreman, they would simply push the date  out a few weeks.
i rarely see a movie more than once.
good point of view, loved it.
as ali ran on the zaire roads, engaged with the citizens  during the day, and whenever he had the opportunity, he would encourage the  people to chant “boomiyay ali” over and over again.
but the reality is that at least for a while that  is all that is going to be done: mitigate the damage.
as we end one year and begin the next,  especially as we end this particular year and begin 2009 with gut level  instincts of fear and hope, dismay and pride, watching this movie could teach  an important lesson.
plaxo dougporetz@skype qorvis communications   is the company co-founded by doug in august 2000.
it  was called “rope-a-dope.”
he went against the ropes.
“i’m blacker than he  is,” foreman said, referring to his actual skin color.
he would use his incredible legs to avoid foreman’s  ferocious punches.
i think he was scared even then [at  the press conference].
at the end of 15 minutes of pounding the heavy bag, there’d be a hole in the heavy bag – not a hole but a huge dent the size of half a small watermelon in that tremendous heavy bag – and foreman used the biggest heavy bag around.
and foreman  suddenly became this gigantic figure.
it seems to me that of all the people i’ve seen hitting heavy bags, including sonny liston, no one hit it the way foreman did.
it seems to me that of all the people  i’ve seen hitting heavy bags, including sonny liston, no one hit it the  way foreman did.
new opportunities for victory  will arise.
he effectively defended himself from getting hurt by the punches.
and there was good reason.
he would use his incredible legs to avoid foreman’s ferocious punches.
the “heavy bag” is the name for that training device  everyone has seen in boxing movies or at gyms – it is the big leather bag  that hangs from the ceiling, a cylinder that represents a crude and  over-simplified form of a human torso.
as we end one year and begin the next, especially as we end this particular year and begin 2009 with gut level instincts of fear and hope, dismay and pride, watching this movie could teach an important lesson.
but the reality is that at least for a while that is all that is going to be done: mitigate the damage.
he’d  taunt foreman with phrases like: “is that the best you can give me  george?”
here is one  recent example --http://lnkd.in/u9vrwe 2011-03-07
posting tweet... powered by twitter tools.
on some occasions, he’d throw quick shots straight to foreman’s face.
he had an overpowering intensity when he  punched.
in fact, his plan was the exact opposite of what he said he would do.
he said he would dance – he would “dance and dance and dance” he said.
but his own fear was clearly visible on his face when he stepped into the ring.
there are many iconic pictures of ali, but the look on his face, as  seen in the movie, is powerful.
he let  foreman hit him.
ali told his trainer, the legendary angelo dundee, that he had a secret plan, as he also told his fans.
i’d seen him fight  before.
and his face was puffed-up by the relatively few, but sharp, shots that were the result of ali’s singular offensive tactic.
that became obvious in the second round when ali did what nobody,  even his corner, expected.
ali continued to let foreman hit him round after round, staying against the ropes.
all in the massive heat of the open stadium filled with  ali fans who would begin to chant “boomiyay ali” whenever ali gave  them the signal.
then he destroyed ken norton in two rounds.
foreman won his championship by knocking joe frazier out and  knocked him down something like seven times.
and foreman suddenly became this gigantic figure.
“i’m blacker than he is,” foreman said, referring to his actual skin color.
as everyone else, i’ve taken my share of rights to  the jaw in one fashion or another in the course of my life.
all in the massive heat of the open stadium filled with ali fans who would begin to chant “boomiyay ali” whenever ali gave them the signal.
maybe the best strategy is to put up defenses (obama’s economic stimulus plan?) and keep the opponent – in this case, the economy – from hurting you too hard and too often.
i love the older school wisdom lessons.
and even if not as deep and long-lasting as a worse case  scenario, it will be serious.
the  muhammad ali vs. george foreman fight that took place in zaire (now democratic  republic of the congo) in october 1974, known as “the rumble in the  jungle.”
powered by twitter tools.
the positioning built over time can be fully exploited at  that time.
get ready for an economic version of rope-a-dope i applaud all the efforts, individually, institutionally and by governments (even governments acting cooperatively one with another) to mitigate the damage of the economic crisis.
he just walked right by as if foreman did not exist.
foreman never  understood it.
how long will this fight with the economy last?
foreman was awesome.”
and here’s what george plimpton said, describing his visit to the  presidential palace facility where the boxers trained while in africa: “he [foreman] seemed incredible.
and he had a trainer, dick sadler,  tiny by comparison with foreman; and saddler would hang onto the heavy bag, and  when foreman would hit this bag, saddler would literally be picked off his  feet.”
and he fell unconscious after ali  landed a left hook that had the effect of lifting foreman’s head so that  it would be in perfect position to be smashed by ali’s right.
i’ve never seen destruction like that.
it’s worth seeing numerous times because of  the quality of the production and direction; but mostly it is also worth seeing  because of the story.
he effectively defended himself from getting hurt by the  punches.
during that period of time, it may be the most realistic approach to emulate ali’s rope-a-dope strategy.
and it  was significant because if you were going to fight the man you didn’t  want to see him hitting that heavy bag.”
just maybe we ought to see it the same way ali saw foreman: a formidable opponent that should be feared.
sometimes your only and best option is rope-a-dope
print this post home > basic theme  of death of time > a lesson from muhammad ali for 2009:
this is the way mailer described  foreman at the heavy bag – and how ali dealt with it: “foreman hitting the heavy bag is one of the more prodigious sights  i’ve had in my life.
this may, at least in part, be one of  those times.
with his ego he could keep telling himself that he would dominate foreman.
at the end of 15 minutes of pounding the heavy bag,  there’d be a hole in the heavy bag – not a hole but a huge dent the  size of half a small watermelon in that tremendous heavy bag – and  foreman used the biggest heavy bag around.
that became obvious in the second round when ali did what nobody, even his corner, expected.
norman mailer described ali at an early press conference to promote the fight  this way: “i think ali was scared.
the economy, political & cultural environment (35) wp cumulus flash tag cloud by roy tanck requires flash player 9 or better.
he was more than a global figure – he was an absolute hero to many, including those in zaire.
he had an overpowering intensity when he punched.
the “heavy bag” is the name for that training device everyone has seen in boxing movies or at gyms – it is the big leather bag that hangs from the ceiling, a cylinder that represents a crude and over-simplified form of a human torso.
after some period of  time, the opponent will punch itself out.
the rumble in the jungle is all about how to overcome fear – legitimate & totally justified fear: not unlike the american public has today.
it’s worth seeing numerous times because of the quality of the production and direction; but mostly it is also worth seeing because of the story.
he saw the looks on the faces of these people who were so close to him, and he saw what was obvious: they were seriously concerned about what foreman would do to him.
and here’s what george plimpton said, describing his visit to the presidential palace facility where the boxers trained while in africa: “he [foreman] seemed incredible.
new opportunities for victory will arise.
that he would beat him; that he  would dance; that he would make a fool of him; that he would show him superior  boxing; that foreman would never lay a glove on him.
this may, at least in part, be one of those times.
the word ‘murderous’ does not quite apply.
there are many iconic pictures of ali, but the look on his face, as seen in the movie, is powerful.
and he knew he was going to be very scared as  he’d get closer to the fight.
he said he would dance – he would “dance and dance and dance”
but there is one movie i have seen more times than i can count: “when we were kings,” a documentary directed byleon gast, subtitled “the untold story of the rumble in the jungle.”
but it didn’t do much damage to foreman.
and that wasn’t his “secret plan”  anyhow.
this is the way mailer described foreman at the heavy bag – and how ali dealt with it: “foreman hitting the heavy bag is one of the more prodigious sights i’ve had in my life.
the chant meant “kill him.”
the positioning built over time can be fully exploited at that time.
what ali did against foreman  may be a role model for how americans can deal with the economy.
despite his friendly and gentle personality today, george foreman was a ferocious boxer.
foreman won his championship by knocking joe frazier out and knocked him down something like seven times.
if only our leaders today were who we would like them to be.
but there is one movie i  have seen more times than i can count:  “when we were kings,”  a documentary directed byleon gast, subtitled “the untold story of the  rumble in the jungle.”
sometimes your only
and he knew he was going to be very scared as he’d get closer to the fight.
what ali did against foreman may be a role model for how americans can deal with the economy.
the truth is, i rarely see a  movie once, because a movie doesn’t usually hold my attention and i  either fall asleep or move on to something else.
he just did  not understand that ali was a hero because of his personality and his  resistance to being drafted into the us army in 1967, for which he was  suspended from boxing for three-and-a-half years.
ali’s fear was evident far in advance of the fight itself.
it is scary for the viewer to see.
the fear is obvious.
despite his friendly and gentle personality today,  george foreman was a ferocious boxer.
ali continued to let foreman hit him round after round, staying against the  ropes.
there will be damage.
but he did not describe it, and virtually  everyone dismissed the claim.
a few minutes before the fight actually began, in his dressing room, among his most intimate supporters, ali reiterated his intention of using a secret plan.
he could not fathom how ali would be loved by so many while he had virtually no fans.
that gave ali more time to endear himself to the citizens of zaire, who already adored him anyhow.
he was more than a  global figure – he was an absolute hero to many, including those in zaire.
foreman never understood it.
he just did not understand that ali was a hero because of his personality and his resistance to being drafted into the us army in 1967, for which he was suspended from boxing for three-and-a-half years.