but the tragedy was that it stopped at that interest, and their hearts had never been touched.
it is through faith alone that we receive this righteousness of christ so god looks on us as righteous and just.
you must go on to remind yourself of god, who god is, and what god is and what god has done, and what god has pledged himself to do.
it may be less than the true teaching on the person of the lord jesus christ..
some of you will go one way to work, and some  another.
but i am  going a step further.
the essence of the christian salvation is to say that he is good enough and that i am in him!
is god happy, pleased, and delighted with you and me?
at last they hear a message which seems to give them deliverance from that one thing, and they accept it, and all is well.
but they cannot get away from it.
but  now, suppose for a moment that such a thing as this could happen—that  some second party could be introduced, who could take all that man’s  guilt upon himself, who could change places with that man, and by some  mysterious process, which of course is impossible with men, become that man; or  take that man’s character upon himself; he, the righteous man, putting  the rebel in his place, and making the rebel a righteous man.
it’s not because we are young and  naïve.
therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the works of the law.
no one can say that jesus didn’t come for men didn’t die for me.
but this is merely another example of human beings not realizing their limitations, their dependency even for the sake of excellence.
but i know you will go away,
love is born not out of condemnation but out of forgiveness, not out of terror but out of faith, not out of despair but out of hope.
a good man stood by his bed-side, and  said, “how much more are you going to leave?”
divines will puzzle you, if you  ask them.
god brings us and all christians to mount zion only through the gospel.
we were born aagain and now live a new life in him by faith.
it was not as though our lord had said to peter: ‘peter, be careful!
god demanded of christ the payment for the sins of all his people; christ stood forward, and to the utmost farthing paid whate’er
how does god chastise his children?comment chapter 11 looking at the waves matthew 14:22-33 “
it is to be honest and to answer our lord’s question truthfully and honestly.
powered by wordpress.com
we were, indeed, poor as owlets, we had not wherewith to bless ourselves.
his actual phrase is – ‘that the trial of your faith’.
because we are wrong in our doctrine, we differentiate between sin and sin, and think some sins are worse than others.
father, punish me, and consider that man to have been me.
there is nothing so wrong as the spirit which argues that because i do this, or because i do that, i have a right to expect something else in return.
we are sons in the fullest sense and in the possession of all our faculties.
1 timothy 1:12-16 12
the devil’s one object is so depress god’s people that he can go to the man of the world and say: there are god’s people.
if the one who came to save us from death lies still and cold forever in a grave, christianity is a sad joke.
but, in the end, the most important thing that he could do was  to recognize his utter need for help and let them pull him to safety.
“but,” says one, “i think if i were to do a few good works,  it would be a little recommendation when i came.”
we either do or we do not..?
these kept them going, and then when they were taken ill or grew old, and could no longer do what they used to do they became depressed.
we have to do some certain work, we have to do something special before we can get this great experience of salvation.
faith is a desiree to be with god.
at the center of the pastoral  ministry is christ, who brings grace, forgiveness, salvation, and life.
now that’s  the kingdom greatness of god at work in your life, now and forever and go  ahead, strive for that.
with sin, guilt, and shame gone, we now can stand before god, righteous and  pure.
you have got faith, where is it?
the last thing luther had in mind was to start some kind of major controversy, but nevertheless major controversy did begin.
exodus 20:18-19 they said to moses, “you speak to us, and we will  listen; but do not let god speak to us, lest we die.”
i was recently waiting several hours at an airport to catch my final flight home from the east coast.
do you see abraham, isaac, jacob, and all  the saints redeemed, come to behold the saviour and the lord?
in the person of jesus a greater lamb has come, a lamb that had to be  sacrificed so the greatest passover of all could occur.
he loves us; he saves us; he forgives us; he helps us constantly; he  adopts us as his children and bequeaths to us an everlasting kingdom –  all for the sake of jesus.
the next characteristic of faith is that it persists steadily in looking to him and at him.
do not trade on that – but if you are alarmed cry out, and he will hear you and take you up.
everything the  substitute does has the same value as if the original person does.
as the saying goes, “pride, human over-confidence, goeth before the  fall.”
what matters first of all if you are a christian is not what you once were, but what you are.
on that day when christ hung on the cross, he did not leave a single farthing for us to pay as a satisfaction to god; he did not leave, from a thread even to a shoe-latchet, that he had not satisfied.
1 thess 1:6 god does not promise us an end to trouble and suffering until our term on earth has ended.
the rebel shall take my place; i will take his.”
the moment we become christian the devil is particularly concerned to get us down, and he has no more successful way of doing that than to make us miserable, or to make us suffer..
is god angry with you and me?
soren kierkegaard, the great danish theologian of another century, tells the story of true greatness and love.
thus we are  assured that jesus knows our pain.
god does not start a work and then give it up or leave it in an incomplete condition – when god starts his work upon his people he is going to complete that work.
this message of truth with grace, this message of jesus the savior, lies at  the center of scripture, at the very heart of the christian faith.
childlike trust in the one who died on the cross for you and rose from the  grave for you, childlike trust in the one who loves you with an everlasting  love, who is for you and all who believe, he is our righteousness, our  holiness, our wisdom, this is not childishness, this is not child’s play,  this is the beginning of living the powerful life of faith in jesus now and  forever.
it is difficult for preachers and laypeople, parents and children to grasp and live out the fact that only the gospel creates love, not the law.
human beings always seem to worry about who is the greatest for the wrong  reasons.
moses brought the law, and every word of it was true.
we must not be surprised if we begin to endure certain things which are rather painful.
and his greatness is not defined by his personal status, though it could be since there is no one like him.
in 1521, luther was summoned to the imperial diet, an authoritative meeting that involved the princes of the church, called by the emperor of the holy roman empire to be held in the city of worms in germany.
the christian life starts with grace, it must continue with grace, it ends with grace.
by showing sinners the savior who loved the world and gave himself for it, the gospel raises sinners from spiritual death to spiritual life.
it is with  you now as with that boy—your position is one of imminent peril in  itself, and your slighting the father’s counsel is a matter of more  terrible alarm, it makes peril more perilous.
oh! believe on christ, poor sinners; believe on christ.
but our lesson finally clues us in as to who the greatest is of all times.
all of scripture and the entire christian faith are brought into focus only  when it is all about jesus – jesus the incarnate son of god, who came to  bring grace that gives life to all who believe in him.
jesus is the center of all we do and say because he took our sin on himself, suffered for us, died for us, and rose for us.
god does not give us truth so we can know that we are right and those who  disagree with us are wrong.
he has given it to you.
if you understood the teaching you would never draw deductions like that; it would be impossible.
we argue that faith alone counts, and because i am a man of faith it does not matter what i do and my life can be thoroughly lacking of discipline.
when luther’s caravan was sighted, people were throwing their hats in the air, blowing trumpets, and creating all the fanfare of the arrival of the hero.
everything the substitute does has the same value as if the original person does.
the mission of the church is to proclaim this beautiful message throughout  the world.
and now, by the help of god’s spirit, let me address myself to  the effect of the ransom; being justified—”justified freely by his  grace through the redemption.”
son of  my love,” said he, “you must stand in the sinner’s place; you  must suffer what he ought to have suffered; you must be accounted guilty, just  as he was accounted guilty; and then i will look upon the sinner in another  light.
now, for some people, ali was the greatest heavyweight boxer who ever lived.
they talk a great deal about a door, but i cannot see the door; they talk a great deal about the way, but i cannot see the way.
and human history is littered with such self-destructiveness, but  we never seem to learn from it, either for ourselves or for others.
you cannot be chained to your galley- oar—the oar of your sins—yet come to christ, and be a free man.
you cannot live on one climactic experience.
1cor 5:19 when pastors preach the gospel in this way, the people of god rejoice because they see jesus.
it is the righteousness of jesus.
some of these galatian christians had arrived at that particular point.
it was in his power to  do so.
you just begin to say: ‘i rest my faith on him alone who died for my transgressions to atone.’
the first is this – it is a knowledge of the lord jesus christ and his power, with a steady trust and confidence in that.
‘no, we are not going to panic’.
saying, “dear father in heaven, i think we’ll go it alone.”
they know enough to be saved – but they are in a state of depression because they do not realize fully what this means.
do you realize what you are doing?’
the christian is different from other people, the christian has something which the non-christian does not possess, and the ideal for the christian is that which is stated so perfectly by the apostle paul: phil 4:11, 13 11 ..for i have learned in whatever state i am, to be content: 13
that’s one reason that christians joyfully receive the title,  “children of god.”
he should have all the common sense and wisdom of the unbeliever, but he has something more in addition.
if you find that man guilty, you cannot justify  him.
the question was asked, “what is the most profound thought that ever occupied your mind.”
for example, we are free to choose what to have for breakfast, in what profession we wish to serve, whom and when to marry, etc.
however poor and small and however incomplete the faith of these disciples was on this occasion, they at any rate had a sufficient amount of faith to make do the right thing in the end.
you must segregate yourself from the world..
to be the greatest on these terms is to foolishly assert that you can go it alone; to be dependent only on what you can do, what you can say, what you can make happen with the resources under your control.
‘let us not be weary in well doing.’
such people are bound to be unhappy.
let a beggar come to your house in white kid gloves, and say he is very badly off, and wants some charity; would the white kid gloves recommend him to your charity?
it is a perfect washing, it is  perfect pardon, perfect imputation; we are fully, freely, and wholly accepted,  through christ our lord.
according to god’s word, in god’s eyes only believers do a good  work.
there is no justification for the sinner on this mountain.
jesus is the new adam who can touch mount sinai and not burn or die.
and finally, thank god for their boldness and ask him to give us that same spirit of unrest when we see abuse.
but when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, saying, lord, save me.
isaiah 25:8 8 (on this mountain)
that is why our faith ultimately can conquer evil  in this world – not because nothing will ever go wrong for us and we will  never suffer, never sin, and never succumb to temptation, but because the son  of god took on himself our human flesh and his suffering, death, and  resurrection robbed the devil and his evil forces of all hope for a final  victory.
thus faith is created by the spirit through his word.
but truth does not necessarily help us.
the holy spirit is in you and he will empower you and strengthen you.
in the 5th verse, peter says supplement your faith, furnish out your faith with the things which he then proceeds to mention.
if that young man over there has really believed in christ this morning, realizing by a spiritual experience what i have attempted to describe, he is as much justified in god’s sight now as he will be when he stands before the throne.
it is not the works that are wrong, it is the faith in your works, trusting your works.
they’re hoping that jesus will pick out the greatest ones  (of course, hoping that he picks them), so that they can finally get the status  and the influence they deserve.
the  one who is totally dependent on god for his source of life and strength, like a  little child.
not what we have been, not what we have done, but the grace of god in jesus christ our lord.
only the message of christ’s work for us creates love for god in the hearts of christians.
do you believe that the son of god came from heaven and lived and did all he did on earth, that he died on the cross and was buried and rose again, that he ascended into heaven and sent the holy spirit, in order to leave us in a state of confusion?
if the one who came to save us from death  lies still and cold forever in a grave, christianity is a sad joke.
unfortunately, we have got some good works of our own, like that maintruck, and  we cling to them so fondly, that we never will give them up.
you who have come last may find yourselves first one day to your own amazement, and like the people in the parable at the end of matt 25, you will ask: ‘when did i do thiss, when did i do that?’
if we are working to satisfy and please self in any shape or form, the end is always going to be weariness and tiredness.
so, be careful then even how you define greatness and power.
they want to do go in this world, and christianity to them is an ethical, moral program.
if we succumb to these temptations, they would lead us to the foot of mount  sinai where we would stand alone under god’s law.
therefore, aa pastor is primarily a preacher or a proclaimer of  god’s word and specifically of god’s grace.
but by the grace of god i am what i am, and his grace which was toward me has not been without fruit, but i labored more abundantly than all of them; yet not i, but the grace of god with me.
“oops, jesus, what  we meant to ask is, ‘who is the greatest in your kingdom.’
it is no use going on to deal with the superstructure if the foundation is not right.
god gave us rules by which we were supposed to live, but we broke those  rules.
thus when life on this earth is over, the soul of the believer goes immediately to heaven to be with god.
the proper work of a pastor is, in the words of luther, to speak “a word of salvation, a word of grace, a word of comfort, a word of joy, a voice of the bridegroom and the bride, a good word, a word of peace” so the church may rejoice in the knowledge of her salvation.
ultimately, jesus’ love and the beautiful message of the savior go out  into the community, into the world, through our pastor and the family of god.
jesus is the eternal one who always has been and always will be.
and he bowed his head and gave up the spirit.
the first cause seems to be that they have a wrong view of faith.
as news of luther’s “attack” spread, a new era in the church’s history dawned.
he who believes and is baptized will be saved, but he who does not believe will be condemned.
what would the position be if we command these things at will?
as the saying goes, “pride, human over-confidence, goeth before the fall.”
but his love for his people  was so strong, that he took the cup in both his hands, and “at one tremendous draught of love he drank damnation  dry,” for all his people.
consider his words in thesis 27, “there is no divine authority for preaching that the soul flies out of the purgatory immediately the money clinks in the bottom of the chest.”
the benefits of  calvary must continue to be dispensed to zion.
rom 6: 13-14 precisely because we have died to sin, we now worship and love god daily.
the emperor himself later indicated his regret that he even gave luther a safe conduct, and immediately put a new price on his head.
god takes us to mount sinai so we can see our sin.
then a wave threw him over the side of the boat onto the  undulating ice flow.
truth is received through god’s greatest gift to man, the mind, the understanding.
god has washed away all our guilt through christ, his son.
they do this for one purpose: that the flock of christ may know the shepherd, that sinners may know the savior.
he is the one who fulfilled god’s holy law for us.
now that’s the kingdom greatness of god at work in your life, now and forever and go ahead, strive for that.
what are these trials?
he led himself into difficulties which need not have arisen.
he works in us and we work it out, and we realize this, the task is not impossible.
such pride  can even kill.
he can use our temperaments and our physical condition.
____ http://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/martin-luther-posts-95-theses?cmpid=social_twitter_tdih_10312011_1comment happy reformation day?!
there were those questions, “am i the best?
don’t let reformation day go by unnoticed.
as christian people we must learn to appropriate by faith the fact that god is our father.
he comes in and he can give us a crop in one year that will make up for ten.
the presence of the holy spirit within us reminds us of our sonship, yes, our adult sonship.
hab 2:4; rom 1:17; eph 2:8; 1 john 5: 11-12 luther said in the third article: i believe that i cannot by my own reason or strength believe in jesus christ, my lord, or come to him; but the holy spirit has called me by the gospel, enlightened me with his gifts, sanctified and kept me in the true faith..
you realize that you are forgiven, and you can thank god that your sons are blotted out and washed away, but you seem to think that is all and that you are left to live the christian life on your own.
on the other hand, because of the biblical teaching of original sin, we do not believe that human beings have a free will in spiritual matters.
in the sixteenth century, the church had to defend the truth of god’s
it was declared that the ratification was to  be this: the surety was to go his way as soon as ever his suretyship  engagements had been fulfilled.
rather, jesus was stating that the old testament is all about him.
now, the very last person off the boat was the captain.
do i not say more prayers than any one?”
thus jesus announces that from genesis to revelation, from the first letter of the scripture to the last, god’s word witnesses to him.
do you  not think you see the scene on earth?
and on the morrow, luther was called once again back to the court and was told to reply to the question.
certainly you are; but you are not to trust in them.
the writer to the hebrews tells us that whoever comes to this mountain cannot touch it because it is .. heb 12:18-21 the writer to hebrews does not exaggerate about this mountain and the penalties incurred by those who touch it.
things, however, became very solemn in a hurry because the next day he appeared before the diet.
he, therefore, says, “sinner, let go thine own trust, and drop into the sea of my love.”
what paul claims here is that in a sense the lord jesus christ saved him in order to set him up as a model.
it is in the daily life of a baptized that god shows love to the family and  to the world.
these people were servants held by sin: they are no longer that.
jesus paid for every last sin when he hung on the cross.
you cannot live on an initial faith.
with a few friends, luther traveled from wittenberg to worms.
the christian faith begins and ends with a knowledge of the lord.
at the time, a dominican priest named johann tetzel, commissioned by the archbishop of mainz and pope leo x, was in the midst of a major fundraising campaign in germany to finance the renovation of st. peter’s basilica in rome.
in our baptism, we died to sin and were buried with christ.
the pomp of a whole universe, the royalty of entire creation, cherubim and seraphim and all powers create, did swell the show; and god himself, the everlasting one, crowned all, when he pressed his son to his bosom, and said, “well done, well done; thou hast finished the work which i gave thee to do.
he turned to this man and asked: ‘do you see?
he sees what he was, he sees the life he was living, and he hates it..
one day each of us will meet death, but for those who live in zion, death gives way to a new and eternal life.
we look down, and say, “can i be saved by trusting in god?
thus in  showing love to other christians, in helping them bear their crosses, we show  our love for jesus.
jesus is the center of all we do and say because he took our sin on  himself, suffered for us, died for us, and rose for us.
the angel did not say that he shall save from all sins except this one sin that you have committed.
although we may place the body in the ground, the soul of that person is in heaven with jesus and the angels and all the saints.
but after adam and eve  disobeyed god, they were afraid (gen 3:10; 2:17).
god demanded of christ the payment for the sins of all his people;  christ stood forward, and to the utmost farthing paid whate’er his people  owed.
instead, our substitute kept god’s law  for us.
faith is faithful to  the one who has been so kind, good, and gracious to us.
jesus said: “i tell you the truth, unless you change and become like  little children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
when the children of israel had lived in egypt for 430 years, god sent his prophet moses to tell pharaoh to let the israelites go..
before his fight with britain’s henry cooper, he said,  “i’m not only the greatest.
though you have faith, you may still be troubled by doubts.. you may have doubts and still have faith, a weak faith.
therefore, aa pastor is primarily a preacher or a proclaimer of god’s word and specifically of god’s grace.
he is if he sees  just, righteous, innocent, holy people.
ye who know your guilt and misery come, cast yourselves upon him; come, and trust my master, and as he lives, before whom i stand, you shall never trust him in vain; but you shall find yourselves forgiven, and go your way rejoicing in christ jesus.
faith is a vital, deliberate trust in god’s grace, so certain that it would die a thousand times for it.
whatever your circumstances at this moment, bring all you know to be true of your relationship with god to bear upon it.
the word of god gives birth to the church, nourishes the church, strengthens the church, preserves the church, and sustains the church to the end.
god brings us and  all christians to mount zion only through the gospel.
they will go on, but they go on in this hopeless, dragging condition.
the first is conviction of sin.
the whole of the punishment of his people was  distilled into one cup; no mortal lip might give it so much as a solitary sip.
without him we are utterly hopeless.
but say, was it accepted?
he’s trying to show these disciples that their greatness and strength with god comes from “knowing your dependency on him and trusting in him for all things.”
take away the filthy garments; that is pardon.
let us remember how he endured and how patient he was.
he sent his own son to take our place and do what we were unable to do.
jude 24 now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy, 25 to god our savior, who alone is wise, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and forever.
i try to say it from the pulpit every sunday because i think it is the thing that is robbing most people of the joy of the lord.
but this does not mean that we are able to please god with our behavior.
the rebel must die; god says he must.
you must do it, or else you perish!
yes, i do, that is the doctrine of justification by faith.
we must never allow that.
a soul “exceeding sorrowful even unto death;” a body torn with torture; a death of the most inhuman kind; and an agony of such a character, that tongue cannot speak of it, nor can even man’s mind imagine its horror.
it was called;  you guessed it, “the greatest.”
two thieves were with him there; not righteous men, lest any should have said that the death of those two righteous men helped the saviour.
that one sin 1 timothy 1:16 16
jesus was punished in our place, bearing our sin and guilt so we could go free.
do you think you see him, with hell at his chariot- wheels, with death dragged as a captive through the royal streets of heaven?
then the message of jesus’ love and what he has done for us moves into our family life..and whatever other vocation god has given to us.
i will give him the parable we have given to us in the  prophets—the parable of joshua the high-priest.
he is if he sees sinful people, lawbreakers, commandment violaters.
he will even encourage us to be righteous as long as he has us confused at this point.
it was in his power to do so.
when we serve our neighbor, we  serve jesus.
because of this blessed exchange, christ has taken our place and we take our place before god in christ.
1 peter 2:24 24 he himself bore our sins in his own body on the tree, that dying to sins, we might live to righteousness; by whose stripes you were healed.
phil 1:6 being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of jesus christ; the beginning of the work is a miracle, so if he can initiate a miraculous work he can keep it going; what he has already begun he can continue.
but the god of heaven had a right to do as he  pleased.
when we look to jesus, we see temptation in the wilderness and know that he does not come to intimidate us with threats of punishment for sin and failure.
god sometimes prepares a man for a great trial in this way.
without forgiveness, faith expires.
it is difficult for preachers and laypeople, parents and children to grasp  and live out the fact that only the gospel creates love, not the law.
as he was by his fellow countrymen who hated the christian faith, was that the christian faith that the jews – the person who thought he had always lived a righteous and religious life – is as much a sinner as the most flagrant sinner amongst the gentiles.
this lamb of god was  sacrificed for the sins of the whole world, and now god passes over all our  guilt, shame, and every single sin we have ever committed.
that is not  the way to get to the stars.
word against arminius, who taught that human beings cooperate in their  conversion.
on this day just under 500 years ago, one man took a stand against the entire catholic church because he believed the authority and truth of the bible.
with this act, he hoped to provoke a discussion among the scholars about the abuses of the indulgences by the roman catholic church.
he calls a child forth as his example of greatness.
so he clung to the main-truck with all his might, though there was no doubt that he must soon let go and perish.
when we love our neighbor, we love jesus.
nevertheless, unless we believe what the scriptures tell us about jesus,  his life and work will be of no benefit to us.
as our substitute, jesus kept the law perfectly for us, yet he was punished for the sins of the world, taking all our guilt on himself and dying the death we deserved for the wrongs we had done.
the question of age is irrelevant in god’s kingdom and it is unscriptural to emphaasize it as we do.
the christian position is a clear position.
so on the evening before nov. 1 (all saints day), he posted his 95
the more you know him and his glory the more ridiculous they will become.
we may close our eyes, put on a blindfold, or even put out our eyes, but the lightning still flashes.
the famous theologian, karl barth, one of the great minds of the 20th century, was being interviewed by a group of seminary students one day.
if you wish to define greatness, just look at this jesus, who he is and  what he has done for you.
in a few  moments his son would fall down, and be dashed to pieces!
the second thing the true christian realizes is god’s way of salvation in christ.
let me, lest i should have made a mistake, explain myself again.
you will go the ceremony way: you will lay the foundation of the  structure with infant baptism, build confirmation on it, and the lord’s  supper.
to this end he makes a special object of attacking the heirs of salvation, christian people, and there is nothing which so suits his purpose as to depress us and to bring us down, to give the impression that this boasted salvation is but a figment of the imagination..
for ye received not the spirit of bondage again unto fear; but ye received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, abba, father.
i. first, then, we have the redemption that is in or by christ jesus.
in other words, the father looks on his son as if  he were all sinners and the father looks on us sinners as if we were his son.
i am condemned to  die.
i will look at him as if he were christ; i will accept him as if he were  my only- begotten son, full of grace and truth.
no matter what wrongs haunt them and never leave them in peace, jesus, the lamb of god, has taken them all away.
and now i hear one cry, “that is an extraordinary  doctrine.”
it is the training through which a child is put, it is the method of training a child.
he loves us; he saves us; he forgives us; he helps us constantly; he adopts us as his children and bequeaths to us an everlasting kingdom – all for the sake of jesus.
that is the way of salvation, the christian way of salvation, the way of salvation through justification by faith.
your trouble is unbelief.
there were no righteous men to suffer; no disciples shared his death; peter was not dragged there to be beheaded, john was not nailed to a cross side by side with him; he was left there alone.
even then, it is the holy spirit who creates the good works.
can you believe such a doctrine as that?
so, the prince came up with another solution.
a soul “exceeding sorrowful  even unto death;” a body torn with torture; a death of the most inhuman  kind; and an agony of such a character, that tongue cannot speak of it, nor can  even man’s mind imagine its horror.
faith is something that is everlasting and eternal.
what then is the cure?
christians need to  remember that we are all members of one church.
they were laid upon the  shoulders of christ, and they are gone.
god gives away his justification freely; if you bring anything to pay for it, he will throw it in your face, and will not give his justification to you.
human overconfidence, plus human fallibility means that life’s questions need bigger answers than we can provide.
the third negative..we will resort to artificial stimulants.
people need to hear that jesus brings grace it is wonderful that people  believe the pastor when he preaches about trinity, the incarnation..
if god had not accepted his sacrifice, he would have been in his tomb at this moment; he never would have risen from his grave.
traveling at 20 knots, suddenly the uss delphy smashed broadside into the  rocky point arguello shoreline.
then our souls and bodies will be  reunited, and we will live forever in the kingdom jesus has prepared for us  from the foundation of the world.
and listen to him they did.
however, the guilt and the death that result from our sin must be addressed, which our lord provides for too.
there were people in the early church that did argue like that, and there are still many who tend to do the same thing.
“whosoever will, let him come and take of the water of life freely.”
we see the glory of mount calvary as we look to jesus, who alone is holy and just, who alone redeems, saves, and justifies.
when you think you are lost his hand will be there and he will hold you.
we naturally trust him when he is smiling on us, but a day comes when the clouds are blackening the heavens and we begin to wonder whether god loves us any longer..
old rowland hill once went preaching at a fair; he noticed the chapmen selling  their wares by auction; so rowland said, “i am going to hold an auction  too, to sell wine and milk, without money and without price.
i am about  to suppose an impossible case.
when christ declared that he would pay the debt for all his people, god  sent the officer to arrest him for it; he arrested him in the garden of  gethsemane, and seizing upon him, he dragged him to the bar of pilate, to the  bar of herod, and to the judgment seat of caiaphas; the payment was all made,  and christ was put into the grave.
nay, friends, we cannot buy heaven with gold  nor good works, nor prayers, nor anything in the world.
traveling at 20 knots, suddenly the uss delphy smashed broadside into the rocky point arguello shoreline.
for what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, god, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh: he means that the law could not save anybody, the law could not enable anybody to live the christian life, for the reason that the law is weak, because of the weakness of my flesh.
we are light paul, wretched in our inability to do what is right and at the same time rejoicing in the victory we have through jesus christ our savior.
this war is waged under  the cross, but it brings pain, suffering, and hardship to christians just as  life brings the same to everyone who lives on earth.
on christ the solid rock i stand, all other ground is sinking sand.’
one is to give us instruction through the great doctrines and principles that are taught in the bible.
he says, “i have punished christ; you may go free.”
god looks at us and, on the basis of what he sees, declares us to be just or unjust.
but for this cause i obtained mercy, that in me first jesus christ might show forth all long- suffering, as a pattern to those being about to believe on him to life everlasting.
unless his father had accepted the ransom-price, the ransomer had  never been so honoured; but because it was accepted, therefore did he so  triumph.
all other religions  offer salvation onl to those who meet legal demands.
but it has nothing to do with pagan rituals or pumpkins or costumes.
pressure has been put on the will.
they have read the sermon of the mount and realize that it is a portrayal of the christian life, the life they desire to live.
it is as if a storm takes place within the himan soul and we see what we are, what we have done, our failures, our faults, our sins – and we are afraid.
and may i venture through it?
jesus said: “i tell you the truth, unless you change and become like little children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
striving to be the best  that god has created and redeemed you to be, to do your very best in him for  others, such things are very laudable.
you are in the hand of your father.
these are people who seem to be quite clear about the doctrine of salvation, except that they feel that in their case there is something – their sin, this particular sin .. which somehow puts them in a different category.
they had been created in god’s image, holy and pure.
the father sends his son to  earn forgiveness for us.
because we do not wish to be afraid, we have abolished everything that could frighten us.
that’s what jesus’ disciples were looking for from him that day.
that to the cross the mourner’s eye  should turn, sooner than where the stars of bethlehem burn?”
let us now turn to positive.
the man stands a guiltless man in the sight of god, accepted in the beloved.
and i believe and i look to nothing and to no one except to the lord jesus christ.
they say, ‘yes, i know – but …’ they are held down, they are miserable christians, they are suffering from this state of spiritual depression.
an angel comes from heaven with exceeding brightness; he rolls away the stone; and forth comes the captive, with no manacles upon his hands, with the grave clothes left behind him; free, never more to suffer, never more to die.
they see him not as one rising out of the thunder, lightning, and smoke of sinai to condemn, accuse, and threaten, but as the crucified one who forgives, saves, and justifies.
we cannot do that  in our courts.
now, i don’t want to be misunderstood here.
how often does that happen!
christians need to remember that we are all members of one church.
the protestant reformation brought peace and happiness and joy into the life of the church in a way she had not known since early centuries, and it all happened because the central doctrine of justification by faith was rediscovered.
therefore whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the  kingdom of heaven.’”
the way to answer them is to look at him.
it is wrong for a christian ever to be in such a condition.
they said that all one had to do was to keep the law, and that if you kept the law you would justify yourself, and that if you led your life according to the law, god would accept you and you would be well pleasing in his sight.
john 19:30 30 then when jesus had received the sour wine, he said, it is finished!
to be forgiven means the sins that used to accuse us can’t accuse us anymore.
what is his teaching?
any faith without the  resurrection of jesus is nonsense.
for neither did i receive it from man, nor was i taught it, but it came to me through revelation of jesus christ.
but, after thinking about the  question for a moment, barth answered, “jesus loves me this i know for  the bible tells me so.”
the teachings of these two men denied original sin and were condemned by  the church, but now they appear again in the 21st century.
they had desired  to see him, and now their eyes behold him in flesh and blood, the conqueror  over death and hell!
—r.c. sproul http://www.ligonier.org/blog/rc-sproul-luther-reformation-plus-free-audiobook-download/comment
the office of the ministry is not an office about the pastor, it is an  office about jesus.
now, concerning this ransom, we have to observe, that it was all paid, and all paid at once.
—- chapter 3 men as trees, walking mark 8:24 24
he said: ‘where is your faith?’
galatians 5:19-21 19 now the works of the flesh are clearly revealed, which are: adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lustfulness, 20 idolatry, sorcery, hatreds, fightings, jealousies, angers, rivalries, divisions, heresies, 21 envyings, murders, drunkennesses, revelings, and things like these; of which i tell you before, as i also said before, that they who do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of god.
their thinking is in terms of actions, particular actions, and of comparisons with other people and their experiences, and so on.
a rich man once, when he was dying, had a notion that he could buy a place in heaven by building a row of almshouses.
all the sins of those who believe on him, every one, have been dealt with and god has blotted them out as a thick cloud.
here is the test for you and me: are you loving god with all your being?
do they really want to know if jesus is proud of  them?
we have been crucified with christ.
but his resurrection was a pledge of god’s accepting him.
god’s law strips us bare..
therefore, god looks at us as if we already had died on the cross and paid for our sins.
if doubts again control us, it is an indication of a weak faith.
if peter had looked at him he would have gone on walking on the sea, he would never have become distressed.
the holy spirit shows us how trustworthy the savior is, and faith is the  result.
do you want to be like that?
not only that, but in terms of certain particular actions only.
but god loves us, so he shows  us our weaknesses and places crosses on us to return us to calvary, to cause us  to cry out daily to him for mercy.
he loves us as much as his father loved him.
in  such a religious life, obedience is rendered not out of love for their god but  out of fear and the desire to avoid judgment and punishment.
such rejoicing occurs when the pastor preaches about the  forgiveness of sins.
this is the supreme thing – that sinful fallen man can be redeemed and restored, and ultimately the whole of creation also.
this does not mean that pastors should not preach the law, which they must  do if people are to see the futility of living on sinai and embrace the riches  of calvary so they might live on zion.
others think of god only as a stern law-giver far away in a distance.
in the fourth century, the church had to fight against the teachings of  pelagius, who believed that humans entered the world morally indifferent and  could develop a moral germ or spark that led to salvation.
he would be great in and of himself, that’s for sure.
rev 1:17-18 because jesus lives, the final victory over sin, over death, and over hell belongs to every christian.
god gives no one his spirit or grace except through or with the external word.
if i could preach justification to be bought by you at a sovereign a piece, who would go out of the place without being justified?
now, the very last person off the boat was the  captain.
the evidence i will shew you.
to dwell on the past simply causes failure in the present.
now, “if jesus had not paid the debt, he ne’er had been at  freedom set.”
we are family – god’s family.
the greek word we translate as “justify” means “to put into right relationship (with god), to acquit, to declare and treat as righteous, to show or prove to be right.”
john 16:33 33 i have spoken these things to you so that you might have  peace in me.
26 to declare, i say, at this time his righteousness: that he might be just, and the justifier of him which believeth in jesus.
i must ask myself why i have been doing this work and what has really been my motive.
i am reconciled to god by the blood of his son upon the cross.
october 31, 1517, is the date given to officially commemorate the start of the protestant reformation; its the day martin luther nailed his 95 theses to the door of the castle church in wittenburg, germany.
it was, in truth, his only way of escape; he might be picked up out of the sea, but he could not be rescued if he fell on the deck.
if you travel all over germany even today, there are swan statues that symbolize martin luther and his influence.
without the gospel,  the church cannot survive.
thus the major thrust of their preaching is not on the grace and forgiveness found in the savior but on the importance of living a good life.
the office of pastor is not about the one who holds the office but about  the one who instituted the office.
but now, suppose for a moment that such a thing as this could happen—that some second party could be introduced, who could take all that man’s guilt upon himself, who could change places with that man, and by some mysterious process, which of course is impossible with men, become that man; or take that man’s character upon himself; he, the righteous man, putting the rebel in his place, and making the rebel a righteous man.
the office of pastor is an office of the gospel.
it is called a “theology of glory,”  which may also be called the believers’ prosperity.
you cannot be saved so.
the crosses christians bear are sent by god not only for the benefit of the one who bears the cross but also for the benefit of others.
see eph 1:4 the whole of salvation is god’s work from the beginning to end, and that god has his ways of producing it.
nothing but the grace of god can save anybody, and it takes the same grace to save all.
they say that they believe that it is a good life and they solemnly decide to take it up.
when jesus said from the cross that “it is finished,” those  words meant that his victory had been completed.
believe him and his word.
what saved this man was his absolute honesty.
what brought them out of slavery?
must the weapon of destruction be pointed directly at you?
“venture on him, venture wholly; let no other trust  intrude.”
the first sin of humanity in the garden of eden was adam and eve
and when he said yes, they said, “are you ready to recant of them?”
he knew his father would keep his word; the ship lurched on one side, over went  the boy splash into the sea, and out went brawny arms after him; the sailors  rescued him, and brought him on deck.
it may deny at some point the work of christ.
love is born not out of condemnation but out of forgiveness, not out of  terror but out of faith, not out of despair but out of hope.
it all comes back to our relationship to god; it is all a matter oof belief or unbelief.
a  rich man once, when he was dying, had a notion that he could buy a place in  heaven by building a row of almshouses.
therefore, faith is a vibrant, living thing.
1cor 5:19 when pastors preach the gospel in this way, the people of god rejoice  because they see jesus.
christ says,  “i will be substitute for the rebel.
the quaking cannot be felt.
yes, poor soul, if thou desirest it; if god has made thee willing, if thou dost confess thy sins, christ is willing to take thy rags, and give thee his righteousness, to be thine for ever.
there he was on the maintruck; he managed to get up there, somehow or other, but down he never could get.
i remember watching the tv show, “savage seas,” and on this particular show, a large ocean vessel was sailing in the bering sea.
now, today, i’m not  going to talk about his politics, or his religion.
it is possible that a man has been over-working.
paul’s answer is, that you can only say aa thing like that if you do not understand the teaching.
let the dead past bury its dead.
but i am going on, and out of loyalty i will go on, as a sheer duty.
one by one, the  other destroyers followed the delphy’s lead and they smashed into the  rocks as well.
october 31 is indeed a day to celebrate!
now, he’s not saying “be like this child” as if  the child were blameless and holy.
there is no happiness finally, there is no peace, there is no joy except we be right with god.
being a christian, it doesn’t matter what i do, i shall be covered by grace.’
now nothing separates us from the love of god that is in christ jesus our lord – not even death.
do you realize that the son of god came from heaven to earth and went even to the cross of calvary to save you, to deliver you from the world and its lust?
the essential point is, that the way to know yourself a sinner..is to come faace to face with the law of god.
he is as much a real criminal when he is pardoned as  before.
imagine the kind of bravado, then, it takes to ask the very son of god that question, too.
the poor boy looked down on the sea; it was a long way; he could not bear the idea of throwing himself into the roaring current beneath him; he thought it looked angry and dangerous.
he was there, locked up in durance vile, until the acceptance should have been ratified in heaven.
in his theses, luther condemned the excesses and corruption of the roman catholic church, especially the papal practice of asking payment—called “indulgences”—for the forgiveness of sins.
we may close our eyes, put on a  blindfold, or even put out our eyes, but the lightning still flashes.
on that day when christ hung on  the cross, he did not leave a single farthing for us to pay as a satisfaction  to god; he did not leave, from a thread even to a shoe-latchet, that he had not  satisfied.
and may i  venture through it?
why, the rags that joshua had on go to christ, and the garments put on joshua are the garments that christ wore.
through faith in jesus, we have become the temple of the holy spirit (1cor 6:19).
christians bleed and hurt and die just like everybody else, which is one reason christians often are considered foolish and pathetic by non-believers.
i hate to be the one to tell you this even if you are a powerful person  today.
the disciples are literally standing in his presence.
all three mountains help answer the question of what god sees when he looks  at you and me.
the prayer that luther wrote in that ensuing 24-hour period was one of the most moving prayers i have ever read in my life.
but his resurrection was  a pledge of god’s accepting him.
they have been told they must decide, and they do decide: but they do not always know why they do so.
this marvellous doctrine of the changing of places of christ with poor  sinners, is a doctrine of revelation, for it never could have been conceived by  nature.
“but may i not go to christ, lay some claim  to his mercy, and say, lord, justify me because i am not so bad as  others?”
old rowland hill once went preaching at a fair; he noticed the chapmen selling their wares by auction; so rowland said, “i am going to hold an auction too, to sell wine and milk, without money and without price.
christians must endure humiliation, shame, embarrassment, temptations that never seem to end, even persecution.
it was the 16th century answer to a ticker-tape parade.
but, his true greatness is that he set aside that status for you.
faith is love for god.
i will look at him as if he were christ; i will accept him as if he were my only- begotten son, full of grace and truth.
he was very particular about that.
there are not two zions, but one.
we were born  aagain and now live a new life in him by faith.
it is a life in which one has ‘obeyed’ – there is a will – ‘from the heart’ – there is the emotion, the sensibility – ‘the form of doctrine’ which came to the mind and to the understanding.
for he has made him who knew no sin, to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of god in him.
this god is not only the god who judges and punishes sin but also the god who has prepared an eternal kingdom of glory and joy for all those on whom his favor rests.
but his love for his people was so strong, that he took the cup in both his hands, and “at one tremendous draught of love he drank damnation dry,” for all his people.
god does not give us truth so we can know that we are right and those who disagree with us are wrong.
feelings are meant to be engaged, and when the gospel comes to us it does involved the whole man.
we may have been living the christian life, or doing the christian work, by means of carnal energy..instead of working in the power of the spirit.
you can be no more saved  by believing right doctrine than you can by doing right actions.
we have, this morning, then, a subject which i trust may be the means of  comforting god’s saints, seeing it takes its rise at the cross, and  thence runs on in a rich stream of perennial blessing to all believers.
as soon as a  sinner takes christ’s place, and christ takes the sinner’s place,  there is no fear of a second change.
god does not keep us permanently under trial.
then god establishes  the office of the ministry of the word of the prophets and the apostles will  continue to be preached to god’s people until the savior returns.
he is not angry when he looks at us because he sees holy and sinless sons and daughters.
and what better way of doing that than to bring us into a condition that we give the impression of being depressed, burdened and miserable?
they talk about fighting, but i do not see any one to fight, or else i would fight.”
the teachings of these two men denied original sin and were condemned by the church, but now they appear again in the 21st century.
have you almost lost the faith you once had?
i will resign myself to my fate, i won’t be a quitter..
so he clung to the main-truck with all his might,  though there was no doubt that he must soon let go and perish.
do we keep god’s law because he will damn us if we don’t?
it is for  jesus’ sake that the father loves us, and it is because of what jesus has  done that we love the father.
they are so sorry about the past that they do nothing in the present.
he lived among the people, shared their  interests and their concerns, and he talked their language.
that is what the apostles preached, that christ ‘died for’ our sins.
and immediately jesus stretched forth his hand, and caught him..”
he continued to come to the town, day after  day, just to see her and to feel as though he was near her.
because zion understands life as it really is, lutherans do not live in denial.
sinai will only kill us.
it seems to imply that he knows perfectly well that they have faith.
instead, god the father sent his son to do what sinful people could not do.
their wisdom comes as they watch their parents and mimic what they see.
why cannot i be like that?”
no, sir, it is repentance; it is the immediate leaving off the sin.
only the message of forgiveness in jesus creates faith, hope, and true love.
the message begins with the word and sacraments in our congregations.
imagine the kind of bravado, then, it takes to ask the very  son of god that question, too.
christ says, “i will be substitute for the rebel.
only the message about jesus our savior, our substitute through whom we have forgiveness and eternal life, creates and sustains faith.
our greatness will not be up to the task, even for some of the things we can control.
the sins and guilt that used to condemn us  can’t condemn us anymore.
it expresses itself in words and actions.
he was there, locked up in durance vile,  until the acceptance should have been ratified in heaven.
it is that in the christian life all is of grace from the very beginning to the very end.
if god had not accepted his sacrifice, he would have been in his tomb at  this moment; he never would have risen from his grave.
we were, as our hymn hath  worded it, “bankrupt debtors;” an execution was put into our house;  all we had was sold; we were left naked, and poor, and miserable, and we could  by no means find a ransom; it was just then that christ stepped in, stood  sponsor for us, and, in the room and stead of all believers, did pay the ransom  price, that we might in that hour be delivered from the curse of the law and  the vengeance of god, and go our way, clean, free, justified by his blood.
god says, “i will condemn that man; i must, i will—i will punish him.”
the devil tries to seduce us away from mount calvary and send us back to mount sinai.
15 faithful is the word and worthy of all acceptance, that christ jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom i am chief.
ye who know your guilt and misery come, cast  yourselves upon him; come, and trust my master, and as he lives, before whom i  stand, you shall never trust him in vain; but you shall find yourselves  forgiven, and go your way rejoicing in christ jesus.
this truth should always stand at the center of christian preaching: god loves and forgives us for jesus’ sake.
no earthly monarch could have power to consent to such a change.
to believe in such false teaching always leads to denying former christian experience.
i am a most extraordinary man.
the word of god gives birth to the church, nourishes the church,  strengthens the church, preserves the church, and sustains the church to the  end.
you will go the ceremony way: you will lay the foundation of the structure with infant baptism, build confirmation on it, and the lord’s supper.
the gospel is the good news about jesus our savior and all he has done to bring us into a right relationship with god.
everything we do is holy by faith in christ.
there is a far more popular understanding of zion promulgated tooday that  is not found in the scriptures.
in the moment they believe, their sins being imputed to  christ, they cease to be theirs, and christ’s righteousness is imputed to  them and accounted theirs, so that they are accepted.
the law was given, but that man in and of himself is asked to keep it.
they want to know  “who is the greatest among them” so that the others can get in line  behind them.
join 1 other follower get every new post delivered to your inbox.
we would not be bothered to exert ourselves unless he had prompted us to do so.
if you find that man guilty, you cannot justify him.
there is no qualification there, no limit.
in this epistle pater makes it quite clear what he has in mind.
but our lesson finally clues us in as to who the greatest is of all  times.
are we going to play the games i want to play, with my rules or yours?”
because jesus kept every commandment perfectly, our god looks at us as if we had kept every commandment perfectly.
and the man said, absolutely honest: ‘i do see, but i am seeing men as if they were trees, walking.’
the bitter herbs of gethsemane have often taken away the  bitters of your life; the scourge of gabbatha hath often scourged away your  cares, and the groans of calvary have put all other groans to flight.
meanwhile, god prepared the israelites for this plague by  instructing them to kill a lamb, eat it, and spread its blood on the doorposts  and lintels of their homes.
he will let us know that he was disappointed in us and he will rebuke us; but, blessed be his name, he will nevertheless still receive us.
and that perhaps was his most important legacy of that time – that he made the bible available to the common people.
the uss delphy was captained by lieutenant commander donald t. hunter, an experienced navigator and an instructor of the naval academy.
no, their desire for that answer is much like our desire for that answer.
for i have  blotted out like a cloud their transgressions, and like a thick cloud their  sins!”
you  must trust in christ wholly, and then do good works afterwards.
— jesus came to make us right with god, which means he came to justify us before god.
now, what is the meaning of justification?
martin luther states that god has appointed many different stations or offices in life so the love of jesus may be made manifest.
“there,” says another, “i like that; i shall go and believe  in christ, and live as i like.”
it means that we take charge and are going to look after the situation ourselves, feeling either that he does not care, or perhaps that he cannot do anything.
and he has made you alive, who were once dead in trespasses and sins, eph 2:4-6 believers are alive.
they regard god as taskmaster, they regard him as someone who is constantly watching to discover faults and blemishes in them, and to punish them accordingly.
faith certainly includes the understanding of various facts explained in scripture, but faith is more than just understanding.
god has several ways of doing this.
he was our  substitute in every way on every day of his life.
and they are the ones witnessing of me, jesus meant more than that the old testament contains one or two passages that refer to him.
the problem with such bravado is that it asserts our complete independence  even from god.
we must say to ourselves every day of our lives: ‘now i am a christian, and because i am a christian i am in the kingdom of god and all my thinking has got to be different.
all other religions offer salvation onl to those who meet legal demands.
we are now free to serve him out of love.
it is a failure in some shape or form to realize what he is that accounts for all our troubles.
if we succumb to these temptations, they would lead us to the foot of mount sinai where we would stand alone under god’s law.
when he stands before you, offering you his life and  salvation as a gift, serving you with his blessings and peace, don’t be a  stubborn, “i’ll do it my way, self-proclaimed greatest  adult,” be like a child who smiles from ear to ear in the presence of the  one who loves you and makes his eternal life possible for you.
to answer this crucial question, we  can look at three biblical mountains: mount sinai, mount calvary, and mount  zion.
looking through the window of his carriage, he saw a beautiful young peasant girl walking along the street.
he knows, he sees, his grace is sufficient.
in a sense, and in the last analysis, that is the one and only cause of spiritual depression – it is the devil, the adversary of our souls.
“i float like a butterfly and  i sting like a bee?”
“what! am i to have it for nothing at all, without doing  anything?”
before adam and eve sinned, god’s law caused them no fear.
the jews believed that the law was made by god in order that man might save himself by keeping it.
we may stop our ears so we cannot hear it, but the thunder still rumbles.
one day  each of us will meet death, but for those who live in zion, death gives way to  a new and eternal life.
as you may have guessed, he gave up his kingly robe and symbols of power and prestige.
his ultimate greatness is defined by what he brings to you and to all who trust in him.
when we look to jesus, we see him in the garden of gethsemane in such  anguish that he sweats drops of blood.
he said he would punish it, and so he must punish it, and, blessed be his name, he has punished it.
they work up some kind of excitement or they adopt new methods..
contrary to his calculations, the ship was headed right into devil’s jaw, a scant two miles off the california coast.
it was called; you guessed it, “the greatest.”
this jesus was something special and they had an inside track into his new kingdom.
two thieves hung there with him, that men  might see that there was majesty in his misery, and that he could pardon men  and show his sovereignty, even when he was dying.
and now i close up with the third point, upon which i shall be brief, and i hope very earnest: the manner of giving this justification.
(12:7) if ye endure chastening, god dealeth with you as with sons; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not? (12:8)
that is the spirit of resignation, stoicism if you like, putting up with it.
christians live a lifelong struggle with sin.
i find in the bible, “this is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that christ jesus came into the world to save sinners.”
at the center of god’s word is jesus christ.
the first thing is this.
when he put it to his own lips, it was so bitter, he well nigh spurned  it—”let this cup pass from me.”
would a good new hat that he has been  buying this morning recommend him to your charity?
but how is it to be got?
you cannot look back across your past life without seeing things to regret.
the word of god alone causes the church to grow.
all of it comes from a simple trust in god  who provides all things for us.
when the plea is demanded, christ says, “guilty;” takes my  guilt to be his own guilt.
if we look tp our own goodness and works for justification before god, we go to sinai without jesus.
it is about doing it our way, cutting ourselves off from the one in whom we live, and move, and have our being.
1cor 10:13; heb 4:15-16; matt 28:20; ps 50:15; 1peter 2:11; 1peter 1:4; rom  8:18, 28 even as christians, our sinful flesh continues to tempt us to believe that  we can ddo without god’s grace, without his mercy, without christ.
we who died to sin, how shall we any longer live therein?
what are the characteristics of this great faith?
and if christianity is defined as something little different than other world religions, it is not surprising that people forsake it in vast numbers..
‘now,’ they say, ‘if we pray for certain things, we are bound to have them, for instance if we pray all night for revival we must have revival.’
for whom he foreknew, he also foreordained to be conformed to the image of his son god permits these things to happen to us.
for through the word and the  sacraments, as through instruments, the holy spirit is given, and the holy  spirit produces faith, where and when it pleases god, in those who hear the  gospel.
sit down and say to yourself: ‘well, now, why am i weary, what is the cause of my weariness?’
if he gives you faith, he  gives you good works after- wards.
john 1:9 there is no limit to it; there is no differentiation between sin and sin.
and his greatness  is not defined by his personal status, though it could be since there is no one  like him.
(to god be the glory)
through jesus we come to see god as gracious.
let a beggar come to your house in white kid  gloves, and say he is very badly off, and wants some charity; would the white  kid gloves recommend him to your charity?
(12:11) now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous: nevertheless afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby.
he gives it away freely.
here i stand, the sinner.
with these words, jesus proclaims that the entire revelation of god given to us in the holy scriptures was given so we might know him.
there are others in whose case the gospel seems to affect the heart only.
you cannot be chained to your galley- oar—the oar of your  sins—yet come to christ, and be a free man.
finally, on the last day, when our lord returns to judge the living and the dead, he will raise our bodies to life again.
this truth should always stand at the center of christian  preaching: god loves and forgives us for jesus’ sake.
which means, ‘why are you not taking your faith and applying it to this position?’
we are family –  god’s family.
he moved into the  village dressed only as a peasant.
that sacred  circle of calvary was kept for christ alone.
this war is waged under the cross, but it brings pain, suffering, and hardship to christians just as life brings the same to everyone who lives on earth.
there are many possible answers to the question.
we worship and love god daily as we love and serve our neighbors, our family members, even strangers.
but  through faith in jesus, we stand holy, pure, and innocent in god’s eyes.
not only as our savior but do we know him?
it will not do, sir, because it is “by his grace.”
that is what we may call the danger of the middle period.
mount zion heb 12:18; 22-24 when you and i became christians, we came to mount zion, that is, we became  members of the church, which is the family of god.
luther burned the document in a public bonfire and his defiance before the church was now a matter of record.
it involves our relationship to our father through the work  of his son.
is it possible we are going to drown with him in the boat?
and, moreover, god gave a second proof of acceptance; for he took his only begotten son to heaven, and set him at his right hand, far above all principalities and powers; and therein he meant to say to him, “sit upon the throne, for thou hast done the mighty deed; all thy works and all thy miseries are accepted as the ransom of men.”
the accident resulted in the loss of  all seven ships.
you will remember the multitude he has redeemed; not me alone,  nor you alone, but “a multitude that no man can number,” which  shall as far exceed the stars of heaven for number, as they exceed all mortal  reckoning.
psalms 3 every one has  turned away; they have altogether become filthy; not one is doing good, no, not  even one.
why, the rags that joshua  had on go to christ, and the garments put on joshua are the garments that  christ wore.
the moment he believes in christ, his pardon at once he receives, and his sins are no longer his; they are cast into the depths of the sea.
and the grace of our lord was exceedingly abundant, with faith and love in christ jesus.
so, jesus isn’t putting a child on display for that reason.
such rejoicing occurs when the pastor preaches about the forgiveness of sins.
the gospel is not something partial or piecemeal: it takes in the whole life, the whole of history, the whole world.
god’s law he kept fully and absolutely without failure.
when paul spoke to the other apostles at jerusalem he found he was preaching exactly the same gospel as they were preaching.
‘i am what i am’ – whatever the past may have been.
his mission on earth was for us as he died for the sins of the entire world, including your sins and mine.
it doesn’t take long for us, even when we’re young, to start asking those questions, does it?
he did not drivel out a part-payment, and then  declare that he would come again to die, or that he would again suffer, or that  he would again obey; but down upon the nail, to the utmost farthing, the ransom  of all people was paid, and a full receipt given to them, and christ nailed  that receipt to his cross, and said, “it is done, it is done; i have  taken away the handwriting of ordinances, i have nailed it to the cross; who is  he that shall condemn my people, or lay anything to their charge?
—- chapter 8 false teaching (gal 4:15)
“well, but are we not to do good works?”
if we are living the christian life, or trying to live the christian life, at the moment, on the assumption that it means just come to christ and you will never have any more worry in the whole of your life, we are harboring a terrible fallacy.
many people are in a poor state of physical health because they eat and drink too much.
it is the good news about how jesus took care of mount  sinai and mount calvary for us.
through this office, the gospel will be proclaimed and people will be brought to and sustained in the faith.
so, who is the greatest?
would a good new hat that he has been buying this morning recommend him to your charity?
so we, too, will rise  to live with god forever.
but god took this darkest moment and out of it he brought forgiveness,  life, and everlasting glory.
and besides —to use a paradox—if you were to get better, you would be all the worse; for the worse you are, the better to come to christ.
you can be tired in the work and not tired of the work.
but it only showed people their sins,  their weaknesses, their failings, their lack of love for the god who gave that  law.
i’m the boldest, the  prettiest, the most superior, the most scientific, most skillfulest fighter in  the ring today.”
this word (justify) wonderfully describes the reason the son of god became a man.
yes, says the spirit, they shall rest from their labors, and their works follow them.
methinks at last i hear a sinner say, “is that the only door?
the christian is not one who has become immune to what is happening round and about him.
the man stands a guiltless man in the  sight of god, accepted in the beloved.
now, we being, by the fall of adam, prone to  guiltiness, and, indeed, virtually guilty, we were by the irreproachable  judgment of god given up to the vengeance of the law; we were given into the  hands of justice; justice claimed us to be his bond slaves for ever, unless we  could pay a ransom, whereby our souls could be redeemed.
if you are a child of god, you are destined for heaven and for glory, and that all the things you see inside yourself and outside yourself cannot prevent that plan from being carried out.
but if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons.
these are incomplete and partial views over against what paul here refers to as ‘the form of doctrine’, ‘the standard of teaching’, the great truth which he elaborates in this epistle to the romans.
thus we are assured that jesus knows our pain.
people are often unhappy in the christian life because they have thought of christianity, and the whole message of the gospel, in inadequate terms.
“well, but how is it to be obtained?” says one “must i be  a holy man for many years, and then get it?”
this man was healed and restored and ‘saw every man clearly.’
frank sinatra can no longer “do it his way,” and general macarthur “will not be returning,” and even “elvis has learned that graceland is not something he could create, but something that one can only receive as a gift from the hands of a gracious god.”
they help one another.. if one member suffers, all suffer together; if one member is honored, all rejoice together..
they are moving in the right direction but the troble is that they are shuffling along with drooping heads and hands and the whole spectacle and picture they present is the very antithesis of what the christian is meant to be in this life and world.
only the  message of christ’s work for us creates love for god in the hearts of  christians.
our heavenly father knows we can’t meet him on sinai, so he sent jesus, his son, there for us.
god’s word does teach that we can exercise our will freely in earthly  matters.
isaiah 55: 10-11 the holy spirit gives birth to the church and grows the church through the word, through the proclamation of the gospel.
luke 23:43; john 11:25-26 death is not the termination of human existence.
soren  kierkegaard, the great danish theologian of another century, tells the story of  true greatness and love.
it suits him well that such people should be concerned about sanctification and holiness and various other things, but they can never be right until they are right here, and that is why we must start with this.
that kind of person thinks of sin only in terms of action in terms of sins.
it would not, sir; they  would be no recommendation at all.
god says, “i will condemn that man; i must, i will—i will  punish him.”
if christ has once paid the debt, the debt is paid, and it will never be asked for again; if you are pardoned, you are pardoned once for ever.
the spirit himself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are children of god: and if children, then heirs; heirs of god, and joint-heirs with christ; if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified with him.
patience means patient endurance, to keep on though everything discourages you.
it is a sheer absence of discipline and order in their life.
that is absolutely fatal.
put your life in the context of eternity.
now, the wonder of wonders is, that we are proved guilty, and yet we are  justified: the verdict has been brought in against us, guilty; and yet,  notwithstanding, we are justified.
there are certain simple principles about which we must be quite clear before we can hope to enjoy this christian salvation.
for  others, he was a controversial political figure, a lightning rod in the midst  of vietnam politics and the civil rights movement.
head and the heart only without the will, or the head and the will only without the heart..
their chief trouble often is their wrong idea of sin.
we have, this morning, then, a subject which i trust may be the means of comforting god’s saints, seeing it takes its rise at the cross, and thence runs on in a rich stream of perennial blessing to all believers.
this message of truth with grace, this message of jesus the savior, lies at the center of scripture, at the very heart of the christian faith.
shall we continue in sin so that grace may abound?
we look down, and say,  “can i be saved by trusting in god?
i must try the best i can to make justification plain and simple, even to the comprehension of a child.
for from the moment we become christians we become the special objects of the attention of the devil.
the great antidote to spiritual depression is the knowledge of biblical doctrine, christian doctrine.
they were not simply moved emotionally in the realm of the heart; it was not merely an appeal to the will.
do not go up into the mountain, or touch the  border of it.
not only is he at the center of god’s plan of salvation – jesus is the plan.
amen. —— copyright 2011, lutheran hour ministries lutheran hour ministries is an auxiliary of the lutheran church—missouri synod | lutheran church—canada http://www.lutheranhour.org/sermon.asp?articleid=0018186a&mode=printcomment justification by grace a sermon delivered on sabbath morning, april 5, 1857, by the rev. c. h. spurgeon at the music hall, royal surrey gardens.
there is a story told of a captain of a man-of-war, whose son—a young lad—was very fond of running up the rigging of the ship; and one time, running after a monkey, he ran up the mast, till at last he got on to the maintruck.
but how is it to be  got?
it still stands as one of the worst peacetime naval disasters  in history.
he did not say: ‘peter, because you have doubts you have no faith at all’.
do we know jesus christ?
the father sends his son to earn forgiveness for us.
this is more of a “who has the ultimate power; who is in  complete control;” or maybe say it this way, “who gets to tell  everyone else what to do no matter what?”
we worship and love god daily as we love and serve our neighbors, our family  members, even strangers.
in time, the young  peasant girl grew to know him, and then to love him, and with that all that he  had became hers as well.
(if you did rejoice there was something wrong with you).
“but, o sir, i have been praying, and i do not think god will forgive me, unless i do something to deserve it.”
this is what happenss when sinful people are confronted by god’s holy  law.
(2 cor 4:8-10) we are pressed on every side, yet not straitened; perplexed, yet not unto despair; pursued, yet not forsaken; smitten down, yet not destroyed; always bearing about in the body the dying of jesus..
history has known many hours but none as black as those hours when the son  of god was on the cross.
i am a most  extraordinary man.
you see this is high doctrine.
at the center of this relationship of love between god and his people is jesus.
but the office of pastor is not centered on sinai – it is centered on christ christ is the center of the gospel, which brings the message of forgiveness through his suffering and death.
he is a guilty man; he cannot be justified, because he is guilty.
that is the meaning of his whole argument about abraham.
peter, in front  of all the others, had even for a moment walked on water with him.
romans 3:22 22 even the righteousness of god through the faith of jesus christ, toward all and upon all those who believe.
for i have blotted out like a cloud their transgressions, and like a thick cloud their sins!”
god has created love for him and for his family, the church, in our  hearts.
we were, as our hymn hath worded it, “bankrupt debtors;” an execution was put into our house; all we had was sold; we were left naked, and poor, and miserable, and we could by no means find a ransom; it was just then that christ stepped in, stood sponsor for us, and, in the room and stead of all believers, did pay the ransom price, that we might in that hour be delivered from the curse of the law and the vengeance of god, and go our way, clean, free, justified by his blood.
i am condemned to die.
but how can we be justified and declared innocent because of what jessus  has done?
and they will find that they do not have an answer.
what you need is not to make resolutions to live a better life, to start faa sting and sweating and praying.
but i obtained mercy, because being ignorant, i did it in unbelief.
he who believes and is baptized will be saved, but he  who does not believe will be condemned.
now, the wonder of wonders is, that we are proved guilty, and yet we are justified: the verdict has been brought in against us, guilty; and yet, notwithstanding, we are justified.
he is able and ready ‘to give a reason for the hope that is in him’.
god at times orders these things to happen to us for our good.
the gospel declares us holy, so now we see god’s law eye-to-eye and it does not kill us.
”this is the first commandment.
we live in an age in which people no longer wish to believe in laws that bind them because if they did, they would be guilty and afraid when they broke those laws.
the holy spirit uses the message of the gospel to bring us to faith, and  this is the only way people are brought to faith, the only way the church is  created.
said he “that would not buy enough for your foot  to stand on in heaven; for the streets are made of gold there, and therefore of  what value can your gold be, it would be accounted nothing of, when the very  streets are paved with it?”
you do not believe the word of god.
we must never for a second worry about anything that cannot be affected or changed by us.
it is the good news about how jesus took care of mount sinai and mount calvary for us.
jesus is very clear who is the greatest.
( for it is written,”cursed is everyone having been hanged on a tree”); not only has christ taken on himself all our sins and made them his own, but he has given to us his righteousness and made then ours.
he himself has said it—”as the  father loved me, so have i loved you.”
you must trust in christ wholly, and then do good works afterwards.
it includes correction, instruction, rebuke, indeed it may include a good deal of punishment.
the antidote to depression is to have a knowledge of him, and you get that in his word.
mohammed ali can no  longer “float like a butterfly or sting like a bee.”
it is his grace that matters – ‘by grace i am what i am’.
the tragedy of the hour ..is that people are far too dependent for their happiness upon meetings.
these epistles which we have in the nt are full of doctrine and of theology and yet it would be very wrong to say that the collection of nt epistles is a text book of theology.
we do not stop being sinful when we become christians.
there is another calling given to each person – that of christian vocation, which is a holy calling.
“freely by his  grace;” “freely,” because there is no price to be paid for  it; “by his grace,” because it is not of our deservings.
the christian never less than the unbeliever, he is always more.
that is new testament.
do you know that you want christ?
and, finally, a helicopter arrived, pulling the crew to safety, one by one.
no roman warrior ever had such a  triumph; none ever saw such a majestic sight.
and you shall set bounds to the people round about,  saying, take heed to yourselves.
through this office,  the gospel will be proclaimed and people will be brought to and sustained in  the faith.
rom 8:38,39 (nothing) shall separate us from the love of god
that was the trouble with the jews also.
the whole of the demands of the law were paid down there and then by  jehovah jesus, the great high priest of all his people.
that is the beginning that is an illustration of an element of order coming back into life.
well, so some may think; but let me say to you, it is a doctrine professed by all protestant churches, though they may not preach it.
how then can such people be convicted of sin?
this is what happenss when sinful people are confronted by god’s holy law.
the importance of jesus’ resurrection cannot be overestimated.
“the moment a sinner believes, and trusts in his crucified god, his pardon at once he receives; salvation in full, through his blood.”
isaiah 62:1 1 for zion’s sake i will not be silent, and for jerusalem’s sake i will not rest, until its righteousness goes out as brightness, and her salvation as a burning lamp.
‘i am crucified with christ’, paul says.
isaiah 55: 10-11 the holy spirit gives birth to the church and grows the church through the  word, through the proclamation of the gospel.
but the office of pastor is not centered on sinai – it is centered on  christ christ is the center of the gospel, which brings the message of  forgiveness through his suffering and death.
as many of us as know ourselves to be  sinners may have christ for asking for him.
for him to appear at the diet was to risk his very life; therefore, he was given safe conduct by the emperor to attend.
the one thing paul was anxious to make clear was this message about the righteousness of god which is by faith in jesus christ.
and they are cast down, their souls are cast down and disquieted within them.
we see the glory of mount calvary as we look to jesus, who alone is holy  and just, who alone redeems, saves, and justifies.
there is that teaching concerning the christian life which gives the impression that once one has arrived at a decision, or once one has been converted, there are no more troubles, no ripples on the sea of life.
he looks as if he were angry with me,
he loves us as much as his father  loved him.
our christian living is not a matter of rules and regulations any longer, but rather our desire to show him our gratitude for all he has ever done for us.
other religions present a  god who punishes all those who break his rules and promises salvation only to  those who keep all the rules.
the spirit of bondage (romans 8:15-17)
god does not give us truth so we can “win the argument.”
christians do not serve god because they are afraid of his anger.
john  1:29 c.f.w. walther: “it is a great and awful sin not to draw any soul  that has been entrusted to us for instruction to jesus and not tell that soul  again and again what a treasure it has in the lord jesus, its savior.”
so the heart is engaged.
if we  look tp our own goodness and works for justification before god, we go to sinai  without jesus.
oh, what a spectacle was there that day!
not only is it a matter of unbelief, it is a question of conduct and behaviour.
one of the greatest dangers i the spiritual life is to live on your own activities.
the christian life is not a task.
so we, too, will rise to live with god forever.
there is nothing left undone, there is no qualification concerning particular sins.
we are not infants, the very term means that we are grown sons and have reached full age.
he has done everything  necessary for our salvation.
this is what happens when god’s commandments peel away the thin,  flase veneer of human righteousness to reveal the guilt and shame that lie  beneath.
hope in god; for i shall again praise him, my salvation psalms 42:11 11 why are you cast down, o my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me?
and ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children, my son, despise not thou the chastening of the lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him: (12:6) for whom the lord loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.
the next principle is that this life of ours on earth is but a preparatory one.
it is essential that we know jesus rose from the dead, but  it is more important that we know he rose from the dead for us so we, too, will  rise one day to inherit an eternal kingdom.
it was a goodly price.
the whole of the tremendous debt was put upon his shoulders; the whole weight of the sins of all his people was placed upon him.
he has kept it and given obedience to it, he has borne its penalty.
in his infinite mercy he consented to the arrangement. ”
faith is not a mere matter of feeling.
i have lost the enjoyment i once had, that is gone..
here we have the case of those who are on the right road and facing the right way.
therefore whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.”
romans 3:10 10 as it is written:”there is none righteous, no not one; romans 3:23 23 for all have sinned and come short of the glory of god, the reason why the jews hated christ and crucified him, the whole explanation of ‘the offense of the cross’, the reason why paul was treated.
and the result is that they are unhappy.
“i float like a butterfly and i sting like a bee?”
he looks as if he were angry with me, and i could not trust him.”
he has given us his word.
christians become sick.
‘where is your faith?’
how can a just god justify  guilty people?
when jesus said from the cross that “it is finished,” those words meant that his victory had been completed.
so, what is it about such bravado that seems to attract us to our heroes?
it is not a losing cause to be a christian.
his books were stacked on a table in the room, and he was asked and ordered to recant of his writings.
he was clinging to the main-truck with all his might, but in a little time he would fall down on the deck, and there he would be a mangled corpse.
—– jesus is the lamb, the great passover lamb.
while waiting, i got a chance to see several kids playing together at the airport gate.
lutherans frequently use the word trust to describe the nature of faith or  as a synonym for the word faith.
“and he said: ‘i tell you the truth, unless you change and  become like little children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
hold on to everything you believe but if you want to be a true christian you must in addition be circumcised’.
and last of all he was seen by me also, as one born out of time.
christ hath bought for himself, some out of every kingdom, and nation, and tongue, under heaven; he hath redeemed from among men some of every rank, from the highest to the lowest; some of every colour—black and white; some of every standing in society, the best and the worst.
jonathan put his robes on david, david gave jonathan his garments; so christ takes our sins, we take christ’s righteousness; and it is by a glorious substitution and interchange of places that sinners go free and are justified by his grace.
what, then, is the authority?
and now, let me further go on to explain some of the characteristics of this justification.
that is why they think it can only be lived if one segregates oneself from the world, and that a man cannot possibly be in business, or engaged in any profession and live the christian life.
for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the world’s rulers, of the darkness of this age, against spiritual wickedness in high places.
many of these christians were being persecuted.
god’s law, when it’s taken  seriously, shames and embarrasses us; it makes us turn away in fear.
they want to know “who is the greatest among them” so that the others can get in line behind them.
we should keep our eyes on jesus, hebrews 12:2 2 looking to jesus the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and sat down at the right of the throne of god.
in addition, christians  are troubled by sin, they struggle with sin.
the  question was asked, “what is the most profound thought that ever occupied  your mind.”
centuries ago, johann gerhard, a lutheran pastor and theologian, wrote that every word of the bible is to be read as if it were printed with ink that is the very blood of jesus.
we can easily impose upon ourselves a new law.
the captain tried in vain to steer the vessel to safety, but to no avail.
for if poor tiff could see the way, he  would take these children away by it.
that is the way to apply faith.
it seems to me that to talk about deciding for christ is a denial of the text that we are considering.
but this is merely another example of human beings not realizing their  limitations, their dependency even for the sake of excellence.
he, therefore, says, “sinner, let go thine own  trust, and drop into the sea of my love.”
it was declared that the ratification was to be this: the surety was to go his way as soon as ever his suretyship engagements had been fulfilled.
it means that you just have a new law which is infinitely more difficult than the old law.
simon, the cyrenian, might bear the cross; but simon, the cyrenian, might not be nailed to it.
we are tempted by any number of media preachers to view the christian faith as a set of rules to shape good behavior that pleases god.
unless the holy spirit working through the gospel raises us to spiritual life, we will remain in spiritual bondage.
one says, “i will go and study the bible,  and believe right doctrine; and i have no doubt that by believing right  doctrine i shall be saved.”
this word (justify) wonderfully describes the reason the son of god became  a man.
because of jesus, we  love god.
now, concerning this ransom, we have to observe, that it was all paid, and  all paid at once.
the moment he  believes in christ, his pardon at once he receives, and his sins are no longer  his; they are cast into the depths of the sea.
they have the same bravado issues as we.
but how do  we get this faith in jesus?
the christian position is three-fold; it is the three together, and the three at the same time, and the three always.
thus jesus is at the  center of all christian worship.
“but may i not indulge a hope, because i go to church twice a day?”
and if  christianity is defined as something little different than other world  religions, it is not surprising that people forsake it in vast numbers..
jesus, the son of god, did not take on human flesh, did not become one of us, simply so we can know what is true.
they hid him for a year in wartburg at the castle disguised as a knight.
my friends over  there,” said he “find a great difficulty to get you up to their  price; my difficulty is to bring you down to mine.”
whenever we are found in this position of weariness..there are certain negatives that are absolutely all-important.
it is essential that we know and believe that jesus died on the cross, but his death will not help us one whit unless we know that jesus died on a cross for our sins, that his death earned our forgiveness so we can live forever with him and all who are his.
then pharaoh let the  people go, and the israelites began their exodus from egypt.
as we were one with adam we are now one with christ.
i, jehovah, am the first and the last; i am he.
but this does not mean that we are able to please god with our  behavior.
fastened in with a seal upon  a giant stone, he sleeps still in his grave; not yet has the acceptance been  given from god; the angels have not yet come from heaven to say, “the  deed is done, god has accepted thy sacrifice.”
now the simple answer to that view is that it is not new testament christianity.
it tells us about creation and the final judgment and everything in between.
a few disciples are standing upon a hill, and christ mounts into the air in slow and solemn movement, as if an angel sped his way by gentle degrees, like mist or exhalation from the lake into the skies.
the best livery for a beggar is rags, and the best livery for a sinner to go to christ in, is for him to go just as he is, with nothing but sin about him.
there have been prices paid sometimes, or rather offered, which  never were accepted by the party to whom they were offered, and therefore the  slave did not go free.
jesus uses the first and last letters of the greek alphabet (alpha and  omega) to describe himself.
a prisoner has been tried, and condemned to  death.
“what! am i to have it for nothing at all, without doing anything?”
for if you believe in christ he will not let you live  as your flesh liketh; by his spirit he will constrain you to mortify its  affections and lusts.
no, sir, it is repentance; it  is the immediate leaving off the sin.
they have tried to forget it
ah, will not mercy’s tender cry persuade you?—”he that believeth shall be saved.”
that to the cross the mourner’s eye should turn, sooner than where the stars of bethlehem burn?”
god the son became a human being, was born of the virgin mary, and lived his  entire life on earth so he could save sinful people and restore them to their  heavenly father.
indeed the real trouble with the miserable christian is that he has never been truly made miserable because of conviction of sin.
an  ice-pack trapped a fishing vessel and literally began to crush it among its  powerful waves.
their way of describing the gospel and the entire message is..which makes them feel better when they hear it.
instead, our comfort, assurance, and hope come from jesus, who alone atones for sin and whose righteousness has merit before god.
the more we understand the law, the  more we realize we cannot live up to its demands for perfection.
as soon as a repenting sinner is justified, remember, he is justified for all his sins.
you may have christ!
paul is concerned to emphasize the wholeness of the christian life, the balance of the christian life.
let me just endeavour to show you some qualities of the redemption that is in christ jesus.
rom 3:21-24 as sinful, human beings, we don’t want to be sent to sinai to touch  it on our own.
he could put on his royal garments and impress her with his regal entourage, and drive up to her front door with soldiers and a carriage drawn by six horses.
the whole of the punishment of his people was distilled into one cup; no mortal lip might give it so much as a solitary sip.
here, then, is the principle on which we much concentrate.
if  i could preach justification to be bought by you at a sovereign a piece, who  would go out of the place without being justified?
in a few moments his son would fall down, and be dashed to pieces!
i do not think that they were referring only to themselves or to their own safety.
these are the people who decide to take up christianity instead of being taken up by christianity.
now, what flesh and  blood cannot do, that jesus christ by his redemption did.
c. h. spurgeon at the music hall, royal surrey gardens.
we should have kept the law, but we didn’t.
that is his argument.
he was rebuking them for being in such a state at all.
there is a far more popular understanding of zion promulgated tooday that is not found in the scriptures.
(col 2:18-22) let no man rob you of your prize by a voluntary humility and worshipping of the angels, dwelling in the things which he hath seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind, and not holding fast the head, from whom all the body, being supplied and knit together through the joints and bands, increasing with the increase of god.
they are never sure their deeds have been done well enough.
our heavenly  father knows we can’t meet him on sinai, so he sent jesus, his son, there  for us.
we do not stand by faith, and justification is not by faith only.
but, his  true greatness is that he set aside that status for you.
they read books which are meant to give instructions about the christian way of life, they attend meetings and conferences, always seeking this something which they do not find.
that is what makes this so terrible, but i wonder whether we always realize it.
from the time of adam and eve, all people have been born sinful and are in rebellion against god unless brought to faith by the power of the holy spirit through the gospel.
ah, but he never would have had that triumph, if he had not paid all the debt.
(phil 2:13) for it is god who worketh in you both to will and to work, for his good pleasure.
doubts will attack us, but that does not mean that we are to allow them to master us.
god caused every single word of the scriptures to be  written with this objective in mind: to show us his son, our savior.
peter brings out his comparison with gold.
that is true faith, that is real trust.
in the fourth century, the church had to fight against the teachings of pelagius, who believed that humans entered the world morally indifferent and could develop a moral germ or spark that led to salvation.
doubt mastered him and overwhelmed him and he was shaken.
it assumes the form of procrastination.
adherents of these works-based religions live in constant spiritual anguish, never confident that their god loves them or accepts them.
but when it is freely, freely, freely,  men turn away.
only the message about jesus our savior, our substitute through whom we  have forgiveness and eternal life, creates and sustains faith.
what does he mean by this ‘spirit of bondage’?
there is not such a thing as  justification to be had on earth for mortal men, except in one way.
they thought that they would hear him speak about the power of faith  to face down the evils of nazism and secularism.
people are depressed because they do not know about these things as they should.
so far, then, concerning the ransom.
faithful pastors want people to live, not perish, so they preach the gospel.
i have been a drunkard,  i have been a swearer, i have been everything that is vile.
many of you, and try to build up your own babel-tower, to get to heaven.
in addition, christians are troubled by sin, they struggle with sin.
do you remember who said this….
childlike trust in the one who died on the cross for you and rose from the grave for you, childlike trust in the one who loves you with an everlasting love, who is for you and all who believe, he is our righteousness, our holiness, our wisdom, this is not childishness, this is not child’s play, this is the beginning of living the powerful life of faith in jesus now and forever.
there are particular problems..if you do nothing but pray about them you will never solve them.
matt 25:34 —– without the treasures of god’s grace, zion dies.
it means the providing of a kind of orchestra or chorus, so that it may be complete.
and i heard a voice from heaven saying to me,  write, blessed are the dead who die in the lord from now on.
romans 3:27 where is boasting then?
all of scripture and the entire christian faith are brought into focus only when it is all about jesus – jesus the incarnate son of god, who came to bring grace that gives life to all who believe in him.
the next day john sees jesus coming to him and says, behold the lamb of god who takes away the sin of the world!
it is as if a storm takes place within the himan soul and we see what we  are, what we have done, our failures, our faults, our sins – and we are  afraid.
clearly the righteousness of the christian, the righteousness by which we stand justified before god, is not our own righteousness – it’s an alien righteousness, a righteousness that comes not from within us but from outside of us.
lutherans frequently use the word trust to describe the nature of faith or as a synonym for the word faith.
not the glorified spirits above are more acceptable to god than the  poor man below, who is once justified by grace.
the theology of glory posits that if we are good to god, god will be good to us; if we are faithful to god, god will be faithful to us; if we follow god, worship god, and obey god, god will pay us our due.
but christianity teaches that god loved the people of this world so much that he did not wish to punish us for our sinful thoughts, words, and acts.
i have been a drunkard, i have been a swearer, i have been everything that is vile.
now is the crisis of this  world; it hangs trembling in the balance.
he tempts us to trust our own abilities.
there is an apostolic message, a positive truth agreed upon by all the apostles and preached by them – there is that definite message.
“twenty  thousand pounds.”
well, jesus is clear, a child who trusts dependently  on him has more going for them than an adult who trusts in themselves because  they are dependent on the one who eternally loves them and completely provides  for them.
unless his father had accepted the ransom-price, the ransomer had never been so honoured; but because it was accepted, therefore did he so triumph.
as paul writes: “if god is for us, who can be against us?”
paul says, ‘how can you say, shall we continue to sin that grace may abound?
not only is he at the center of god’s plan of salvation  – jesus is the plan.
they have seen clearly that christ has delivered them from that, and that he alone could do so; they know that their own efforts will never enable them to fulfill the law.
do we keep god’s law because we are afraid of what he will do to us if we don’t?
i’m sure that he was trying as hard as he could to take full control of the situation.
rest here for ever, mine accepted  one.”
if you are not, you are a sinner.
what is the consolation?
the antidote is – great faith.
that he is doing so in this present time is clear from the fact that the average person in the church seems to regard men as christian simply because they do good works, even though they may be entirely wrong about this preliminary truth.
the christian life is a life of well doing.
their confidence grows as they take up the challenges of life under a parent’s encouraging and resourcing eye.
it’s the concept of substitution.
thus the crosses god sends us, as well as the  joys, are meant to bless the entire family of god.
our soul will be with our lord in paradise while our body lies in the  grave, awaiting the day in resurrection and the return of our lord.
you cannot do that and continue in business or in some profession or indeed in the world at all.
god takes us to mount  calvary to witness the consequence of sin, the wrath of god, which brings  death.
the danger of the majority at this point is just to resign themselves to it and to lose heart and to lose hope.
for i am not ashamed of the gospel of christ, for it is the power of god unto salvation to everyone who believes, to the jew first and also to the greek.
to say that circumcision is essential is therefore to deny this experience.
if you do not believe in the unique deity of the lord jesus christ, you are not a christian, whatever else you may be.
we are holy by faith, but our thoughts, words, and deeds are immersed in sin.
he calls a child forth as his example  of greatness.
it does not matter if you have almost entered into the depths of hell, if you are guilty of murder as well as every other vile sin, it does not matter from the standpoint of being justified with god.
must the  weapon of destruction be pointed directly at you?
let me endure his curse, and let him receive my blessing.”
jesus was  punished in our place, bearing our sin and guilt so we could go free.
(consider  the basketball game).
the sinner and christ do just what jonathan and david did.
when worship does not focus on jesus, it is impossible for the holy spirit  to create and sustain true faith in the hearts of the people because the holy  spirit creates faith only by showing people the savior, jesus.
he is as much a real criminal when he is pardoned as before.
it is the doctrine of the church of england, it is the doctrine of luther, it  is the doctrine of the presbyterian church; it is professedly the doctrine of  all christian churches; and if it seems strange in your ears, it is because  your ears are estranged, and not because the doctrine is a strange one.
so god decided to send his angel to strike dead all the firstborn of the  people of egypt.
you are no more hopeless than the most respectable self-righteous person in the world.
can you conceive how they pressed on one another, to behold how he came conquering and red from the fight?
in order that he may bring me to perfection.
he will swallow up death in victory; and the lord jehovah will wipe away tears from all faces.
free from doubts or fears, free from depression, free from things that get you down.
i was recently waiting several  hours at an airport to catch my final flight home from the east coast.
the lightning cannot be seen.
the world in its heart of hearts hates christ and it hates the christian, because such holy living condemns us.
because all of us are sinful and break god’s commands each day, we deserve nothing but god’s punishment for what we think, say, and do.
finally, on the last day, when our lord returns to judge the living and the  dead, he will raise our bodies to life again.
faith is a vital,  deliberate trust in god’s grace, so certain that it would die a thousand  times for it.
we are never told anywhere in scripture that we are saved by our feelings; we are told we are saved by believing.
we know that god has called us by name in baptism and washed away our sins.
our lord understands  real humaan beings: we are sinners and saints at the same time (rom 7:19ff).
sometimes it takes the form of a blatant denial of the truth and of the cardinal principles and tenets of the christian faith.
christians do not obey god because he demands love.
in other cases it may be the bondage of some promise or pledge, made but never kept, which causes the trouble.
they are to preach not only that he died on the cross but also that he died on a cross for our sins, to forgive us so we could live forever..
‘..for in due season we shall reap if we faint not.’
are there not some here who are saying, “oh!
my prayer time must be insisted upon, i must have my time for meditation.
god caused every single word of the scriptures to be written with this objective in mind: to show us his son, our savior.
his father saw that, and he looked up in horror; what was he to do?
as far as luther is concerned, the feeding of the flock and the growth of the church occurs only when the word is preached.
can you conceive how they pressed on one another, to behold how he came  conquering and red from the fight?
from the time of adam and eve, all people have been born sinful and are in  rebellion against god unless brought to faith by the power of the holy spirit  through the gospel.
he said, “i have had a claim upon  thee to this hour; that claim is paid now; go thy way.”
the moment we become christian we become the special object of satan’s special attention.
you insult god by bringing your counterfeit coin to pay for his treasures.
there are some people in whose case the head only seems to be in use – the intellect, the understanding.
whatever your sin – it is as wide as that – it does not matter what it is, it does not matter what it was.
he said to the diet, “unless i am convinced by sacred scripture or by evident reason, i cannot recant, for my conscience is held captive by the word of god, and to act against conscience is neither right nor safe.
it takes the same grace of god to save the most respectable person in the world as the most lawless person in the world.
that is the meaning of the word, add to it, furnish it, supplement it, make the thing complete, let it be a full-orbed faith.
as long as you go on thinking about yourself and saying: ‘ah, yes, i would like to, but i am not good enough; i am a sinner, a great sinner,’ you are denying god and you will never be happy.
that is the whole secret of the matter.
our lord said to peter: ‘o thou of little faith’.
matt 16:24 just as jesus bore a cross when he came to save us, so we who follow him also bear a cross.
no earthly monarch could have power  to consent to such a change.
faith is not something that acts automatically, faith is not something that acts magically.
john tells us in his gospel that when  jesus came into the world, he was full of truth and grace (john 1:14).
ah, but he never would have had that triumph, if he had not paid  all the debt.
jesus conquers death by raising himself from death to life.
there may be a glorious period coming for you, he may have some unusual blessing for you, he may have some great work for you to do.
the weakness of the flesh is in the man, not in the law.
“be like this child!”
i defy you to read the life of any saint that has ever adorned the life of the church without seeing at once that the greatest characteristic in the life of that saint was discipline and order.
this word ‘furnish’ is a greek word that was used in connection with the performance of a drama.
we were headed for a certain loss.
when he stands before you, offering you his life and salvation as a gift, serving you with his blessings and peace, don’t be a stubborn, “i’ll do it my way, self-proclaimed greatest adult,” be like a child who smiles from ear to ear in the presence of the one who loves you and makes his eternal life possible for you.
there are christians – why they unlike other christians who are faithful, and whose lives are effective and living and life-giving – what is the difference?
this message is the beating  heart of christianity.
romans 5:10 faith says: ‘i cannot believe that he who has brought me so far is going to let me down at this point.
simon, the cyrenian, might bear  the cross; but simon, the cyrenian, might not be nailed to it.
“punish me,” he says; “i have put my righteousness on  that man, and i have taken that man’s sins on me.
such worship practices deprive people of the joy of truly christian  worship.
the first sin of humanity in the garden of eden was adam and eve saying, “dear father in heaven, i think we’ll go it alone.”
everything is perfect and there are no problems whatsoever.
the deed is not a  justifiable one, if he were guilty concerning it; and he cannot be justified on  account of it.
he  is in the sepulchre.
if you think like that, you are in a spirit of fear and bondage.
the truth has been presented to them!
sometimes it is something they have said, some word which they once spoke.
thus when life on this earth is over, the soul of the believer goes  immediately to heaven to be with god.
but the god of heaven had a right to do as he pleased.
it is something that has to be exercised.
jesus took care of mount sinai for us,  and he took care of us on mount calvary when he died on the cross for our sins.
many of you, and try to build up your own  babel-tower, to get to heaven.
believers do not go to death as slaves or as prisoners to a dungeon.
we live in an age in which people no longer wish to believe in laws that  bind them because if they did, they would be guilty and afraid when they broke  those laws.
if he gives you faith, he gives you good works after- wards.
if god is angry with us, we are afraid because he is the all-powerful god  who created all things.
this is more of a “who has the ultimate power; who is in complete control;” or maybe say it this way, “who gets to tell everyone else what to do no matter what?”
god, because he is righteous and holy and eternal, could not forgive the sin of man without punishing it.
you purify gold by fire.
john 17:4; heb 4:15; john 15:10 we were supposed to be punished for our sins, for breaking god’s rules and commandments, but god sent a substitute for that too.
it makes aa great aesthetic appeal to them.
now, i’m sure that captain felt as helpless as a child on that boat.
mark 13:9; matt 5:10-12 (persecution) christians will be persecuted, made fun of, ostracized, or penalized in some way.
do you not think you see the scene on earth?
we know that by faith we are holy.
at the center of this  relationship of love between god and his people is jesus.
therefore, god looks at us as if we already had died on the cross and paid  for our sins.
god looks at us and, on the basis of what he sees, declares us to be just  or unjust.
does it not pass all thought?
i’m sure that he was trying as hard as he could to take full control of  the situation.
when we look to jesus, we see a baby and know that he does not come to frighten us but to draw us to himself in love.
that is a lack of discipline.
do they really want to know if they have met his high standards for  leadership and service?
will god accept the ransom, or will  he not?
but these teachings will not cause the people rejoice unless they know what jesus has done for them.
so priceless was the ransom, so princely and  munificent was the price demanded for our souls, one might have thought it  would have been marvellous if christ had paid it by instalments; some of it  now, and some of it then.
why it is to be got for asking only.
christ knows that unless we do give them up, we shall be dashed to pieces at the last, for that rotten trust must ruin us.
we are not concerned simply to attract people emotionally or in the realm of the will, we are concerned to ‘preach the word’.
faith is trust in god.
he will neglect us; he will receive us, he will bless us, he will give us peace.
justification, you know, is a forensic term; it is employed always in a legal sense.
is it, and does it conform to, the apostolic message?
truth comes to the mind and to the understanding enlightened by the holy spirit.
how could he develop a relationship with her?
it is not the time of your entry into the kingdom that matters but the fact that you are in the kingdom.
it was something that rounded off the performance and made it a perfect performance.
he has had doctrine presented to him, he has received the truth.
only the deed done in faith is acceptable.
but i do not quite understand you; i am  something like poor tiff, in that remarkable book ‘dred.’
he rebuked them for being in that state of agitation and terror and alarm while he was with them in the boat.
god sees your sins no more; he sees the righteousness of christ upon you.
that is to say, it is not on account of our own merits but on account of christ that god justified those who believe that they are received into favor for christ’s sake.
knowing jesus is the son of god is essential.
they spend their time in denouncing themselves and in talking about the blackness and darkness of their own hearts.
read about henry martyn, david brainerd, jonathan edwards, the brothers wesley, and whitfield – read their journals.
the office of pastor is not about the one who holds the office but about the one who instituted the office.
divines will puzzle you, if you ask them.
the crosses christians bear are sent by god not only for the benefit of the  one who bears the cross but also for the benefit of others.
the whole man is involved, the mind, the heart and the will, and a common cause of spiritual depression is the failure to realize that the christian life is a whole life, a balance life.
is it not curious that we always become tired and sleepy when we want to read the bible?
rom 6:6; col 2:14 this forgiven life brings us the new life of holiness.
do not be a languid christian, on the point of swooning and fainting and might fail at any moment.
martin luther: “may every single sermon be forever damned which  persuades a person to find security and trust in or through anything whatever  except the pure mercy of god, which is christ.”
hope in god; for i shall again praise him, my salvation and my god.
because of jesus’ life, death, and resurrection, god forgives us and  promises the gift of eternal life in heaven to everyone who believes in his son.
for god has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind.
what can we do about it?
this jesus  was something special and they had an inside track into his new kingdom.
on that  trip, we had to wait for a plane to be fixed, so, you know, it took quite a  while.
he may do it sometimes in order to chastise us..for our slackness and for our failure..failure to discipline ourselves.
when we do tasks god gives us to do, our actions show love for god and glorify him.
you cannot believe in christ, unless you renounce every fault, and resolve to serve him with full purpose of heart.
just one more word here, and then i will leave this  matter of justification.
it means we believe, that as we are wrestling, he is empowering us.
we touch  sinai every day.
they proclaim to people that no matter what they have done god forgives it.
during that year, luther undertook the task of translating the bible from the biblical languages into german.
john 1:29 c.f.w. walther: “it is a great and awful sin not to draw any soul that has been entrusted to us for instruction to jesus and not tell that soul again and again what a treasure it has in the lord jesus, its savior.”
thus jesus announces that from genesis to  revelation, from the first letter of the scripture to the last, god’s  word witnesses to him.
in a sense that is right, but in another sense it is wrong.
he was clinging to  the main-truck with all his might, but in a little time he would fall down on  the deck, and there he would be a mangled corpse.
the whole of the demands of the law were paid down there and then by jehovah jesus, the great high priest of all his people.
but, in the end, the most important thing that he could do was to recognize his utter need for help and let them pull him to safety.
he’s trying to show these disciples that their greatness and strength  with god comes from “knowing your dependency on him and trusting in him  for all things.”
they became known to their opponents as protestants; gradually this name came to apply to all who believed the church should be reformed, even those outside germany.
no, not a word from anybody; peter by looking at the waves himself produced the doubts.
it is that although these things happen to us, yet they only happen ‘for a season’.
‘all have sinned’, jews and gentiles are equally condemned before god.
he will never let you sink, because you belong to him.
for whoever shall keep the whole law and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all.
although we may place the body in the ground, the soul  of that person is in heaven with jesus and the angels and all the saints.
the presence of the holy spirit in us reminds us of our relationship to god.
but in him, in his person and work, god is revealed to us in a way that  truly is unique among all world religions.
who could have believed that any good could come out  of this?
it is essential that we know jesus rose from the dead, but it is more important that we know he rose from the dead for us so we, too, will rise one day to inherit an eternal kingdom.
exodus 20:18-19 they said to moses, “you speak to us, and we will listen; but do not let god speak to us, lest we die.”
oh! believe on christ, poor  sinners; believe on christ.
matthew 15:19 19 for out of the heart come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies; not only certain big sins but every sin, any sin, anything that suggests a wrong relationship to god – lawlessness, breaking the law.
the deed is not a justifiable one, if he were guilty concerning it; and he cannot be justified on account of it.
do you see me; did you see what i did?
put a mitre on his head; clothe him in royal raiment; make him rich and fair; that is justification.
it is christ, christ, christ—christ only.
the father called for a gun, and pointing it up at him, said, “boy, the next time the ship lurches, throw yourself into the sea, or i’ll shoot you!”
matt 27:51 now that the lamb of god had been sacrificed, the curtain was torn from top to bottom because this lamb had taken away the sins of the world.
there the powers of evil converged on jesus and  released their full fury.
because we do not wish to be afraid, we have abolished everything that  could frighten us.
on the contrary, everything we learn in the bible about our behavior reveals that we never will and never can measure up to the requirements of god’s law.
but these  teachings will not cause the people rejoice unless they know what jesus has  done for them.
now let your minds picture the buried jesus.
in the world you shall have tribulation, but be of good cheer.
i must do when i find myself in a difficult situation is to refuse to allow myself to be controlled by the situation.
you must keep on looking to him every day.
the slave was not allowed to say ‘abba’ and ..he regards god as a judge who condemns.
certain people are in this position simply because they are moved aesthetically by the presentation of the gospel, by the atmosphere of the church, the painted windows, the monuments, the ritual, the hymns sung, the music, the sermon..
that is to say, it is not on account of our own merits but on account  of christ that god justified those who believe that they are received into  favor for christ’s sake.
scripture is full of this idea of the trial of one’s faith.
by rev. gregory seltz filed under:  uncategorized — leave a comment september 6, 2011 presented on the lutheran hour on  september 4, 2011 by rev. gregory seltz, speaker of the lutheran hour matthew 18:1-4 grace and peace to you in jesus’ name, amen.
it is grace at the beginning, grace at the end.
and what do family members do for one another?
such pride can even kill.
if god is angry with us, we are afraid because he is the all-powerful god who created all things.
and i will restore to you the years which the swarming locust has eaten, he has promised to do it; he can do it.
the law does not create, sustain, or strengthened faith; it will only kill.
that is faith when the poor sinner lets go his hold,  drops down, and so is saved; and the very thing which looks as if it would  destroy him, is the means of his being saved.
however, the guilt and the death that result from our sin must be  addressed, which our lord provides for too.
there is not such a thing as justification to be had on earth for mortal men, except in one way.
this confusion is old trouble.
by doing so, he was unswervingly advocating his commitment to sola fide, the doctrine of justification by faith alone.
they had desired to see him, and now their eyes behold him in flesh and blood, the conqueror over death and hell!
they proclaim to people that no matter what they have done god forgives  it.
what exactly do we see?
to express this life-changing message, i have attempted, as much as is  possible, to limit myself to demonstrating one simple, yet profound truth:  jesus is at the center of all that is truly christian.
this parable, like other parables, is meant to teach one great truth.
their attitude is: ‘very well, in the light of that doctrine (justification by faith) it does not matter what a man does, the more he sins the more god will be glorified in forgiving him.
there is a story told of  a captain of a man-of-war, whose son—a young lad—was very fond of  running up the rigging of the ship; and one time, running after a monkey, he  ran up the mast, till at last he got on to the maintruck.
thus the message of  sinai is silenced.
john 3:17 the truth that we are justified by grace through faith in jesus christ is the doctrine on which the church stands or falls.
joshua comes in, clothed in filthy garments; those filthy garments representing his sins.
where there is a failure to know and believe these things, faith is weak.
for some of all sorts hath jesus christ given himself a ransom that they might be redeemed unto himself.
death is not the snuffing out of the human being.
and with that the reformation was born.
we will need to cry out like that if we only keep on looking at him.
he cannot rob our salvation, thank god, but while he cannot rob our salvation he can make us miserable.
the message begins with the word and sacraments in our  congregations.
the picture he has oin mind is of a test being applied to something, and then after it has been tested a certificate is given.
son of my love,” said he, “you must stand in the sinner’s place; you must suffer what he ought to have suffered; you must be accounted guilty, just as he was accounted guilty; and then i will look upon the sinner in another light.
we are light paul, wretched in our inability to do what is right and at the  same time rejoicing in the victory we have through jesus christ our savior.
they seem to have had a kind of magical view of faith; that as long as you have faith all is well, that your faith will work automatically in your life, and that all you need to do as a christian is just to believe the truth.
the student never becomes proficient in any subject without hard work.
instead, our comfort, assurance, and hope come from jesus, who alone atones  for sin and whose righteousness has merit before god.
the preaching of the gospel is despised when people do not hear the law and come to the knowledge of their sin.
matt 16:24 just as jesus bore a cross when he came to save us, so we who follow him  also bear a cross.
but unless we know and believe that jesus is the son of god who has come to forgive, all is nothing.
this ‘spirit of bondage’ always brings with it and in its train, a spirit of fear.
it means that you do not know what grace is.’
no roman warrior ever had such a triumph; none ever saw such a majestic sight.
john writes his first epistle to little children and young men and old men.
it takes bravado to even think that you are that person,  doesn’t it?
i  find in the bible, “this is a faithful saying, and worthy of all  acceptation, that christ jesus came into the world to save sinners.”
this lamb of god was sacrificed for the sins of the whole world, and now god passes over all our guilt, shame, and every single sin we have ever committed.
and you shall set bounds to the people round about, saying, take heed to yourselves.
christians often have just as many problems as their non-believing  neighbors – and sometimes more.
he obeys, not grudgingly or unwillingly, but with the whole heart.
they want to know how they stack up among each other.
‘tis true he has paid all the debt, but the receipt  is not yet given; he slumbers in that narrow tomb.
if you have dealt with them already, do not go back over them.
paul says the form of doctrine came to them.
for pastors, this means that when they preach about jesus they are to preach not only that he is the son of god but also that he is the son of god who came to forgive.
it is equally wrong to have any two only..
they have a wrong view of faith.
as luther was leaving the city, his friends staged a kidnapping to protect him and took him away in a fast horse through the forest.
unfortunately, we have got some good works of our own, like that maintruck, and we cling to them so fondly, that we never will give them up.
luther called this the “blessed exchange” that occurs between christ and the sinner.
it’s not because we are young and naïve.
he left out something that is absolutely vital and that vital something is circumcision.
look to christ and to christ alone and to nothing and no one else, that you stop looking at particular sins and particular people.
“but,” says one, “no one is justified like that, till he  dies.”
god the son became a human being, was born of the virgin mary, and lived his entire life on earth so he could save sinful people and restore them to their heavenly father.
if that young man over there has really believed in christ this morning,  realizing by a spiritual experience what i have attempted to describe, he is as  much justified in god’s sight now as he will be when he stands before the  throne.
we must always put these things in the right order, and it is truth first.
that is the extreme form of this idea that holiness, and the cultivation of holiness and the spiritual life, is a whole-life occupation, and that you must devote yourself exclusively to it and have your rules, etc., to enable you to live.
and you draw out a bar of chocolate or whatever else you want.
do not go one praying frantically to be forgiven that sin.
in a sense it is the masterpiece of satan.
let him reign in heaven; let me suffer misery.
the more we understand the law, the more we realize we cannot live up to its demands for perfection.
‘tis true he has paid all the debt, but the receipt is not yet given; he slumbers in that narrow tomb.
he could  put on his royal garments and impress her with his regal entourage, and drive  up to her front door with soldiers and a carriage drawn by six horses.
some of you will go one way to work, and some another.
romans 6:17 17 ye became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching whereunto ye were delivered; man is a wonderful creature, he is mind, he is heart and he is will.
if you  continue in sin, you must not come to christ; you cannot; your sins will hamper  you.
rather, jesus was stating that the old testament is all  about him.
i remember watching the tv show, “savage seas,” and on this  particular show, a large ocean vessel was sailing in the bering sea.
they are wasting their time and energy in vain regrets about things which they cannot change or undo, a purely foolish and irrational thing to do even from the mundane standard of common sense.
we are given the gift of faith by god through the holy spirit and we believe on the lord jesus christ and that saves us; but that does not mean that we have fully understood the nature of faith.
in simple terms, a substitute takes the place of another.
abraham was blest, not after circumcision but before circumcision.
the word began to be translated into common languages.
so their tendency is to think that because they have not been guilty of these particular things, that they are not really sinners at all.
jesus is the lamb, the great passover lamb.
we often lead ourselves into depression, we lead ourselves into doubts by dabbling with certain things which should be avoided.
romans 6:1-4; 11-12 to die to sin means more than simply that we are forgiven.
he may be pardoned; but not royalty itself can ever wash that man’s character.
romans 14:23b st paul described the spiritual condition of the ephesian congregation  before faith in this way: ephesians 2:1 1
no, the truth was presented.
this attitude is seen in a classic manner in the roman catholic church and her teaching, in the whole idea of monasticism, which is nothing but a great exhibition of this very thing.
what does jesus say will happen to his disciples if they are faithful to  him?
having believed on him you must shut the door to certain things and refuse to look at them.
and when christ paid all this ransom, will you just notice, that he did it  all himself!
it is possible, and it has happened unfortunately, for people to be persuaded to take up christianity.
standing on sinai, we will never appear before our god as holy, pure, and just.
it’s not because we are trying to avoid the tough questions  and issues of adulthood.
the cross of suffering has become a sign for all christians, a sign of  salvation, hope, and everlasting life.
moses brought  the law, and every word of it was true.
it was, in truth,  his only way of escape; he might be picked up out of the sea, but he could not  be rescued if he fell on the deck.
thus almost every sin that god forbids – is justified today by those who wish to commit it.
augsburg confession, the book of concord, theodore tappert, pg 31: in order that we may obtain this faith, the ministry of teaching the gospel and administering the sacraments was insstituted.
his mission on earth was for us as he died for  the sins of the entire world, including your sins and mine.
it does not matter what we are by temperament; we are all saved in the way, by the same act of god in and through his son, our lord and savior jesus christ.
then the message of jesus’ love and what he has done for  us moves into our family life..and whatever other vocation god has given to us.
indeed you will not!
we do not have to be  afraid of doing the right thing.
you will never be disappointed with such a faith as that.
and death gave up his royal captive, the stone was rolled into the garden, and the conqueror came forth, leading captivity captive.
the message  about jesus – who he is, what he has done for us – is the message  that brings us to faith in god.
he is always to be controlled.. the second lesson: what is so wrong about being in this condition is that it implies a lack of trust and of confidence in him.
the only thing which is going to drive a man to christ and make him rely upon christ alone, is a true conviction of sin.
but, sir, can i be justified?
and i thank christ jesus our lord, who strengthened me, because he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry – 13 the one who before was a blasphemer and a persecutor and insolent.
we have become the center and purpose of our lives, and we believe that we justify ourselves.
rom 8:1 the center of the christian faith is that god has punished christ in our  place.
there are not two zions,  but one.
instead, our substitute kept god’s law for us.
but if  he did this, he would never be certain that the girl loved him or was simply  overwhelmed with his power, position, and wealth.
what is the nature of faith, the character of faith?
—– john 16:33 33 i have spoken these things to you so that you might have peace in me.
the ultimate cause of all spiritual depression is unbelief.
two thieves hung there with him, that men might see that there was majesty in his misery, and that he could pardon men and show his sovereignty, even when he was dying.
they had  experienced the mount of transfiguration glow of his godliness.
that is the means which god has employed.
these letters are pastoral letters written primarily because the apostle was concerned to help people to an actual enjoyment and out-living of the christian faith which they had believed and accepted.
we are citizens of the kingdom of god, but the bible tells us that we are opposed by another kingdom..
god purposed and planned aa great way of redemption.
christians do not honor god because they will be damned if they don’t.
john 17:3 3 and this is life eternal, that they might know you, the only true god, and jesus christ whom you have sent.
the miserable christian is wrong in his ideas as to how this rightness with god is to be obtained.
christians often have just as many problems as their non-believing neighbors – and sometimes more.
first and foremost he emphasizes ‘all diligence.’
we do not have to be afraid of doing the right thing.
there is also a subsidiary cause … this condition is almost entirely due to an ignorance of doctrine – a failure to understand the nt doctrine of salvation clearly and this is the very essence of the treatment of the condition.
now, allow me to explain the way whereby god justifies a sinner.
and the word became flesh, and tabernacled among us.
the trouble with this type of unhappy christian is that he does not really believe the scriptures.
psalms 3 every one has turned away; they have altogether become filthy; not one is doing good, no, not even one.
there is such a thing as false peace, there such a thing as believing delusions.
the cross of suffering has become a sign for all christians, a sign of salvation, hope, and everlasting life.
unless the holy spirit working through the gospel raises us to spiritual  life, we will remain in spiritual bondage.
nay, friends, we cannot buy heaven with gold nor good works, nor prayers, nor anything in the world.
according to the catholic church, their merits were “stored up” in heaven, where they could be dispersed by the pope – for a price.
john 15:5; 14:6 all worship apart from jesus does not worship the true god because apart  from jesus we cannot know god as a loving, gracious father who forgives and  saves sinners for the sake of his son who gave himself for them.
redemption is a greater even than creation, and especially when we consider the way in which god has achieved it, even through the sending of his only begotten son, into this world in all marvel and the wonder and the miracle of the incarnation, but above all in delivering him up to the death upon the cross.
now, the maintruck,  you are aware, is like a large round table put on to the mast, so that when the  boy was on the maintruck there was plenty of room for him; but the difficulty  was—to use the best explanation i can—that he could not reach the  mast that was under the table; he was not tall enough to get down from this  maintruck, reach the mast, and so descend.
we walk by faith, the whole of our life is a matter of faith..this is so precious in the sight of god, it is marvelous, it is so wonderful that god wants it to be absolutely pure.
all of it comes from a simple trust in god who provides all things for us.
then jesus said to those jews who believed him, “if you abide in my word, you are my disciples indeed.
the work was completely done by himself, without a helper.
earlier, he had even challenged jesus’ kingdom leadership when he rebuked  jesus’ talk about suffering and crosses in his kingdom.
the christian should know why he is a christian.
so, they were the chosen ones, and now they want to know what that might mean for them.
they have been content to live on their feelings.
god does not give us truth simply so we can be correct in what we believe.
but god loves us, so he shows us our weaknesses and places crosses on us to return us to calvary, to cause us to cry out daily to him for mercy.
that is why our faith ultimately can conquer evil in this world – not because nothing will ever go wrong for us and we will never suffer, never sin, and never succumb to temptation, but because the son of god took on himself our human flesh and his suffering, death, and resurrection robbed the devil and his evil forces of all hope for a final victory.
what is the real trouble?
that person is .. jesus christ.
when they returned, they showed the pardons they had bought to luther, claiming they no longer had to repent for their sins.
however, they now begin to look positively at the christian life, and they turn it into a new kind of law, with the result that they get into a spirit of bondage and of serfdom.
and with that there was an instant uproar.
thus jesus is at the center of all christian worship.
all along we have to draw subtle distinctions and here is one of them, the distinction between a legitimate regret and a wrong condition of dejection and of misery.
i am thinking of people who are quite clear about their relationship to the law – the ten commandments, or the moral law – as a way of salvation.
the heart is always to be influenced through understanding – the mind, then the heart, then the will.
that day martin luther fulfilled jon hus’s prophecy from a hundred years earlier.
while waiting, i got a chance to see several kids playing together at  the airport gate.
john 15:5; 14:6 all worship apart from jesus does not worship the true god because apart from jesus we cannot know god as a loving, gracious father who forgives and saves sinners for the sake of his son who gave himself for them.
as a rule it is some action, some big thing.
that same year, luther again refused to recant his writings before the holy roman emperor charles v of germany, who issued the famous edict of worms declaring luther an outlaw and a heretic and giving permission for anyone to kill him without consequence.
now, what flesh and blood cannot do, that jesus christ by his redemption did.
do not ask him for a message of forgiveness.
everyone of those men was tried.
but according to paul, to say such things means that we are ‘fallen from grace’.
but that is the terrible error of antinomianism.
jesus uses the first and last letters of the greek alphabet (alpha and omega) to describe himself.
lastly, has this work kept me going?
there the verdict of guilty is brought in, and yet we are immediately afterwards said to be justified freely by his grace.
he could order her to marry him.
why are these people lacking of discipline in their lives, why is this slackness, this indolence so apparent in their lives?
my soul is very sorrowful, even to death.
it is quite common among evangelical christians.
christianity is christ, and christian faith means believing things about him and knowing him, knowing that he is the lord of glory come down amongst us, knowing something about the incarnation and the virgin birth, knowing why he came, knowing what he did when he came, knowing about his atoning work, knowing that he came, as he said himself, not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance…, knowing that ‘his own self bare our sins in his body on the tree, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness; by whose stripes ye were healed.’
clearly the righteousness of the christian, the righteousness by which we  stand justified before god, is not our own righteousness – it’s an  alien righteousness, a righteousness that comes not from within us but from  outside of us.
so you must stop praying and think, and work out your doctrine.
your business and mine is not to stir up our feelings, it is to believe.
“but,” says one, “i think if i were to do a few good works, it would be a little recommendation when i came.”
the test of truth is apostolicity.
doubts are very foolish.
they are tremendously interested in the gospel as a point of view, as a christian philosophy.
the term “protestant” first appeared in 1529, when charles v revoked a provision that allowed the ruler of each german state to choose whether they would enforce the edict of worms.
no one can say that jesus didn’t come  for men didn’t die for me.
he is our father and he is always caring for us, he loves us with an everlasting love, he so loved us that he sent his only begotten son into this world and to the cross to die for our sins.
the  true grace jesus brings covers every sin.
john bunyan  would have it, that there are some whose mouths are set a watering for this  great gift of justification.
we may stop our ears so we  cannot hear it, but the thunder still rumbles.
christ comes in, puts me aside, and stands himself in my  stead.
i  have overcome the world.
why do we have scores of magazines whose only concern is “who is the greatest, who is the most powerful, who makes the most money, who are the most beautiful,” when all of these things are temporal and fleeting?
to answer this question, we must explore a central, indeed  fundamental, christian concept..
we start as children in the christian life and we want everything at once, and if it does not come, we become impatient and grumble, we complain and sulk like children.
and, finally, a helicopter arrived, pulling  the crew to safety, one by one.
a few disciples are  standing upon a hill, and christ mounts into the air in slow and solemn  movement, as if an angel sped his way by gentle degrees, like mist or  exhalation from the lake into the skies.
romans 6:6,11 6 knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be destroyed, that from now on we should not serve sin.
protected by prince frederick, luther began working on a german translation of the bible, a task that took 10 years to complete.
but he is able to go on and to add: ‘i labored more abundantly than they all, yet not i, but the grace of god which was with me.’
in the face of such rebellion aand defiance, jesus says: matthew 5:18 18
for others, he was a controversial political figure, a lightning rod in the midst of vietnam politics and the civil rights movement.
but such bravado is eternally deadly when our self-centered, over-confidence exists in the arena of our spiritual lives, our life with god.
”—sir, you will be damned if you hold by such delusions.
faith brings us into  the family of god.
the office of the ministry is not a mosaic office.
people need to hear that jesus brings grace it is wonderful that people believe the pastor when he preaches about trinity, the incarnation..
he is just, therefore, and the justifier of them that believe in jesus.
(consider the basketball game).
if god declares us unjust, then, of course, he is unhappy with or  angry at what he sees.
for truly i say to you, till the heaven and the earth
an angel comes from heaven with exceeding brightness; he  rolls away the stone; and forth comes the captive, with no manacles upon his  hands, with the grave clothes left behind him; free, never more to suffer,  never more to die.
now god points us to another mountain, a mountain on which we can meet  him and live.
john 3:3; 2 cor 5:19 those who do not believe this message of grace receive none of its blessings.
that was the trouble with the churches in galatia; all their problems emanated from a certain false teaching which they had believed.
vital importance of distinguishing between the original gift of faith and the walk of faith, or the life of faith which comes subsequently.
the father  called for a gun, and pointing it up at him, said, “boy, the next time  the ship lurches, throw yourself into the sea, or i’ll shoot you!”
then that in turn leads to this, that your greatest desire will be to practise it and to live it.
and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the father, full of grace and of truth.
yes, sir, you are to have it for nothing, or else not at all; it is “freely.”
the holy spirit shows us jesus, how much he loved us, how he sacrificed  himself for us..
i am adopted into god’s family, and i am an heir with christ, a joint-heir with him.
to answer this crucial question, we can look at three biblical mountains: mount sinai, mount calvary, and mount zion.
“i shall go to heaven,” you say; “do not i keep good friday and christmas-day?
he says: i will restore to you the years the locust hath eaten.
that is faith, it holds on to the truth and reasons from what it knows to be fact.
contrary to his calculations, the ship was headed right into devil’s jaw,  a scant two miles off the california coast.
and after that, we may “rejoice in hope of the glory of god,” that  “being justified by faith we have peace with god, through our lord jesus  christ.”
it’s not because we are trying to avoid the tough questions and issues of adulthood.
for i am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of god, which is in christ jesus our lord.
false teaching can appear in many different forms..
hollywood has their version of luther standing there boldly with his fist in the air saying, “here i stand!”
when jesus cried out from the cross that it was finished (john 19:30), he was declaring that nothing more needed to be done to redeem people from sin, death, and hell.
without warning, about half way on  their training mission, a thick blanket of fog descended on the ships.
i will give him the parable we have given to us in the prophets—the parable of joshua the high-priest.
all the teachings of the bible revolve around jesus, its  pulsating center, the savior of the world.
obviously the whole strategy of the adversary of our souls, and god’s adversary, is to depress us and to make us look as this man looked when he was passing through this period of unhappiness.
god tests us by trials as if by fire in order that the things which do not belong to the essence of faith may fall off.
is there anything he cannot do?
it is only people who have understood the truth who desire it.
you must realize that you are not living by yourselves.
ecclesiastes 11:6 6 in the morning sow your seed, and in the evening do not withhold your hand; for you do not know what shall be blessed, either this or that, or whether they both shall be fruitful in the same way.
nothing was left undone – ‘it is finished.’
“no,” you would  say, “you are a miserable impostor; you do not want anything, and you  shall not have anything either!
so that, as one of the prophets has it, god sees no sin in jacob nor  iniquity in israel.
there is only lightning and thunder, god’s anger and death.
people may say they believe on christ, but then they tend to deduce that if you believe in christ you are safe and it does not matter what you do.
and he was carried away, finally, to safety.
history has known many hours but none as black as those hours when the son of god was on the cross.
in response, martin luther picked up his pen to challenge the entire penitential system of the roman catholic church, which undermined in principle the free remission of sins that is ours in the gospel.
these trials are essential, says peter, in order to show the genuineness of our faith.
and after that, we may “rejoice in hope of the glory of god,” that “being justified by faith we have peace with god, through our lord jesus christ.”
you will never be  disappointed with such a faith as that.
“whosoever will, let him come and take of the water  of life freely.”
jesus  brings truth for the sake of grace, that is, for the sake of god’s  undeserved kindness.
it is a perfect washing, it is perfect pardon, perfect imputation; we are fully, freely, and wholly accepted, through christ our lord.
then a wave threw him over the side of the boat onto the undulating ice flow.
isaiah 41:4 4 who has planned and done it, calling forth the generations from the beginning?
the whole man must be involved in itt and by it.
but god took this darkest moment and out of it he brought forgiveness, life, and everlasting glory.
what we remind one another of as we take the bread and the wine, and what we proclaim, is that completed finished work.
jesus paid for  every last sin when he hung on the cross.
they have all disciplined their lives and have insisted upon the need for this; and obviously it is something that is thoroughly scriptural and absolutely essential.
1cor 2:2; john 3:30 pastors spend many years ..preaching, marrying, burying, comforting,  admonishing sinners, visiting the sick..
the christian faith  stands or falls with the resurrection of jesus.
no, being a child of god means that we never forget the ultimate source of our forgiveness, our strength, our wisdom, our life, even our peace in this tense world.
matthew puts it: ‘o ye of little faith.’
if you are all unholy come to christ; if you feel your sin, and renounce it, come to christ; though you have been the most debased and abandoned soul, come to christ; if you feel yourself to have nothing about you that can recommend you, come to christ.
you may fail him, you may feel you are on the point of going down once and for ever, finally.
because zion understands  life as it really is, lutherans do not live in denial.
if we have seen our need and go to god and confess it, god will give us his own son’s righteousness.
can you think how loud were the plaudits when he entered the gates of heaven?
but how do we get this faith in jesus?
for some of  all sorts hath jesus christ given himself a ransom that they might be redeemed  unto himself.
but we must never forget that over and against us is another power.
am i better than you?
and now, by the help of god’s spirit, let me address myself to the effect of the ransom; being justified—”justified freely by his grace through the redemption.”
do you see abraham, isaac, jacob, and all the saints redeemed, come to behold the saviour and the lord?
to exorcise this fear, our postmodern society has done everything possible  to dilute god’s law.
he  is the one who fulfilled god’s holy law for us.
i’m sure that kids in jesus’ day were much like kids in our day.
it is the putting of another person  in the rebel’s place.
now, “if jesus had not paid the debt, he ne’er had been at freedom set.”
james and john wanted positions of power in jesus’ kingdom.
virtue here means energy, moral energy, it means power, it means vigor.
henceforth m desire is not to keep the law but to please my father.
when christ declared that he would pay the debt for all his people, god sent the officer to arrest him for it; he arrested him in the garden of gethsemane, and seizing upon him, he dragged him to the bar of pilate, to the bar of herod, and to the judgment seat of caiaphas; the payment was all made, and christ was put into the grave.
if ye died with christ from the rudiments of the world, why, as though living in the world, do ye subject yourselves to ordinances, handle not, nor taste, nor touch (all which things are to perish with the using), after the precepts and doctrines of men?
in the kingdom of god and of christ the standpoint is that of grace, and off grace alone; and it cuts across all other regulations.
jesus points to the child because the child points straight back to him.
it is also a fear of the greatness of the task.
when we talk to others, the heart is never to be approached directly.
for if you believe in christ he will not let you live as your flesh liketh; by his spirit he will constrain you to mortify its affections and lusts.
the benefits of calvary must continue to be dispensed to zion.
we fouled out the game of life, so to speak, right at the start..
the finest love comes from jesus and his  sacrifices for us on the cross.
i’m not even going to  give you “my opinion” of whether he was the best boxer that ever  lived (because i’m probably more of a joe frazier, george foreman fan).
then as you see the glorious truth about the love of christ you will want it, you will desire it.
we have become the center and purpose of our lives, and we believe that we  justify ourselves.
so god decided to send his angel to strike dead all the firstborn of the people of egypt.
he rebukes them because of their alarm, because of their terror, because of their lack of faith.
he can, if we are foolish enough to listen to him seriously limit our enjoyment of our salvation.
but if he did this, he would never be certain that the girl loved him or was simply overwhelmed with his power, position, and wealth.
who could have believed that any good could come out of this?
totally exhausted, with no strength left, he was helpless.
by showing sinners the savior who loved the world and gave himself for it,  the gospel raises sinners from spiritual death to spiritual life.
we must not think on terms of particular sins but always in terms of our relationship to god.
everything here is different.
the thinder can no longer be heard.
i will give him a crown in  heaven, and i will take him to my heart for ever and ever.”
he could not get her off his heart.
obviously, therefore, the supreme concern of the adversary, the devil, the opponent, is to endeavor somehow or other, to bring this work of god to discredit and dishonor.
but thanks be to our god that you were the slaves of sin, but you have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine to which you were delivered.
they talk  a great deal about a door, but i cannot see the door; they talk a great deal  about the way, but i cannot see the way.
christianity is common sense and much more ..
he imputes christ’s righteousness to us who believe in him, and regards us as righteous, and declares and pronounces us to be righteous in him.
it is truth that frees – the truth about him, in his person, in his work, in his offices, christ as he is.
and death gave up  his royal captive, the stone was rolled into the garden, and the conqueror came  forth, leading captivity captive.
all three mountains explain why jesus is at the center of scripture and the christian faith.
apart from jesus there is no hope, no forgiveness, no eternal life.
the wasted years, the barren years, the years that the locusts and the canker worms and the caterpillars and all these other thing have devoured, until there was nothing apparently left, of them
—- chapter 9 laborers in the vineyard matt 20:1-16
that is one of the greatest tests a christian can ever have.
not the one whose whole goal in life is to go it completely on their own, to go it alone.
you must be made miserable before you can know true christian joy.
mommy, daddy, look at what i’m doing.”
a prisoner has been tried, and condemned to death.
to answer this question, we must explore a central, indeed fundamental, christian concept..
there is no hope for us there.
there is no means among men of justifying a man of an accusation which  is laid against him, except by his being proved not guilty.
the writer to the  hebrews tells us that whoever comes to this mountain cannot touch it because it  is .. heb 12:18-21 the writer to hebrews does not exaggerate about this mountain and the  penalties incurred by those who touch it.
i mean that he prepares him for a great trial by giving him some lesser trials.
as the weather started to close in, they had trouble even getting him into the basket.
the  way whereby god saves a sinner is not, as some say, by passing over the  penalty.
you do not give in or give way.
the righteousness of which paul speaks means rightness with god.
god looks at us and declares us to be just because of what jesus has done.
the second principle is the precious character of faith.
he is not angry when he looks at us because he sees holy and sinless sons  and daughters.
now, we, like the boy, are in a position of extra-ordinary danger, by  nature, which neither you nor i can possibly escape of ourselves.
but it only showed people their sins, their weaknesses, their failings, their lack of love for the god who gave that law.
the day is coming when you will be vulnerable again.
despite what we are, despite what we have done, god loves us.
it may mean you will have to control even your eating and your drinking.
what does god sees when he looks at us?
1cor 15:17-19 those who den the resurrection of jesus and who would reduce christianity to a set of moral principles have little to do with the apostle paul, who declares..
now, that is not surprising, for hunter was known for his self-confident decisiveness and what others called his magic infallibility to guide his ship.
how could he  cast himself down into it?
luke 17:10 10 even so ye also, when ye shall have done all the things that are commanded you, say, we are unprofitable servants; we have done that which it was our duty to do.
knowledge does not simply mean knowledge of doctrine.
there is no other commandment greater than these.
the proclamation of the law confronts sinners with their sin.
the gospel declares us holy, so now we see god’s law eye-to-eye and  it does not kill us.
they thought that they would hear him speak about the power of faith to face down the evils of nazism and secularism.
this righteousness of god in jesus christ.
here is the only standard.
—- chapter 9 weary in well doing (gal. 6:9)
he says, “i have trodden the wine press alone; and of the  people there was none with me.”
truly to see the truth means that you are moved by it and that you love it.
therefore, this office constantly points to jesus, his person and his work, so  faith in the son of god may be created and the church expanded.
but there is one who can stand on this mountain.
thus the angel of death passed over the homes protected by the blood of a lamb but took the firstborn of all the families of egypt.
this isn’t that kind of  discussion.
do we keep god’s law because we are afraid of what he will do to us if we  don’t?
that is always the trouble with weak faith, it comes back again to questions which it has already solved and answered.
it is a difficult work, but you have to study it and give yourself to it.
when the plea is demanded, christ says, “guilty;” takes my guilt to be his own guilt.
it is an office created by god to proclaim jesus as savior,  as the one who bore all the world’s sin and guilt that he might bring  grace and forgiveness to sinners.
the answer is to be found in the word ‘for’ – ‘for the kingdom of heaven’.
no scene in sacred history ever gladdens the soul like the scene on calvary.
in such a religious life, obedience is rendered not out of love for their god but out of fear and the desire to avoid judgment and punishment.
you will remember the multitude he has redeemed; not me alone, nor you alone, but “a multitude that no man can number,” which shall as far exceed the stars of heaven for number, as they exceed all mortal reckoning.
it is because we belong to him that the devil will do his utmost to disturb and upset us.
he understands our temptations because he has experienced them, and he comes to love and comfort us.
1cor 10:13; heb 4:15-16; matt 28:20; ps 50:15; 1peter 2:11; 1peter 1:4; rom 8:18, 28 even as christians, our sinful flesh continues to tempt us to believe that we can ddo without god’s grace, without his mercy, without christ.
with the honor of being the greatest in our society or even among  our family and friends, with that honor comes power, prestige, and  status….even control.
and they believed that they could do that, because they had never understood the law.
in luther’s day, the only hope for reduced time in purgatory for members of the church came in the form of indulgences; these merits were based on the sinless life and perfect works of jesus and mary, his mother.
though prince frederick iii
(illustration of 4-month old dirk who trusts in 9 year old brother seth and not his 3 year old sister kirsten).
to exorcise this fear, our postmodern society has done everything possible to dilute god’s law.
how can god acquit us?
he can keep us from falling.
i will give him a crown in heaven, and i will take him to my heart for ever and ever.”
many a man had ended as a drunkard..and people take to drugs and various other things.
father, punish me, and  consider that man to have been me.
he tells the story of a prince who was running an  errand for his father one day in the local village.
what do you add to faith?
there the powers of evil converged on jesus and released their full fury.
if god declares us just, then that means he is happy  with what he sees.
not only do i knock ‘em out, i pick the round.
but again he stood upright: “nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done.”
jesus took care of mount sinai for us, and he took care of us on mount calvary when he died on the cross for our sins.
john 3:17 the truth that we are justified by grace through faith in jesus christ is  the doctrine on which the church stands or falls.
on that trip, we had to wait for a plane to be fixed, so, you know, it took quite a while.
we touch sinai every day.
then god establishes the office of the ministry of the word of the prophets and the apostles will continue to be preached to god’s people until the savior returns.
spiritual depression or unhappiness in the christian life is very often due to our failure to realize the greatness of the gospel.
this surprised luther because he thought he was going to have an opportunity to defend his writings; but the only question really of any importance that was asked of him was this: “are these your writings?”
just one more word here, and then i will leave this matter of justification.
i tell you, sir, if you bring in any of your deservings, you shall never have it.
the one who is totally dependent on god for his source of life and strength, like a little child.
what is chastisement, what does it mean?
they come in different was and colors, in different shapes and forms and there is no end to the variety.
the poor man was miserable and held in bondage.
this sends hearers back to sinai!
in the moment they believe, their sins being imputed to christ, they cease to be theirs, and christ’s righteousness is imputed to them and accounted theirs, so that they are accepted.
there were no righteous men  to suffer; no disciples shared his death; peter was not dragged there to be  beheaded, john was not nailed to a cross side by side with him; he was left  there alone.
what shall we say then?
we should have  kept the law, but we didn’t.
they see that christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law; they are quite clear about their justification.
the whole purpose of these gospels is to portray jesus.
such churches are obviously living on artificial stimulants.. the pastor or some other responsible person has said: ‘we are just in a rut, we are becoming rather dead.
believing in him we shall never fall but keep straight on.
the office of the ministry is not an office about the pastor, it is an office about jesus.
through jesus we come to see god as  gracious.
the eyewitnesses of that episode tell us that when luther’s little covered wagon appeared around the corner of the bend, there were lookouts posted in the church tower at worms.
the will is never to be approached directly either.
ultimately, we see jesus bearing the guilt and sin of the whole world on  that cross and know that he understands our shame.
god doesn’t give us everything we ask for or good health or money or  success because we have enough faith.
we should keep our eyes on jesus, hebrews 12:2 2 looking to jesus the author and finisher of our faith,  who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame,  and sat down at the right of the throne of god.
1cor 2:2; john 3:30 pastors spend many years ..preaching, marrying, burying, comforting, admonishing sinners, visiting the sick..
do they really want to know if they have met his high standards for leadership and service?
if i could preach justification to you by walking a hundred miles, would we not be pilgrims tomorrow morning, every one of us?
“being justified freely by his grace, through the redemption that is in christ jesus.
but that didn’t stop hunter  from plowing ahead.
his  father saw that, and he looked up in horror; what was he to do?
we must have an accurate view of things.
apart from christ, there is no such thing as a goood work in god’s eyes.
it may deny the fact that (2 cor 5:21) him who knew no sin he made to be sin on our behalf; that we might become the righteousness of god in him.
i hate to be the one to tell you this even if you are a powerful person today.
this church is one  throughout the whole world, and it is one in heaven.
you may be working too hard physically.
this the holy spirit works by faith, and therefore without coercion a man is willing and desirous to do good to everyone, to serve everyone, to suffer everything for the love of god and to his glory, who has been so gracious to him.
and human history is littered with such self-destructiveness, but we never seem to learn from it, either for ourselves or for others.
society has done all it can to eliminate god’s law and thereby extinguish god’s anger.
to be forgiven means the sins that used to accuse us can’t accuse us  anymore.
in fact, jesus’ resurrection is the declaration that god already has  defeated all evil through christ, his son.
why did not everybody believe that?
we must realize the greatness of the gospel, its vast eternal span.
while it is perfectly right for such people to regret the fact they have been slow to believe, it is quite wrong to be miserable about it.
he is if he sees sinful people, lawbreakers,  commandment violaters.
society does its best tto abbreviate, adumbrate, and  eliminate god’s law.
this fellowship is the eternal feast of everlasting righteousness, which is  given to the family of god by the lamb who was slain.
because of this blessed exchange, christ has taken our place and we take our  place before god in christ.
once god starts working
we will agree that they must be wrong.
christians do not serve  god because they are afraid of his anger.
it needs discipline and application.
do you think you see him, with hell at his chariot-
it shows us for what we are – sinners.
christ hath bought for himself, some out of every kingdom, and  nation, and tongue, under heaven; he hath redeemed from among men some of every  rank, from the highest to the lowest; some of every colour—black and  white; some of every standing in society, the best and the worst.
“twenty thousand pounds.”
but if you cleave to your own notions, and say,  “no, sir, i mean to do a great many good things, and then i will believe  in christ.
so that when you and i come to lie upon our deathbeds, the one thing that should comfort and help and strengthen us there is the thing that helped us at the beginning.
the holy spirit shows us jesus, how much he loved us, how he sacrificed himself for us.. the holy spirit shows us how trustworthy the savior is, and faith is the result.
that, according to the apostle paul, is nothing but a spirit of bondage.
because jesus kept every commandment perfectly, our god looks at us as if  we had kept every commandment perfectly.
matt 27:51 now that the lamb of god had been sacrificed, the curtain was  torn from top to bottom because this lamb had taken away the sins of the world.
exodus 19:12 whoever touches this mountain shall be put to death.
in 1415, on the night before he was burned at the stake for preaching against the catholic church’s abuses, hus wrote, “today, you are burning a goose ["hus" means "goose" in czech]; however, a hundred years from now, you will be able to hear a swan sing, you will not burn it, you will have to listen to him.”
when jesus cried out from the cross that it was finished (john 19:30), he was  declaring that nothing more needed to be done to redeem people from sin, death,  and hell.
and that game went on for at least an hour.
in the first place, there are phases in the christian life as in the whole life.
you search the scriptures, for in them you think you have  eternal life.
“but may i not offer this plea, i mean to be better?”
“but,” says one, “no one is justified like that, till he dies.”
there he was on the maintruck; he  managed to get up there, somehow or other, but down he never could get.
(illustration of 4-month old dirk who trusts in 9 year old brother seth and  not his 3 year old sister kirsten).
now false teaching may be guilty of stating less than that message, of leaving out certain things.
the gospel is the  good news about jesus our savior and all he has done to bring us into a right  relationship with god.
let me put the matter positively.
you note, we have in our text, first of all, the redemption of christ jesus; secondly, the justification of sinners flowing from it; and then thirdly, the manner of the giving of this justification, “freely by his grace.”
likewise count yourselves also to be truly dead to sin, but alive to god through jesus christ our lord.
when worship does not focus on jesus, it is impossible for the holy spirit to create and sustain true faith in the hearts of the people because the holy spirit creates faith only by showing people the savior, jesus.
there are people who suffer from tiredness and lethargy.
it still stands as one of the worst peacetime naval disasters in history.
good works can never save, but true faith never exists without  them.
the captain called for a  speaking trumpet; he put it to his mouth, and shouted, “boy, the next  time the ship lurches, throw yourself into the sea.”
i believe they were including him as well, that they thought they were all going to be drowned.
certainly there is the past with all its sins.
i don’t know what they were playing, but i could hear  them saying over and over again.
the apostles were not sent out simply to produce results and to change people.
christ has removed our shame and guilt.
how can a just god justify guilty people?
‘all that has happened to him has happened to me.
do not think in terms of bargains and rights in the kingdom of god.
i’m not even going to give you “my opinion” of whether he was the best boxer that ever lived (because i’m probably more of a joe frazier, george foreman fan).
published on october 30, 2011 with all the effort the church has put into making halloween more “christian” (hallelujah harvests, fall festivals, etc), why haven’t we ever seen fit to simply celebrate what truly is one of the most important dates in the history of the church?
we call this teaching original sin.
he was our substitute in every way on every day of his life.
i don’t think they’re concern is excellence, or holiness, or faithfulness from god’s point of view.
when a prisoner has been taken captive, and has been made a slave by some barbarous power, it has been usual, before he could be set free, that a ransom price should be paid down.
when we serve our neighbor, we serve jesus.
read the 23rd verse, immediately preceding the text—” for all have sinned, and come short of the glory of god.”
as he besieged and attacked our lord, so does he besiege and attack all the lord’s people.
thus christians are always at war with themselves.
“if you want to see what  greatness is in the kingdom of god, just look around,” says jesus.
he knows the right amount, and he will give the right amount, and when you have responded he will withdraw it.
god gave us rules by which we were supposed to live, but we broke those rules.
they held that this rightness is attained by conforming to the law as they understood it, and keeping it.
the next day john sees jesus coming to him and says,  behold the lamb of god who takes away the sin of the world!
they often concentrate on the question of sanctification, but it does not help them because they have not understood justification.
man ceases to be regarded by divine justice as a guilty  being; the moment he believes on christ his guilt is all taken away.
now nothing separates us from the love of god that is in christ jesus our lord  – not even death.
it’s that kind of  question.
what poor ideas men have of the value of christ’s gospel, if they think they can buy it!
ultimately, we see jesus bearing the guilt and sin of the whole world on that cross and know that he understands our shame.
the truth they were so interested in was not at all applied in their lives; it was something confined to their studies.
let us get rid of this of this bargaining spirit, that if i do this then that will happen.
as a pastor stands at the foot of a hospital bed or meets with someone whose marriage is dissolving or counsels someone whose spouse has died, he often hears the questions why?
everything we should have  been, our substitute was.
if we will not be obedient to the positive lessons and instructions of god’s word, we must not be surprised if other things begin to happen to us.
the wise had banned the sale of indulgences in wittenberg, many church members traveled to purchase them.
“if you want to see what greatness is in the kingdom of god, just look around,” says jesus.
when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you?
i think we should abolish this word decision.
they talk about fighting, but i do not  see any one to fight, or else i would fight.”
yes, i do, that is the doctrine of  justification by faith.
they had seen jesus do miracles of healing and feeding.
he tells the story of a prince who was running an errand for his father one day in the local village.
come to the second principle.
you must so believe that as to be able to go further and say with holy boldness: ‘the terrors of law and of god with me can have nothing to do, my savior’s obedience and blood
“why cannot i get there?
the theology of glory posits that if we are good to god, god will be good  to us; if we are faithful to god, god will be faithful to us; if we follow god,  worship god, and obey god, god will pay us our due.
in this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while, if need be, you have been grieved by various trials, 7 that the genuineness of your faith, being much more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to praise, honor, and glory at the revelation of jesus christ
everything is of grace in the christian life from the very beginning to the very end.
galatians 3:13 13 christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, being  made a curse for us
read the 23rd verse, immediately preceding the text—” for all  have sinned, and come short of the glory of god.”
when the punishment is to be executed, forth comes  christ.
wrong doctrine always leads in some shape or form to the conclusion that faith alone is not enough.
if that’s who you are today, it won’t take you long to discover how tenuous your control of life really is.
he  could not get her off his heart.
we have broken god’s commandments.
god does not give us truth so we can “win the  argument.”
our justification means not only that our sins are forgiven and that we have been declared to be righteous by god himself, not merely that we were righteous at that moment when we believed, but permanently righteous.
but after adam and eve disobeyed god, they were afraid (gen 3:10; 2:17).
the office of pastor is an office of  the gospel.
whatever else is not done, i must do these things.
the nearer a man gets to god the greater he sees his sin.
jesus calls a child into their midst.
there are others who conceive of it as morality only..
it is one sacrifice, once and forever.
if i were to go before a judge, and he should agree that i should be committed for a year’s imprisonment, instead of some wretch who was condemned yesterday to a year’s imprisonment, i could not take his guilt.
for example, we are free to choose what to have for breakfast, in what  profession we wish to serve, whom and when to marry, etc.
and the lamb now feeds  the father’s family with word and sacraments.
frank sinatra  can no longer “do it his way,” and general macarthur “will  not be returning,” and even “elvis has learned that graceland is  not something he could create, but something that one can only receive as a  gift from the hands of a gracious god.”
and where is  god’s mercy?
the force of the massive collision of welded  steel and jagged rock split the hull of the delphy in half.
mount zion heb 12:18; 22-24 when you and i became christians, we came to mount zion, that is, we became members of the church, which is the family of god.
we don’t want to look inside ourselves for god’s favor.
the word translated temptations really means ‘trials’.
then having seen the truth the christian loves it.
rom 8:1 the center of the christian faith is that god has punished christ in our place.
then our souls and bodies will be reunited, and we will live forever in the kingdom jesus has prepared for us from the foundation of the world.
it’s also why we who are christians sometimes become discouraged.
the hill of comfort is the hill of calvary; the house of consolation is builded with the wood of the cross; the temple of heavenly cordials is founded upon the riven rock, riven by the spear which pierced its side.
because of faith,  we are justified, we enter the kingdom of god, and we enter the church.
our calling or vocation in life has been cleansed by the blood of the lamb.
the whole of the new testament and the history of the church throughout the centuries bear eloquent testimony to the fact that this is aa ‘fight of faith’, and not to have any troubles in your soul is, therefore, far from being a good sign.
mark 13:9; matt 5:10-12 (persecution) christians will be persecuted, made fun of, ostracized, or penalized in  some way.
this means a kind of insight, it means understanding, it means enlightenment.
he means the danger of having a ‘servant spirit,’ a serf-like spirit and attitude.
i have overcome the world.
with the honor of being the greatest in our society or even among our family and friends, with that honor comes power, prestige, and status….even control.
huge “roll over” waves of icy salt water threatened  to sweep the whole crew overboard.
i do not care what it is, whether prayer or anything else, in no respect must i ever argue that because i do something i am entitled to get something – never.
they have not known this feeling of constraint, this feeling of, ‘i can do no other, so help me, god’, that they must, that everything else has to be excluded, that the truth has so come to them that they must accept it.
they believe and proclaim that if only this christian point of view could be applied in politics, in industry and in every other circle all our troubles would be solved.
they are still thinking in terms of themselves; their idea still is that they have to make themselves good enough to be a christian, good enough to be accepted with christ.
romans 3:23 23 for all have sinned and come short of the glory of god, psalms 53:2,3 2 god looked down from heaven on the sons of mankind to see if any was discerning, who was seeking god.
ah, our faith had not developed the element of trust, and god so deals with us in this life as to bring us to trust him in the dark..
as we grow older, our resilience and our vigor tend to go..slowing down and a slackening in our powers.
the most difficult thing in life is to order your own life and to manage it.
the pomp of a whole universe, the  royalty of entire creation, cherubim and seraphim and all powers create, did  swell the show; and god himself, the everlasting one, crowned all, when he  pressed his son to his bosom, and said, “well done, well done; thou hast  finished the work which i gave thee to do.
false teaching is always ‘christ plus’ something, and you must have this essential addition.
well, jesus is clear, a child who trusts dependently on him has more going for them than an adult who trusts in themselves because they are dependent on the one who eternally loves them and completely provides for them.
it doesn’t take long for us, even when  we’re young, to start asking those questions, does it?
peter  speaks up on behalf of the group, as if he’s already the one in charge.
nevertheless, unless we believe what the scriptures tell us about jesus, his life and work will be of no benefit to us.
it is with you now as with that boy—your position is one of imminent peril in itself, and your slighting the father’s counsel is a matter of more terrible alarm, it makes peril more perilous.
there is a sense in which the one thing that these people who are in this condition must not do is to pray to be delivered from it!
christians live a  lifelong struggle with sin.
in truth, it  was a goodly ransom.
#78-52 presented on the lutheran hour on september 4, 2011 by rev. gregory seltz, speaker of the lutheran hour matthew 18:1-4 grace and peace to you in jesus’ name, amen.
faith is something like this.
the rebellion of humanity, the sinful condition of humanity in which we find  ourselves today, is not merely about whether we do sinful things.
it is in the daily life of a baptized that god shows love to the family and to the world.
it begins with a knowledge of the lord – not a feeling, not an act of the will, but a knowledge of this blessed person.
we have seen his miracles, he turned water to wine, he can heal the blind and the lame, he can even raise the dead, is it likely that he is going to allow us and himself to be drowned in this way?
there are others whose sole interest in the gospel is their interest in theology and doctrine, in great problems, arguments and discussions.
and  we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the father, full of  grace and of truth.
in one semse, a major theme of the bible and of christianity is our conduct  as human beings.
god is certainly a rewarder of them that diligently seek him.
now, we, like the boy, are in a position of extra-ordinary danger, by nature, which neither you nor i can possibly escape of ourselves.
self says that we are important.
faith is an activity.
gal 3:14 god provides for all his people’s needs.
the queen may pardon him, but she cannot justify him.
in other words if i really believe that the bible is more important to me than the daily newspaper, i must read my bible before i read the newspaper.
it is essential that we know and believe that jesus died on the cross, but his  death will not help us one whit unless we know that jesus died on a cross for  our sins, that his death earned our forgiveness so we can live forever with him  and all who are his.
he slept there a portion of three days in his tomb.
joshua comes in, clothed  in filthy garments; those filthy garments representing his sins.
(heb 12:6) for whom the lord loveth he chasteneth, sometimes god does this to us to prepare us for something..when god has a particularly great task for a man to perform, he generally does try him.
st paul touches on the great paradox that joy and trouble go hand in hand  in the life of the christian.
do you believe from the standpoint of salvation and justification with god that all our customary distinction are abolished at a stroke and that what determines whether we are sinners or not is not what we have done, but our relationship to god?
two thieves were with him there;  not righteous men, lest any should have said that the death of those two  righteous men helped the saviour.
you and i can never doubt while we look at him and are clear about him.
they say something like this: ‘well, i have lost that something which i had..
how essential it is that we should give ourselves to a diligent reading of the scriptures and of books on the scriptures and on the doctrines of the faith.
their minds were very much engaged; this was their intellectual hobby and interest.
in these debates, luther was maneuvered into proclaiming publicly that he had questions about the infallibility of church councils and also that he thought that it was possible that the pope could err.
1cor 7:21-24 frequently, we fail in our struggle with temptation.
but i am going a step further.
the message about jesus – who he is, what he has done for us – is the message that brings us to faith in god.
we must be on guard that worship does not degenerate into moralistic  sermons dominated by law or songs that make no mention of jesus’ work of  salvation.
so stop looking at what you have not done and the years you have missed and realize that in his kingdom it is his grace alone that matters.
they do not seem to realize fully what our lord did on the cross on calvary’s hill.
when he put it to his own lips, it was so bitter, he well nigh spurned it—”let this cup pass from me.”
and so luther was granted a reprieve of 24 hours to return to his room to contemplate the seriousness of this occasion.
looking through the window of his  carriage, he saw a beautiful young peasant girl walking along the street.
you need him all the time.
form of doctrine or standard of teaching..
nothing matters in the kingdom but the grace of god.
nay: but by the law of faith.
they were laid upon the shoulders of christ, and they are gone.
his own son to take our place and do what we were unable to do.
the  devil tries to seduce us away from mount calvary and send us back to mount  sinai.
and when peter was down out of the ship, he walked on the water, to go to jesus.
through this office, god causes his church to grow.
there were those questions, “am i the  best?
not watching the clock, not assessing the amount of work, not keeping a record in a book, but forgetting everything except the glory of god, the privilege of being called to work for him at all, the privilege of being a christian, remembering only the grace that has ever looked upon us and removed us from darkness to light.
for truly i say to you, till the heaven and the earth pass away, not one jot or one tittle shall in any way pass from the law until all is fulfilled.
this the holy  spirit works by faith, and therefore without coercion a man is willing and  desirous to do good to everyone, to serve everyone, to suffer everything for  the love of god and to his glory, who has been so gracious to him.
these things are done to us deliberately by god as a part of the process of sanctification.
what is the doctrine?
it is impossible, it would be inconsistent with the character of god.’
their confidence grows as they take up the challenges of life  under a parent’s encouraging and resourcing eye.
he moved into the village dressed only as a peasant.
they do this for one purpose: that the  flock of christ may know the shepherd, that sinners may know the savior.
the hill of comfort is the hill of calvary; the house of consolation is  builded with the wood of the cross; the temple of heavenly cordials is founded  upon the riven rock, riven by the spear which pierced its side.
the spirit that enabled jesus will enable us.
for in it the righteousness of god is revealed from faith to faith, as it is written,”the just shall live by faith.”
luther had spent months preaching against the sale of indulgences, and compiling his theses.
apart from jesus there is no hope, no forgiveness,  no eternal life.
this tendency of mourning, and always mourning and never rejoicing..
—- chapter 4 mind, heart and will romans 6:17 17
that is the gospel, all the ‘infinities and immensities’ of this epistle.
therefore, this office constantly points to jesus, his person and his work, so faith in the son of god may be created and the church expanded.
the christian is never meant to be carried away by his feelings, whatever they are – never.
one says, “i will go and study the bible, and believe right doctrine; and i have no doubt that by believing right doctrine i shall be saved.”
but not so our  saviour: once for all he gave himself a sacrifice; at once he counted down the  price, and said, “it is finished,” leaving nothing for him to do,  nor for us to accomplish.
—- chapter 15 discipline (2 peter 1:5)
without warning, about half way on their training mission, a thick blanket of fog descended on the ships.
i must not bring with me those old ideas, those old moods and concepts of thought’.
society does its best tto abbreviate, adumbrate, and eliminate god’s law.
“punish me,” he says; “i have put my righteousness on that man, and i have taken that man’s sins on me.
will christ take my black sins, and am i to take his white robes?
now god points us to another mountain, a mountain on which we can meet him and live.
and he has made you alive, who were once dead in  trespasses and sins, eph 2:4-6 believers are alive.
we don’t want to trust our own lives or works for comfort.
then the  gospel gives life to sinners who were “dead in the trespasses and  sins” (eph 2:1).
the way whereby god saves a sinner is not, as some say, by passing over the penalty.
he sees its glorious truth, it moves his heart in the same way, and it movess his will.
i do not care what the circumstances may be, the christian should never be agitated, the christian should never be beside himself like this, the christian should never be at his wit’s end, the christian should never be in a condition in which he has lost control of himself.
i mention myself as the representative of you all.
he is if he sees just, righteous, innocent, holy people.
comment chapter 1 general consideration psalms 42:5 5 why are you cast down, o my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me?
paul never said, woe to me if i do not preach the law.
but again he stood upright: “nevertheless, not my will,  but thine be done.”
we have laid our hands on god’s law and we have broken it.
not only  do i knock ‘em out, i pick the round.
they tend to be afraid in a wrong way of the power of the devil.
they have been placed upon him and god has dealt with them and punished them there, and therefore because he has punished our sins in christ, in his body upon the cross, he can justly forgive us.
take a moment to thank god for his saints and their convictions.
well, for many of us, that bravado attracts us because we hope that if we can glean merely a nugget of wisdom from folks like them, if we can mimic their successful actions, maybe, just maybe we can have control of our lives just like them.
apart from the birth, life, suffering, death, and resurrection of jesus,  christianity is neither unique nor particularly helpful to sinners living under  the law of a righteous and powerful god.
the second danger is the exact opposite, namely, the danger of adding to the truth..
these “protesters” and their movement, protestantism, gained steam and began refocusing the good news about jesus on grace and faith and god’s sovereign plan for the ages.
and the lamb now feeds the father’s family with word and sacraments.
at the center of the pastoral ministry is christ, who brings grace, forgiveness, salvation, and life.
pastors proclaim that grace not only covers every sin, grace is universal, which means it covers every sinner.
as far as luther is concerned, the feeding of the flock and the growth of  the church occurs only when the word is preached.
children, from the very start, are dependent on their parents for  food and protection.
how could he develop a  relationship with her?
don’t shuffle through your christian life, walk through it as you should do with vigor.
what poor ideas men have of the value of christ’s gospel, if they think  they can buy it!
god does not give man a free pardon under his own  sign-manual, and then afterwards retract it and punish man: that be far from  god so to do.
death is not the snuffing  out of the human being.
but the glory of the pastoral ministry is not in preaching god’s law, which condemns.
on the contrary, everything we learn in the bible about our behavior  reveals that we never will and never can measure up to the requirements of  god’s law.
martin luther: “may every single sermon be forever damned which persuades a person to find security and trust in or through anything whatever except the pure mercy of god, which is christ.”
we see him whipped and crowned with thorns, suffering great pain on the cross, and finally dying.
false teaching always emphasizes some one thing in particular and gives great prominence to it.
i earnestly warn you.
to be the greatest on these terms is to foolishly assert that you can go it  alone; to be dependent only on what you can do, what you can say, what you can  make happen with the resources under your control.
in this  sense christians are unique in their relationship to god.
it is perfectly right, everything he said was right, but he did not go far enough.
there is a right fear of god..but there is also a wrong fear of god and that is a craven fear, ‘a fear that hath torment’.
the mission of the church is to proclaim this beautiful message throughout the world.
with sin, guilt, and shame gone, we now can stand before god, righteous and pure.
matt 25:34 without the treasures of god’s grace, zion dies.
that is faith when the poor sinner lets go his hold, drops down, and so is saved; and the very thing which looks as if it would destroy him, is the means of his being saved.
yes, poor  soul, if thou desirest it; if god has made thee willing, if thou dost confess  thy sins, christ is willing to take thy rags, and give thee his righteousness,  to be thine for ever.
jesus came to make us right with god, which means he came to justify us  before god.
the first is this: whatever you may feel about it don not consider the suggestion that comes to you from all directions..that you should give up, or give way, or give in.
luther’s frustration with this practice led him to write the 95 theses, which were quickly snapped up, translated from latin into german and distributed widely.
but he wanted this girl to love him from the heart, willingly.
there is only one way whereby that prisoner can be justified; that is, he must be found not guilty; and if he is found not guilty, then he is justified—that is, he is proved to be a just man.
but i do not quite understand you; i am something like poor tiff, in that remarkable book ‘dred.’
if you wish to define greatness, just look at this jesus, who he is and what he has done for you.
for pastors, this means that when they preach about jesus they are to  preach not only that he is the son of god but also that he is the son of god  who came to forgive.
the importance  of jesus’ resurrection cannot be overestimated.
we do not realize the danger of drifting and put a stand against it.
for if it were not for unbelief even the devil could do nothing.
faith certainly includes the understanding of various facts explained in  scripture, but faith is more than just understanding.
we can thank jesus for grace that is not cheap but precious, the grace that  opens the gates of heaven and places us on mount zion.
it involves our relationship to our father through the work of his son.
it is not an office  meant to bring people to sinai to encourage them to live there, to gain their  hope there, and to stand before god there.
the best livery for a beggar is rags, and the best livery for a sinner to  go to christ in, is for him to go just as he is, with nothing but sin about  him.
“well, but are we not to do  good works?”
the error of justification by works is in trusting to the discipline of your own works to save your soul; but the opposite to trusting your works is not to do nothing; it is to do everything but not to put your trust in any of it.
i am suggesting that they are what i would call miserable christians, simply because they have not understood the way of salvation, and for that reason all their beliefs and efforts have been more or less useless.
and isn’t that what life is all about?
put a mitre on his head; clothe him in royal  raiment; make him rich and fair; that is justification.
it tends to produce a wrong fear of god.
i am a better man than those dissenters.
the one who trusts or the one who is trusted?
it will provide work and activity, it will be a new interest’.
do they really want to know if jesus is proud of them?
other religions present a god who punishes all those who break his rules and promises salvation only to those who keep all the rules.
when we live as christians, we bear a cross as jesus did.
they are involved  in accidents, they suffered pain, financial difficulty, failed marriages,  dysfunctional families, disobedient and rebellious children, abusive spouses,  apathetic parents.
it is because we listen to the devil instead of listening to god that we go down before him and fall before his attacks.
as  paul writes: “if god is for us, who can be against us?”
as our substitute, jesus kept the law perfectly for us, yet he was punished  for the sins of the world, taking all our guilt on himself and dying the death  we deserved for the wrongs we had done.
‘the righteousness of god in jesus christ’ means that god sent him into the world in order that he might honor the law and so men might be forgiven.
before his fight with britain’s henry cooper, he said, “i’m not only the greatest.
god’s law, when it’s taken seriously, shames and embarrasses us; it makes us turn away in fear.
they have not fully grasped the doctrine.
but how can we be justified and declared innocent because of what jessus has done?
after all, our substitute did it for us.
i’m the boldest, the prettiest, the most superior, the most scientific, most skillfulest fighter in the ring today.”
god gives away his  justification freely; if you bring anything to pay for it, he will throw it in  your face, and will not give his justification to you.
by showing  us jesus, god brings us to faith in him, and with faith comes life.
no longer are we surprised at things, as we were at the beginning, because we are familiar with them and know about them.
when we see how greatly god has loved us, and truly believe that his love is for us, we cannot help but love god in return.
the whole of life must come under its influence because it is all-inclusive; the gospel is meant to control and govern everything in our lives.
the matter would deal with itself immediately.
that’s one reason that christians joyfully receive the title, “children of god.”
to say that jesus came to justify us is to say that the goal of his life and work was that we might stand before god as righteous, acquitted of all sin and guilt.
in 1520 a papal encyclical was issued which condemned martin luther as a heretic.
you will be a long while going up that treadmill, before you get an inch higher.
king’s ransoms have sometimes been paid part at  once, and part in dues afterwards, to run through years.
in response to this tragic message of our inability to please him, god reveals to us his love in the person of his son.
false teaching can make people very happy..
faith expresses itslef in love.
and he shall take  away from all the earth the rebuke of his people.
how shall we that are dead unto sin live any longer therein?comment chapter 6 vain regrets 1 corinthians 15:8-10 8
but the message of the gospel is that jesus took care of the required  holiness of mount sinai and took care of god’s wrath against sin by  taking on himself the punishment of death on mount calvary.
when a prisoner has been taken captive, and has been made a slave by  some barbarous power, it has been usual, before he could be set free, that a  ransom price should be paid down.
for they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure; but he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holiness.
the kind of life we live flows from the faith that lives in our hearts.
paradoxical, but it is not contradictory.
there is a definite order about this verse..
huge “roll over” waves of icy salt water threatened to sweep the whole crew overboard.
once he seemed to stagger under it: “father, if it be possible.”
john 17:4; heb 4:15; john 15:10 we were supposed to be punished for our sins, for breaking god’s  rules and commandments, but god sent a substitute for that too.
gold perishes but faith does not.
a prisoner is brought to the bar of justice to be tried.
peter speaks up on behalf of the group, as if he’s already the one in charge.
this agitation and alarm always carries with it a lack of implicit trust and confidence in him.
as you celebrate today, use this date as a teaching moment in your family.
as many of us as know ourselves to be sinners may have christ for asking for him.
first, jesus has done absolutely everything necessary for our salvation.
romans 3:23 23 for all have sinned and come short of the glory of god, psalms 53:2,3 2 god looked down from heaven on the sons of mankind to  see if any was discerning, who was seeking god.
in other words, the father looks on his son as if he were all sinners and the father looks on us sinners as if we were his son.
he was not trying to create a public furor by any means, but within a fortnight, these theses had spread through the country like wildfire.
for through the word and the sacraments, as through instruments, the holy spirit is given, and the holy spirit produces faith, where and when it pleases god, in those who hear the gospel.
can you imagine what is going on up yonder?
they’re hoping that jesus will pick out the greatest ones (of course, hoping that he picks them), so that they can finally get the status and the influence they deserve.
will god accept the ransom, or will he not?
jesus is at the center of all that is truly christian.
there is a real danger in having a purely emotional experience only.
they have assumed that they are right about the first things, but they never have been right about their justification, and it is just here that the devil causes confusion.
and she shall bear a son, and you shall call his name jesus: for he shall save his people from their sins.
only god’s love for us in christ gives us the christian life.
rather, they go through death into the presence of their victorious savior.
it is the doctrine of holy writ, that none can condemn whom god justifies, and that none can accuse those for whom christ hath died; for they are totally free from sin.
it is called a “theology of glory,” which may also be called the believers’ prosperity.
‘believe on the lord jesus christ and thou shalt be saved.’
all three mountains help answer the question of what god sees when he looks at you and me.
it takes bravado to even think that you are that person, doesn’t it?
some think that it is merely a message of forgiveness.
and besides —to use a paradox—if you were to get  better, you would be all the worse; for the worse you are, the better to come  to christ.
“venture on him, venture wholly; let no other trust intrude.”
as members of the church, we enter an awesome family fellowship with thousand of angels, with archangels, and with all those family members now living in the heavenly jerusalem who are one with earthly jerusalem.
so that, as one of the prophets has it, god sees no sin in jacob nor iniquity in israel.
now  he gives everything that is his to us: his life of perfection, his conquest of  sin and temptation, his death that pays for all guilt, his resurrection and  life.
the law is fully satisfied.
copyright 2011, lutheran hour ministries lutheran hour ministries is an auxiliary of the lutheran  church—missouri synod | lutheran church—canada http://www.lutheranhour.org/sermon.asp?articleid=0018186a&mode=print justification by grace - charles spurgeon filed under:  uncategorized — leave a comment august 21, 2011 a sermon delivered on sabbath morning, april 5, 1857, by the rev.
and note, again, it was accepted.
gen 6:5 his heart was only evil continually 1kings 8:46 there is no one who does not sin.
the gospel of jesus christ as announced and taught in the nt claims nothing less than that it comes with the authority of the lord jesus christ himself who gave it to these men who, in turn, preached it and caused it to be written.
so they ask jesus, a very modern question “who is the  greatest?”
never – ‘no man shall pluck them out of my hands’.
god has set him forth as a propitiation.
if he gives you the grace to make you believe, he will give you the grace to live a holy life afterwards.
apart from christ, there is no such thing as a goood work in god’s  eyes.
the whole of the tremendous debt was put  upon his shoulders; the whole weight of the sins of all his people was placed  upon him.
we must look to him, we must seek his aid, we must rely upon him.
for the lord has spoken.
the smoke cannot be smelled nor does it  irritate the eyes.
those who would argue and almost fight about particular doctrines, but they were often hard men to approach.
must you hear the dreadful threat—”he that believeth not shall be damned?”
it is therefore as impossible to separate works from faith as it is to separate heat and light from fire.”
ultimately, jesus’ love and the beautiful message of the savior go out into the community, into the world, through our pastor and the family of god.
the first thing he does is to lay down a great principle, which is that we must understand why these things happen to us.
as you may have guessed, he  gave up his kingly robe and symbols of power and prestige.
phil 1:29; john 16:33; acts 14:22 the fact that god permits these things and that he often appears to be quite unconcerned about it all really constitutes what i am describing as the trial of faith.
their knowledge of the truth is defective.
we like to see results and we like it to appear in the papers and so on – self has come in and self is a terrible master.
he refused to keep silent, however, and in 1521 pope leo x formally excommunicated luther from the catholic church.
you must say to yourself: ‘whatever happens i am going on’.
he goes on with that work – ‘he that hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of jesus christ’.
everything we should have been, our substitute was.
“sola scriptura” (scripture alone) became the battlecry of the reformation.
it is through faith alone that we receive this righteousness of christ so  god looks on us as righteous and just.
he came to give eternal life.
in fact it is a delusion and it is not true.
hab 2:4; rom 1:17; eph 2:8; 1 john 5: 11-12 luther said in the third article: i believe that i cannot by my own reason or strength believe in jesus  christ, my lord, or come to him; but the holy spirit has called me by the  gospel, enlightened me with his gifts, sanctified and kept me in the true  faith..
we tend to confine salvation to one thing, namely to forgiveness, but we have to apply the principle throughout the christian life.
what makes one a christian is that one is given the gift of faith.
i have sometimes described this as the ‘penny in the slot’ idea of christianity.
but  christianity teaches that god loved the people of this world so much that he  did not wish to punish us for our sinful thoughts, words, and acts.
there are still others who are interested in it simply as something good and beautiful.
ah, will not mercy’s tender cry  persuade you?—”he that believeth shall be saved.”
the finest love comes from jesus and his sacrifices for us on the cross.
let me just endeavour to show you some qualities of the redemption that is  in christ jesus.
with these  words, jesus proclaims that the entire revelation of god given to us in the  holy scriptures was given so we might know him.
therefore whoever  humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.”
when christ redeemed his people, he did it thoroughly; he did not leave a single debt unpaid, nor yet one farthing for them to settle afterwards.
that is one thing to which they constantly hark back.
all the sins were dealt with there finally and completely, everything.
rev 1:17-18 because jesus lives, the final victory over sin, over death, and over hell  belongs to every christian.
what have you to do, but to believe this and trust in him?
it is christ, christ,  christ—christ only.
all the sins you may ever commit have been dealt with there, so when you go to him it is ‘the blood of jesus christ his son’ that is going to cleanse you.
the slave attitude generally arises from the tendency to turn the christian life and the living of the christian life into a new law, into a higher law.
we are now free to serve him out of  love.
it is  therefore as impossible to separate works from faith as it is to separate heat  and light from fire.”
you do not believe what he tells you and that is your real sin.
human beings always seem to worry about who is the greatest for the wrong reasons.
take that first step and you will find that immediately you will begin to experience a joy and a release that you have never known in your life before.
how could he cast himself down into it?
the christian faith stands or falls with the resurrection of jesus.
in the resurrection god has passed  sentence on satan and on all the evil that nailed christ on the cross.
mount sinai on mount sinai, god gave moses the ten commandments.
then pharaoh let the people go, and the israelites began their exodus from egypt.
the secret of a happy christian life is to realize that it is all of grace and to rejoice in that fact.
there are not two churches, there is one.
that is always wrong in a christian.
the kind of person who thinks that once you believe on the lord jesus christ all your problems are left behind and that the rest of the story will be ‘they all lived happily ever after’ is certain sooner or later to suffer from this spiritual depression.
god will not have your rusty farthings to buy heaven with.
take away the  filthy garments; that is pardon.
yes, sir, you are to have it for nothing, or else not at all;  it is “freely.”
our object in living the christian life is not simply to attain a certain standard, but is rather to please god because he is our father..we cry abba, father.
if you judge only in terms of experience and results you will find that every cult and heresy the world or the church has ever known will be able to justify itself.
we shall never be tried and tested except it be for our good, and as we respond to the teaching, god will withdraw the test.
we are to realize that the spirit of god is in us.
do you realize that you are partakers of the divine nature?
they do believe in his sacrificial, toning death, but they do not work out its implications.
no; the penalty has been all paid.
they were entirely wrong with regard to the whole question of the law, and the main problem was to show them the right view of it.
comment “the greatest!!”
you cannot get any better, try as long as  you please.
he drank it all, he endured all, he suffered all; so that now for ever there are no flames of hell for them, no racks of torment; they have no eternal woes; christ hath suffered all they ought to have suffered, and they must, they shall go free.
it is doctrine first, it is the standard of teaching first, it is the message of the gospel first.
because all of us are sinful and break god’s commands each day, we  deserve nothing but god’s punishment for what we think, say, and do.
in the sixteenth century, the church had to defend the truth of god’s word against arminius, who taught that human beings cooperate in their conversion.
faith is a refusal to panic, come what may.
they do not control their appetites, their lusts, their passions, their desires; they eat too much, or drink too much, or even sleep too much.
because of jesus’ life, death, and resurrection, god forgives us and promises the gift of eternal life in heaven to everyone who believes in his son.
when we look to jesus, we see temptation in the wilderness and know that he  does not come to intimidate us with threats of punishment for sin and failure.
but instead he dropped his chin on his chest and muttered something that nobody could understand, so they asked him to speak up.
christians must endure humiliation, shame, embarrassment,  temptations that never seem to end, even persecution.
our lord understands real humaan beings: we are sinners and saints at the same time (rom 7:19ff).
but st paul says, romans 3:20 20 because by the works of the law none of all flesh will be justified in his sight; for through the law is the knowledge of sin.
when the children of israel had lived in egypt for 430 years, god sent his  prophet moses to tell pharaoh to let the israelites go..
there is no means among men of justifying a man of an accusation which is laid against him, except by his being proved not guilty.
wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a little while, if need be, ye have been put to grief in manifold trials, that the proof of your faith, being more precious than gold that perisheth though it is proved by fire, may be found unto praise and glory and honor at the revelation of jesus christ: peter is describing people who at one and the same time are greatly rejoicing and yet are in heaviness.
without the savior, we could not and would not love god.
meanwhile, god prepared the israelites for this plague by instructing them to kill a lamb, eat it, and spread its blood on the doorposts and lintels of their homes.
“being justified freely by his grace, through the redemption that is  in christ jesus.
this is what happens when god’s commandments peel away the thin, flase veneer of human righteousness to reveal the guilt and shame that lie beneath.
the essential object of chastisement is to train and to develop the child so as to produce a grown person.
i will go on..just shuffling down the road..’
romans 3:23 all have sinned psalm 51:5 we are sinful from birth.
through faith in jesus, we have  become the temple of the holy spirit (1cor 6:19).
the uss delphy was  captained by lieutenant commander donald t. hunter, an experienced navigator  and an instructor of the naval academy.
their wisdom comes as they watch their parents and mimic  what they see.
your prayer may well be an expression of unbelief at that point.
but that is not the position, for the holy spirit dwells within you.
those are the terms used in the nt aand the church is certain to produce these spiritual monstrosities when she fails to put that first.
he said, “may i have 24 hours to think about it.”
he has conquered death for us.
justification, you know, is a forensic term; it is employed always in a legal  sense.
—- chapter 10 where is your faith?
on the other hand, because of the biblical teaching of original sin, we do  not believe that human beings have a free will in spiritual matters.
but mark thee, neither by repentance, nor by leaving off thy sin, can save thee.
it is for jesus’ sake that the father loves us, and it is because of what jesus has done that we love the father.
when we do tasks god gives us to do, our actions show love for god  and glorify him.
they think of the christian life as great task which they have to take up and to which now they are to apply themselves.
if god’s anger has been extinguished, then  all penalty for sin, all punishment, also is eradicated.
such selfish, self-focus literally  disconnects us from the one who created and redeemed us to live life abundantly  in his name.
the figure of redemption is very simple, and has been very frequently used in scripture.
can any earthly tribunal do that?
it may describe the death of christ as being nothing but a marvelous exhibition of love.
who has the power to do as he or she pleases?”
certain teachers had gone around to churches there and said, in effect: ‘yes, we believe the gospel and we agree with paul’s teaching.
yes, not the independently powerful, or the personally suave, or  debonair?
we must be clear about justification.
1cor  15:17-19 those who den the resurrection of jesus and who would reduce christianity  to a set of moral principles have little to do with the apostle paul, who  declares..
steve adler | discipleship pastor ——– http://thefellowshiprr.org/blog/happy-reformation-day/comment on october 31, 1517, martin luther tacked up 95 theses on the church door at wittenberg.
fastened in with a seal upon a giant stone, he sleeps still in his grave; not yet has the acceptance been given from god; the angels have not yet come from heaven to say, “the deed is done, god has accepted thy sacrifice.”
so strong faith is to know them.
it means that you will have to control every single aspect of your life.
from the discussions at wittenberg, the disputations began to accelerate and escalate.
rest here for ever, mine accepted one.”
and now, let me further go on to explain some of the characteristics of  this justification.
it is that we must realize the truth concerning the doctrine of the holy spirit and the indwelling of the holy spirit in the christian.
having taken the first step, having pulled yourself up, you remind yourself of what you believe and what you know.
without the gospel, the church cannot survive.
while you are sitting down and bemoaning the past and regretting all the things you have not done, you are crippling yourself and preventing yourself from working in the present.
this isn’t that kind of discussion.
that you must accept the faith and having done that all the rest will happen to you.. such people do not realize that faith needs to be supplemented by virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, godliness, brotherly kindness and charity.
‘faith without works is dead’.
there grace hath dug a fountain, which ever gusheth with waters pure as crystal, each drop capable of alleviating the woes and the agonies of mankind.
he himself has said it—”as the father loved me, so have i loved you.”
john 3:3; 2 cor 5:19 those who do not believe this message of grace receive none of its  blessings.
they feel that they have had an emotional release; they have passed through an emotional crisis.
it can satisfy man’s mind completely, it can move his heart entirely, and it can lead wholehearted obedience in the realm of the will.
the captain tried in vain to steer the  vessel to safety, but to no avail.
god accepts this righteousness of christ, this perfect righteousness face to face with the law which he honored in every respect.
others again are in this one-sided position because they have responded to an appeal in a meeting.
if i were to preach justification which  would consist in whippings and torture, there are very few here who would not  whip themselves, and that severely too.
they had  been created in god’s image, holy and pure.
we cannot do that in our courts.
the office of the ministry itself is christocentric, that is, christ is at the center.
in truth, it was a goodly ransom.
the holy spirit within us reminds us of our destiny.
by the time luther died, of natural causes, in 1546, his revolutionary beliefs had formed the basis for the protestant reformation, which would over the next three centuries revolutionize western civilization.
the question they, like we, often raise, is, “who is in charge here?
rom 10:9; 1cor 15:14-15, 20, 57.
i must try the best i can to make justification plain and simple,  even to the comprehension of a child.
the moment the man believes in christ, he ceases to be  guilty in god’s esteem; but what is more, he becomes righteous, he  becomes meritorious; for, in the moment when christ takes his sins he takes  christ’s righteousness; so that, when god looks upon the sinner who but  an hour ago was dead in sins, he looks upon him with as much love and affection  as he ever looked upon his son.
god does not give man a free pardon under his own sign-manual, and then afterwards retract it and punish man: that be far from god so to do.
if you have ever believed on the lord jesus christ, you must, in some shape or form, have met with and dealt with the difficulties or you would not have arrived at faith.
unfortunately, in many churches preachers do not seem to understand the nature of their own office.
he has done everything necessary for our salvation.
it then moves the heart and finally the man yields his will.
it also means  that we now live to the glory of god.
jesus brings truth for the sake of grace, that is, for the sake of god’s undeserved kindness.
on all saints day, the indulgence business would be booming as people came from all over to pay to see relics (items the catholic church collected and charged people to see) such as a veil sprinkled with the blood of christ, a twig of moses’ burning bush, or a piece of bread from the last supper.
standing on sinai, we will never appear before our god as holy, pure, and  just.
we are holy by faith, but our thoughts, words, and deeds are immersed in  sin.
“oops, jesus, what we meant to ask is, ‘who is the greatest in your kingdom.’
all of us have touched this mountain.
it is the central teaching of  the christian faith.
are we going to play the games i want to play, with  my rules or yours?”
as soon as a repenting sinner is justified, remember, he is  justified for all his sins.
we have died with christ, have been buried with christ, have risen with christ, are seated in the heavenly places in christ and with christ.
they are equally afraid of the sin which is within themselves.
god gives to us the righteousness of christ.
he said, “i have had a claim upon thee to this hour; that claim is paid now; go thy way.”
how can a good god declare bad people to be good?
people need to be loved ..
god gives no one his spirit or grace except through or with the external  word.
“i shall go to heaven,” you say; “do not i keep good  friday and christmas-day?
one day they will have to face some crisis and to see things through.
jesus points  to the child because the child points straight back to him.
we need a savior no less today than the day on which we were baptized.
thus almost every sin that god forbids – is justified today by those  who wish to commit it.
that is not the way to get to the stars.
the one thing satan desires to do is to ruin and destroy the work of god; and there is no work of god which he is more anxious to destroy than the work of grace in and through our lord and savior jesus christ.
god looks at us and declares us to be just because of what jesus  has done.
then god sent in a substitute.
now,  for some people, ali was the greatest heavyweight boxer who ever lived.
thus the angel of death passed over the homes protected by the blood of a  lamb but took the firstborn of all the families of egypt.
i know very good many evangelical christian people, who seem to be thinking like that.
when we look to jesus, we see a baby and know that he does not come to  frighten us but to draw us to himself in love.
as soon as a sinner takes christ’s place, and christ takes the sinner’s place, there is no fear of a second change.
mohammed ali can no longer “float like a butterfly or sting like a bee.”
without him we can do nothing.
well, so some may think; but let me say to you, it is a  doctrine professed by all protestant churches, though they may not preach it.
why do we elevate their status to such heights when it becomes apparent, as it always does, that our heroes have feet of clay?
but not so our saviour: once for all he gave himself a sacrifice; at once he counted down the price, and said, “it is finished,” leaving nothing for him to do, nor for us to accomplish.
said he “that would not buy enough for your foot to stand on in heaven; for the streets are made of gold there, and therefore of what value can your gold be, it would be accounted nothing of, when the very streets are paved with it?”
let me explain it then.
and such confidence and knowledge of divine grace makes us  joyous, mettlesome, and merry toward god and all creatures.
if you are all unholy come to christ; if you feel your sin, and  renounce it, come to christ; though you have been the most debased and  abandoned soul, come to christ; if you feel yourself to have nothing about you  that can recommend you, come to christ.
in response to this tragic message of our inability to please him, god  reveals to us his love in the person of his son.
god has said that he will punish sin, and that the punishment of sin is death and banishment from the face of god.
if christ has once paid the debt, the debt  is paid, and it will never be asked for again; if you are pardoned, you are  pardoned once for ever.
the first thing the apostle lays down is the question of authority.
the holy spirit uses the message of the gospel to bring us to faith, and this is the only way people are brought to faith, the only way the church is created.
martin luther taught that christ is our righteousness.
thus the crosses god sends us, as well as the joys, are meant to bless the entire family of god.
luther called this  the “blessed exchange” that occurs between christ and the sinner.
during a 1923 training exercise, a naval destroyer called the uss delphy  led a flotilla of seven vessels down the california coast.
o my beloved, think what a  grand sight it must have been when christ ascended into glory; what a noble  certificate it must have been of his father’s acceptance of him!
no; it  remained for the ransom of christ to effect that which is an impossibility to  any tribunal upon earth.
i think they were sure that they had attached themselves to the next big  thing.
they have heard it preached that christ died for our sins and they say that they believe that; but they have never really known its absolute necessity for themselves.
we are brought into this marvelous life, this spiritual condition by the grace of god.
but the glory of the pastoral ministry is  not in preaching god’s law, which condemns.
“well, but how is it to be obtained?” says one “must i be a holy man for many years, and then get it?”
and luther’s motivation, i believe, is summed up in thesis 62, “the true treasure of the church is the holy gospel of the glory and the grace of god.”
yea, and all that would live godly in christ jesus shall suffer persecution.
now, what i do want to talk to you about, though, is his bravado, his  braggadociousness.
if you look at your past and are depressed, it means that you are listening to the devil.
and let us not be weary in well-doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not.
pass away, not one jot or one tittle shall in any way pass from the law until  all is fulfilled.
matt 20:1-16 to be miserable in the present because of some failure in the past is a ssheer waste of time and energy.
that we are justified by grace alone, through faith alone – not through the catholic church and her indulgences.
this has to be dealt with.
(rom 8:17a) and if children, then heirs; heirs of god, and joint-heirs with christ (rom 8:38-39)
you can be no more saved by believing right doctrine than you can by doing right actions.
revelation 1:8 8 i am the alpha and omega, the beginning and the ending, says the lord, who is and who was and who is to come, the almighty.
and many of luther’s theses were aimed directly at the sale of indulgences.
there is a very definite plan and purpose for the whole of my life, god has looked upon me, god has adopted me and put me into his family.
and where is god’s mercy?
as we have said before, so say i now again, if any man preacheth unto you any gospel other than that which ye received, let him be anathema.
the force of the massive collision of welded steel and jagged rock split the hull of the delphy in half.
yes, says the  spirit, they shall rest from their labors, and their works follow them.
for this is the will of god, even your sanctification god’s great concern for us primarily is not our happiness but our holiness.
“but, o sir, i have been praying, and i do not think god will forgive me,  unless i do something to deserve it.”
as the weather started to close in, they had trouble even getting him  into the basket.
we need a  savior no less today than the day on which we were baptized.
but though we, or an angel from heaven, should preach unto you any gospel other than that which we preached unto you, let him be anathema.
on this day in 1517, the priest and scholar martin luther approaches the door of the castle church in wittenberg, germany, and nails a piece of paper to it containing the 95 revolutionary opinions that would begin the protestant reformation.
the value of even the weakest or smallest faith ..
the answer is that they did not believe it because they did not see the need of it.
our soul will be with our lord in paradise while our body lies in the grave, awaiting the day in resurrection and the return of our lord.
the law is not weak, it is the man who has to carry it out who is weak.
can you imagine what is going on up  yonder?
you cannot believe in christ, unless you  renounce every fault, and resolve to serve him with full purpose of heart.
a christian should never, like the worldly person, be depressed, agitated, alarmed, frantic, not knowing what to do.
by showing us jesus, god brings us to faith in him, and with faith comes life.
man ceases to be regarded by divine justice as a guilty being; the moment he believes on christ his guilt is all taken away.
there is another calling given to each  person – that of christian vocation, which is a holy calling.
for if poor tiff could see the way, he would take these children away by it.
can i to any unenlightened person illustrate this thought better?
for if ye live after the flesh, ye must die; but if by the spirit ye put to death the deeds of the body, ye shall live.
have we got things clearly?
such selfish, self-focus literally disconnects us from the one who created and redeemed us to live life abundantly in his name.
children, from the very start, are dependent on their parents for food and protection.
but mark thee, neither by repentance, nor  by leaving off thy sin, can save thee.
the sacrifice of calvary was not a part payment; it was not a partial  exoneration, it was a complete and perfect payment, and it obtained a complete  and perfect remittal of all the debts of all believers that have lived, do  live, or shall live, to the very end of time.
nowhere does the soul ever find such consolation as on that very spot where  misery reigned, where woe triumphed, where agony reached its climax.
you search the scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life.
once he seemed to stagger under it: “father, if it be  possible.”
paul says in effect: i have wasted a lot of time, others have got ahead of me.
well, not too long ago, they made a movie about his life.
we are free to live it.
there was a return to scripture as the authority – not the pope.
now, the maintruck, you are aware, is like a large round table put on to the mast, so that when the boy was on the maintruck there was plenty of room for him; but the difficulty was—to use the best explanation i can—that he could not reach the mast that was under the table; he was not tall enough to get down from this maintruck, reach the mast, and so descend.
because of jesus, we love god.
you  note, we have in our text, first of all, the redemption of christ jesus;  secondly, the justification of sinners flowing from it; and then thirdly, the  manner of the giving of this justification, “freely by his grace.”
here in the case of galatians it was circumcision.
we are not patient by nature.
he understands our temptations because he has experienced them, and he comes to  love and comfort us.
now, today, i’m not going to talk about his politics, or his religion.
and such confidence and knowledge of divine grace makes us joyous, mettlesome, and merry toward god and all creatures.
the sacrifice of calvary was not a part payment; it was not a partial exoneration, it was a complete and perfect payment, and it obtained a complete and perfect remittal of all the debts of all believers that have lived, do live, or shall live, to the very end of time.
feelings 2 timothy 1:6 6 for which cause i put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of god, which is in thee through the laying on of my hands.
this is the meaning of mount calvary.
we are not looking at a good man only, we are not interested merely in the greatest teacher the world has ever seen; we are face to face with the fact that god, the eternal son, has been in this world and that he took upon him human-nature and dwelt amongst us, a man among men – god-man.
but if you cleave to your own notions, and say, “no, sir, i mean to do a great many good things, and then i will believe in christ.”—sir, you will be damned if you hold by such delusions.
christ knows that  unless we do give them up, we shall be dashed to pieces at the last, for that  rotten trust must ruin us.
the smoke cannot be smelled nor does it irritate the eyes.
the bitter herbs of gethsemane have often taken away the bitters of your life; the scourge of gabbatha hath often scourged away your cares, and the groans of calvary have put all other groans to flight.
they had experienced the mount of transfiguration glow of his godliness.
to stand justified before god means that he looks on us as innocent, as pure in his eyes.
god’s word does teach that we can exercise our will freely in earthly matters.
and blessed be his  name, he paid it all at once too.
you cannot get any better, try as long as you please.
to say that jesus came to justify us is to say that the goal of his life  and work was that we might stand before god as righteous, acquitted of all sin  and guilt.
now ‘trial’ there means ‘the attestation of it’.
luke 8:22-25 “he said to them, let us go over to the other side..
in fact, when a christian dies, the angel of death  passes over completely.
this god is not only the god who judges and punishes sin but also the god  who has prepared an eternal kingdom of glory and joy for all those on whom his  favor rests.
the sins and guilt that used to condemn us can’t condemn us anymore.
they harp upon it and they cannot leave it.
grace, wondrous grace.
“what!” say you, “do  you mean that literally?”
he says in effect: ‘you are righteous; i see, not a sinner, but a righteous child of my own; i see you in christ covered by his holiness and righteousness’.
essentially salvation means union with christ, being one with christ.
please,  tell us what you think!”
it is the central teaching of the christian faith.
it’s that kind of question.
and i heard a voice from heaven saying to me, write, blessed are the dead who die in the lord from now on.
if ou bemoan a wasted past, make up for it in the present, give yourself entirely to living at this present moment.
this is one of those points at which the christian must stop praying for a moment and begin to think!
a copy made its way to rome, and efforts began to convince luther to change his tune.
there is only  one way whereby that prisoner can be justified; that is, he must be found not  guilty; and if he is found not guilty, then he is justified—that is, he  is proved to be a just man.
here stands a man all guilty.
my friends over there,” said he “find a great difficulty to get you up to their price; my difficulty is to bring you down to mine.”
it is an office created by god to proclaim jesus as savior, as the one who bore all the world’s sin and guilt that he might bring grace and forgiveness to sinners.
there have been prices paid sometimes, or rather offered, which never were accepted by the party to whom they were offered, and therefore the slave did not go free.
and he looked up and said, i see men as trees, walking.
2 corinthians 5:21 21
nowhere does the soul ever find such consolation as on that very spot where misery reigned, where woe triumphed, where agony reached its climax.
gold is precious but not as precious as faith.
the poor boy looked down on the sea; it was  a long way; he could not bear the idea of throwing himself into the roaring  current beneath him; he thought it looked angry and dangerous.
centuries ago, johann gerhard, a lutheran pastor and theologian, wrote that  every word of the bible is to be read as if it were printed with ink that is  the very blood of jesus.
are we ‘rejoicing with joy unspeakable and full of glory’?
it starts there, but it goes on.
any faith without the resurrection of jesus is nonsense.
chastening (heb 12:5)
for justification means this also, that we are given by god the positive righteousness of his own son, the lord jesus christ.
he is in the sepulchre.
i am about to suppose an impossible case.
that is why it is dealt with so frequently in the nt in such phrases as: “you did run well, who hinder you?”
receiving all that jesus is, all that he has done for you with simple trust, using all that he has given you in thankfulness to him and in service to others, without regard to how it stacks up among the brethren.
o my beloved, think what a grand sight it must have been when christ ascended into glory; what a noble certificate it must have been of his father’s acceptance of him!
they perverted it, with the result that the very thing which god had given them to further his way of salvation had become in their hands the main obstacle to it.
look at nothing and nobody but look entirely to christ and say: ‘my hope is built on nothing less than jesus blood and righteousness, i dare not trust my sweetest frame, but wholly lean on jesus name.
all this we accept, know, and confess through faith in christ.
good works can never save, but true faith never exists without them.
“what!” say you, “do you mean that literally?”
and i could not trust him.”
we can only conquer our doubts by looking steadily at him and by not looking at them.
rom 3:21-24 as sinful, human beings, we don’t want to be sent to sinai to touch it on our own.
so,  they were the chosen ones, and now they want to know what that might mean for  them.
it is not an office meant to bring people to sinai to encourage them to live there, to gain their hope there, and to stand before god there.
trials and difficulties and troubles at a time when we ourselves are in this critical period, we become wear in well doing.
but say this to yourself: ‘ransomed, healed, restored, forgiven, who like me his praise should sing.’
if he gives you the grace to make you believe, he will  give you the grace to live a holy life afterwards.
god takes us to mount calvary to witness the consequence of sin, the wrath of god, which brings death.
without the savior, we could not and would not  love god.
yes, not the independently powerful, or the personally suave, or debonair?
ye have had  your seasons of woe, my brethren and my sisters in christ jesus; and ye will  confess it was not at olivet that ye ever found comfort, not on the hill of  sinai, nor on tabor; but gethsemane, gabbatha, and golgotha have been a means  of comfort to you.
truth without grace won’t help us.
it seems to me that one of the chief dangers in protestantism today..in our fear of the error of justification by works, we have been saying that works do not matter at all.
can you for a moment conceive how, when the mighty conqueror entered the gates of heaven, the angels met him, “they brought his chariot from on high, to bear him to his throne; clapp’d their triumphant wings, and cried, ‘the glorious work is done’”
but through faith in jesus, we stand holy, pure, and innocent in god’s eyes.
and it ignited a movement that we are proud to be part of still today.
have we not all noticed when we have been working quite well that somehow if we turn for a season of prayer, we suddenly feel tired and fatigued.
faith can only be created only by the one who is believed.
and now i hear one cry, “that is an extraordinary doctrine.”
jesus, the son of god, did not take on human flesh, did not become one of  us, simply so we can know what is true.
but by the grace of god i am what i am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not found vain; but i labored more abundantly than they all: yet not i, but the grace of god which was with me.
they thought that he might expound on existentialist theology.
the moment you become christian we become subjected to the most subtle and powerful assaults of one who is described in the bible as ‘the prince of the power of the air’, ‘the spirit who now ruleth in the children of disobedience’, ‘the god of this world’, ‘satan’, the ‘devil’.
striving to be the best that god has created and redeemed you to be, to do your very best in him for others, such things are very laudable.
a good man stood by his bed-side, and said, “how much more are you going to leave?”
for freedom did christ set us free: stand fast therefore, and be not entangled again in a yoke of bondage.
human  overconfidence, plus human fallibility means that life’s questions need  bigger answers than we can provide.
god will never send too much for you.
1cor 6:9-10; eph 5:3-6; gal 5:18-21 the law god gave on mount sinai still stands.
“is it not strange, the darkest hour that ever dawn’d on sinful earth should touch the heart with softer power for comfort, than an angel’s mirth?
we must be on guard that worship does not degenerate into moralistic sermons dominated by law or songs that make no mention of jesus’ work of salvation.
if i could be justified!
and where is god’s love?
please, tell us what you think!”
the blood of jesus christ his son cleanseth us from all sin nd all unrighteousness.
upon mount calvary, we can meet our god without fear because the son of god gave up his life on this mountain to wash awaay all our sins, guilt, and shame.
it means that he clothes us also with the righteousness of jesus christ.
but the message of the gospel is that jesus took care of the required holiness of mount sinai and took care of god’s wrath against sin by taking on himself the punishment of death on mount calvary.
in the midst of the fog, hunter could not get an accurate evaluation of his location.
as members of the church, we enter an awesome family fellowship with  thousand of angels, with archangels, and with all those family members now  living in the heavenly jerusalem who are one with earthly jerusalem.
as he did so, he passed through a very poor section of town.
chapter 16 trials (1 peter 1:6, 7)
wheels, with death dragged as a captive through the royal streets of heaven?
but someone may say: in the gospel message you just tell people about forgiveness of sins.’
why do we elevate their status to such heights when it becomes apparent, as it  always does, that our heroes have feet of clay?
these false teachings are always telling us that we must do something ourselves; we must add on some plus, some action on our part, or allow something to be done to us.
it is always wrong to mortgage the present by the past, it is always wrong to allow the past to act as a brake upon the present.
the next step is that faith applies all that to the particular situation.
the problem with such bravado is that it asserts our complete independence even from god.
christ comes in, puts me aside, and stands himself in my stead.
whoever touches the mountain shall be surely put to death.
faith is faithful to the one who has been so kind, good, and gracious to us.
those who are once justified are justified irreversibly.
“freely by his grace;” “freely,” because there is no price to be paid for it; “by his grace,” because it is not of our deservings.
the captain called for a speaking trumpet; he put it to his mouth, and shouted, “boy, the next time the ship lurches, throw yourself into the sea.”
peter says that they were troubled because they were experiencing these manifold trials.
(12:9) furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the father of spirits, and live?
in the resurrection god has passed sentence on satan and on all the evil that nailed christ on the cross.
st paul touches on the great paradox that joy and trouble go hand in hand in the life of the christian.
never once are feelings put into the primary position.
john 15: 5 heb 11:6 “without faith it is impossible to please god.”
yes, those are the words of one mohammed ali.
mount sinai or mount calvary – where will we look for hope?
let me give you over again an illustration i have given hundreds of times, but i cannot find another so good, so i must give it again.
i’m sure that kids in jesus’ day were much like kids in our  day.
no, being a child of god means that we never forget  the ultimate source of our forgiveness, our strength, our wisdom, our life,  even our peace in this tense world.
his ultimate greatness  is defined by what he brings to you and to all who trust in him.
we are tempted by any number of media preachers to view the christian  faith as a set of rules to shape good behavior that pleases god.
isaiah 62:1 1 for zion’s sake i will not be silent, and for  jerusalem’s sake i will not rest, until its righteousness goes out as  brightness, and her salvation as a burning lamp.
can you for a moment conceive how, when the mighty conqueror entered  the gates of heaven, the angels met him, “they brought his chariot from on high, to bear him to his  throne; clapp’d their triumphant wings, and cried, ‘the glorious work is done’”
hide all my transgressions from view.’
you must do it, or else you  perish!
this does not mean that pastors should not preach the law, which they must do if people are to see the futility of living on sinai and embrace the riches of calvary so they might live on zion.
and, moreover, god gave a second proof of acceptance; for he took his only  begotten son to heaven, and set him at his right hand, far above all  principalities and powers; and therein he meant to say to him, “sit upon  the throne, for thou hast done the mighty deed; all thy works and all thy  miseries are accepted as the ransom of men.”
you need him as much as on your death-bed as you did on the night you were converted.
fortunately, they were able to put the basket down close to him one last time and he was carried away, finally, to safety.
here is one, god in the flesh, who has taken human nature unto himself and, as man, has rendered homage to god, perfect allegiance, perfect obedience.
but where do these garments come from?
cry out in your desperation.
the accident resulted in the loss of all seven ships.
well, it is a doctrine of the holy spirit; the doctrine whereby we must hope to be saved.
to think in terms of bargains and to murmur at results, implies a distrust of him, and we need to watch our own spirits lest we harbor the thought that he is not dealing with us justly and fairly.
not only was there an absence of the grace of the lord jesus christ in their lives but there was often an absence of the ordinary milk of human kindness.
that does not mean that we are to be passive.
yes, not only actual, but in the heart.
this message is the beating heart of christianity.
it is exactly the same with the element of patience or patient endurance, the sheer capacity to go on and to keep on in spite of discouragement.
all three mountains explain why jesus is at the center of  scripture and the christian faith.
salvation is all in christ, and unless ou feel yourself shut up to christ with everything else having failed, you are not a christian, and it is not surprising that you are not happy.
but st paul says, romans 3:20 20 because by the works of the law none of all flesh will  be justified in his sight; for through the law is the knowledge of sin.
that is the message, that is the doctrine, that is the principle.
it came to his mind, and it must ever start with his mind.
theses where they would be read and discussed by other augustinian monks – on the door of the church.
but say, was  it accepted?
the holy spirit calls us to faith by means of the gospel.
they were sent ‘to preach the gospel’, to preach and declare ‘jesus and the resurrection’ – this message, this form of doctrine, the deposit!
christians are always sinners and saints at the same time.
and that  game went on for at least an hour.
the work was completely done by  himself, without a helper.
in fact, when a christian dies, the angel of death passes over completely.
living in zion is living the life of the cross.
they may have committed some particular sin.
for i bear you witness, that, if possible, ye would have plucked out your eyes and given them to me.
feelings, perhaps, are the most variable.
it is an old trouble, and it was the essential trouble with the jews.
no longer be an uncertain christian seeing and not seeing.
everything we should have done, our substitute did.
and you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.”
god doesn’t give us everything we ask for or good health or money or success because we have enough faith.
we have broken god’s  commandments.
he does not drive us away.
it is what our lord was continually saying to the pharisees, and it certainly was the major argument which the apostle paul had with the jews.
now he gives everything that is his to us: his life of perfection, his conquest of sin and temptation, his death that pays for all guilt, his resurrection and life.
he has by-passed the essential preliminary to joy, he has been assuming something that he has no right to assume.
can i to any unenlightened person illustrate this  thought better?
finally there is only one sin and that is the sin of unbelief.
thus the message of sinai is silenced.
“and he said: ‘i tell you the truth, unless you change and become like little children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
first and foremost, of course, it is the work of the devil; it iss just satan who, though he cannot rob uss of our salvation, can definitely rob us of our joy.
one by one, the other destroyers followed the delphy’s lead and they smashed into the rocks as well.
but the spirit saith expressly, that in later times some shall fall away from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of demons, through the hypocrisy of men that speak lies, branded in their own conscience as with a hot iron; forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from meats, which god created to be received with thanksgiving by them that believe and know the truth.
it is the good news about jesus our substitute  who bore the punishment for our sins, our substitute who conquered death  through his death, our substitute who rose from the dead
and when god does that to us, he does it once and for ever.
but where do these  garments come from?
“is it not strange, the darkest hour that ever dawn’d on  sinful earth should touch the heart with softer power for comfort,  than an angel’s mirth?
i might take his punishment, but not his guilt.
the first thing must be self-examination.
this is the way we are saved, “being justified freely by his grace, through the redemption which is in christ jesus.”
well, for many of us, that bravado attracts us because we hope that if we  can glean merely a nugget of wisdom from folks like them, if we can mimic their  successful actions, maybe, just maybe we can have control of our lives just  like them.
such worship practices deprive people of the joy of truly christian worship.
earlier, he had even challenged jesus’ kingdom leadership when he rebuked jesus’ talk about suffering and crosses in his kingdom.
they are to preach not only that he died on the cross but  also that he died on a cross for our sins, to forgive us so we could live  forever..
you may take the life of any man who has been signally used by god and you will find that there has been a severe time of testing and of trial in his experience.
he will swallow up death in victory;  and the lord jehovah will wipe away tears from all faces.
they see him not as one rising out of the thunder,  lightning, and smoke of sinai to condemn, accuse, and threaten, but as the  crucified one who forgives, saves, and justifies.
now, what i do want to talk to you about, though, is his bravado, his braggadociousness.
when we see how greatly god has loved us, and truly believe that his love  is for us, we cannot help but love god in return.
the sin has been punished, so god, who is just and righteous, can forgive sin.
this is equally true in the religious or the spiritual life.
now, he’s not saying “be like this child” as if the child were blameless and holy.
i don’t think  they’re concern is excellence, or holiness, or faithfulness from  god’s point of view.
now, that is not surprising, for hunter was known for his  self-confident decisiveness and what others called his magic infallibility to  guide his ship.
but unless we know and  believe that jesus is the son of god who has come to forgive, all is nothing.
when christ redeemed his people, he did it thoroughly; he did  not leave a single debt unpaid, nor yet one farthing for them to settle  afterwards.
this is the  way we are saved, “being justified freely by his grace, through the  redemption which is in christ jesus.”
it is ‘well doing’ remember.
we must be absolutely clear about our sinfulness.
and above all let us consider the master for whom we work.
there  grace hath dug a fountain, which ever gusheth with waters pure as crystal, each  drop capable of alleviating the woes and the agonies of mankind.
it is finished in the sense that not only all the sins committed in the past were dealt with there, but all the sins that could ever be committed were also dealt with there.
not the one whose whole goal in  life is to go it completely on their own, to go it alone.
the one who has done the greatest thing of all for you, must be concerned about you in everything, and though the clouds are thick and you cannot see his face, you know he is there.
in one semse, a major theme of the bible and of christianity is our conduct as human beings.
no matter what shame they feel, god washes them clean.
and blessed be his name, he paid it all at once too.
society has done all it can to eliminate god’s law and thereby  extinguish god’s anger.
the law does not create, sustain,  or strengthened faith; it will only kill.
at his word everything came into being, and if one who is so powerful becomes angry, surely the results will be terrible.
the one who trusts or the  one who is trusted?
and where do those rags go to?
we were, indeed, poor  as owlets, we had not wherewith to bless ourselves.
heaviness means to be grieved, it means we are troubled.
i’m the double greatest.
on the other hand, if god is pleased with me, i am going to be happy.
because he did not see that christ is the friend of publicans and sinners and that he came to die for such people.
thus the major thrust of their preaching is not on  the grace and forgiveness found in the savior but on the importance of living a  good life.
it is the putting of another person in the rebel’s place.
now, we being, by the fall of adam, prone to guiltiness, and, indeed, virtually guilty, we were by the irreproachable judgment of god given up to the vengeance of the law; we were given into the hands of justice; justice claimed us to be his bond slaves for ever, unless we could pay a ransom, whereby our souls could be redeemed.
they thought that he might expound on existentialist  theology.
it is the doctrine of the church of england, it is the doctrine of luther, it is the doctrine of the presbyterian church; it is professedly the doctrine of all christian churches; and if it seems strange in your ears, it is because your ears are estranged, and not because the doctrine is a strange one.
for i make known to you, brethren, as touching the gospel which was preached by me, that it is not after man.
that sacred circle of calvary was kept for christ alone.
it is about  doing it our way, cutting ourselves off from the one in whom we live, and move,  and have our being.
but such bravado is eternally  deadly when our self-centered, over-confidence exists in the arena of our  spiritual lives, our life with god.
the father and the son send the spirit to cause the apostles too record the news of this wonderful salvation.
luther in his preface to romans said: “faith does not ask if good works are to be done, but before one can  ask, faith has already done them and is constantly active..
peter produced his own doubts by looking at the waves.
they are always analyzing it and scrutinizing and condemning themselves because of it.
it is  the doctrine of holy writ, that none can condemn whom god justifies, and that  none can accuse those for whom christ hath died; for they are totally free from  sin.
jesus’ resurrection is a victory for us.
his being the propitiation for our sins means that god has made him responsible for our sins.
can you think how loud were the plaudits when he entered the gates of  heaven?
in a sense we must not differentiate between sin and sin.
i think they were sure that they had attached themselves to the next big thing.
i have seen people in the church dealing with this general spiritual weariness in that very way.
this marvellous doctrine of the changing of places of christ with poor sinners, is a doctrine of revelation, for it never could have been conceived by nature.
to express this life-changing message, i have attempted, as much as is possible, to limit myself to demonstrating one simple, yet profound truth:
no matter what  wrongs haunt them and never leave them in peace, jesus, the lamb of god, has  taken them all away.
romans 6:2 2 god forbid.
we do not stop  being sinful when we become christians.
we need truth jesus brings.
“but may i not go to christ, lay some claim to his mercy, and say, lord, justify me because i am not so bad as others?”
if we are to go on rejoicing in spite of the things that grieve us, we must approach them and face them all in the way in which the apostle instructs us.
the greek word we translate as “justify” means “to put  into right relationship (with god), to acquit, to declare and treat as  righteous, to show or prove to be right.”
a model for those people who feel that their particular sin somehow or another passes the limit of grace and the mercy of god.
twenty-two naval men died.
all the people were agog waiting for the arrival of this notorious person.
i don’t know what they were playing, but i could hear them saying over and over again.
he did not drivel out a part-payment, and then declare that he would come again to die, or that he would again suffer, or that he would again obey; but down upon the nail, to the utmost farthing, the ransom of all people was paid, and a full receipt given to them, and christ nailed that receipt to his cross, and said, “it is done, it is done; i have taken away the handwriting of ordinances, i have nailed it to the cross; who is he that shall condemn my people, or lay anything to their charge?
upon mount calvary, we can meet our god without fear because the son of god  gave up his life on this mountain to wash awaay all our sins, guilt, and shame.
god is not angry with us because he truly loves us through christ, his son, and sees us as his dear children.
but when it is freely, freely, freely, men turn away.
if i were to go before a judge, and he should agree that i  should be committed for a year’s imprisonment, instead of some wretch who  was condemned yesterday to a year’s imprisonment, i could not take his  guilt.
1 corinthians 15:10 10
christians do not honor  god because they will be damned if they don’t.
you will be a  long while going up that treadmill, before you get an inch higher.
and later on they will begin to ask questions, the devil will see to it that questions are raised in their minds.
he says, “i have trodden the wine press alone; and of the people there was none with me.”
and now i close up with the third point, upon which i shall be brief,  and i hope very earnest: the manner of giving this justification.
and there came down a storm of wind ..and were in jeopardy ..saying, master, master, we perish.
apart from the birth, life, suffering, death, and resurrection of jesus, christianity is neither unique nor particularly helpful to sinners living under the law of a righteous and powerful god.
in the  midst of the fog, hunter could not get an accurate evaluation of his location.
well, it is a doctrine of the holy spirit; the doctrine whereby we  must hope to be saved.
it is the good news about jesus our substitute who bore the punishment for our sins, our substitute who conquered death through his death, our substitute who rose from the dead
thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not steal.. mark 12:30,31 30 and you shall love the lord your god with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength.
you will be able to say: ‘i see, i see in him all i need and more, and i know that i belong to him.’
no; it remained for the ransom of christ to effect that which is an impossibility to any tribunal upon earth.
he would never come back to the cross again.
you cannot read through your new testament without seeing at a glance that joy is meant to be the most striking things that conversion does is to take us out of some horrible pit, some miry clay and establish our feet upon a rock, and establish our goings and to put a new song in our mouth.
in the person of jesus a greater lamb has come, a lamb that had to be sacrificed so the greatest passover of all could occur.
thus in showing love to other christians, in helping them bear their crosses, we show our love for jesus.
it would not, sir; they would be no recommendation at all.
he may be pardoned; but not royalty itself can ever wash that  man’s character.
why do we have scores of  magazines whose only concern is “who is the greatest, who is the most  powerful, who makes the most money, who are the most beautiful,” when all  of these things are temporal and fleeting?
faith expresses  itslef in love.
during a 1923 training exercise, a naval destroyer called the uss delphy led a flotilla of seven vessels down the california coast.
if that’s who you are  today, it won’t take you long to discover how tenuous your control of  life really is.
but that didn’t stop hunter from plowing ahead.
but you will never be good enough; nobody has ever been good enough.
there the verdict of  guilty is brought in, and yet we are immediately afterwards said to be  justified freely by his grace.
john tells us in his gospel that when jesus came into the world, he was full of truth and grace (john 1:14).
when we look to jesus, we see him in the garden of gethsemane in such anguish that he sweats drops of blood.
the whole point of this parable is addressed to peter because off that claim which he made (matt 19).
no scene in  sacred history ever gladdens the soul like the scene on calvary.
“but no;” say you, “i must be a little better, and then i think christ will save me!”
it does not only mean that your sins are forgiven.
who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?
you have the same thing in those whose will is alone involved.
the second general cause of this condition is sheer laziness or indolence, lack of diligence.
an ice-pack trapped a fishing vessel and literally began to crush it among its powerful waves.
there is another form..
let him reign in heaven; let me suffer  misery.
you must take the trouble to learn it.
this is the great news.
john bunyan would have it, that there are some whose mouths are set a watering for this great gift of justification.
as he did so, he passed  through a very poor section of town.
a number of princes and other supporters of luther issued a protest, declaring that their allegiance to god trumped their allegiance to the emperor.
romans 14:23b st paul described the spiritual condition of the ephesian congregation before faith in this way: ephesians 2:1 1
john 1:29; isaiah 53:4-6 but jesus did more than take our punishment and death.
quotes from why i am a lutheran by daniel preus filed under:  lutheran — leave a comment september 6, 2011 it is my hope, within the pages of one modest volume, to demonstrate what  is always and only at the center of all christian teaching – jesus christ  and him crucified.
all the thrill of new discovery which animated us in the early stages suddenly seems to have gone.
christians bleed and hurt and die just like everybody else, which is one  reason christians often are considered foolish and pathetic by non-believers.
because of faith, we are justified, we enter the kingdom of god, and we enter the church.
must you hear the dreadful  threat—”he that believeth not shall be damned?”
how do we face this kind of position?
god has created love for him and for his family, the church, in our hearts.
the christian knows why he is what he is, and where he stands.
when the punishment is to be executed, forth comes christ.
do not try to live on your conversion.
we can thank jesus for grace that is not cheap but precious, the grace that opens the gates of heaven and places us on mount zion.
it may deny that god punished our sins ‘in his own body on the tree’.
that was what happened to peter.
faith brings us into the family of god.
this is beyond any question the outstanding glory of god.
if you continue in sin, you must not come to christ; you cannot; your sins will hamper you.
so priceless was the ransom, so princely and munificent was the price demanded for our souls, one might have thought it would have been marvellous if christ had paid it by instalments; some of it now, and some of it then.
pastors proclaim that grace not only covers every sin, grace is universal,  which means it covers every sinner.
he slept there a  portion of three days in his tomb.
and they are the ones witnessing of me, jesus meant more than that the old testament contains one or two passages  that refer to him.
so what are you celebrating this october 31?
the rebellion of humanity, the sinful condition of humanity in which we find ourselves today, is not merely about whether we do sinful things.
they are involved in accidents, they suffered pain, financial difficulty, failed marriages, dysfunctional families, disobedient and rebellious children, abusive spouses, apathetic parents.
the opposite to a false trust in works is not indolence, lack of discipline and doing nothing, it is to be diligent and more diligent, to be zealous, and to add to your faith.
for this reason they have never plainly seen their utter absolute need of the lord jesus christ.
the father and the son send the spirit to cause the  apostles too record the news of this wonderful salvation.
so they ask jesus, a very modern question “who is the greatest?”
“no,” you would say, “you are a miserable impostor; you do not want anything, and you shall not have anything either!
he continued to come to the town, day after day, just to see her and to feel as though he was near her.
the figure of redemption is very simple, and has been very frequently used in  scripture.
but their whole view of the law was entirely wrong.
adherents of these works-based religions live in  constant spiritual anguish, never confident that their god loves them or  accepts them.
he drank it all, he endured all, he suffered  all; so that now for ever there are no flames of hell for them, no racks of  torment; they have no eternal woes; christ hath suffered all they ought to have  suffered, and they must, they shall go free.
it made martin luther rejoice and sing and he in turn was the means of leading others to see this great truth.
a great gospel like this takes up the whole man.
i can do all things through christ who strengthens me.
we see him whipped and crowned with  thorns, suffering great pain on the cross, and finally dying.
what is the treatment?
not the glorified spirits above are more acceptable to god than the poor man below, who is once justified by grace.
faith is created by god.
i do not say this to urge any man to continue in sin.
in that prayer, luther cried out for god in his sense of total loneliness fearing that god had abandoned him, and proclaimed, “o lord, i am thine, and the cause is thine, give me the courage to stand.”
augsburg confession, the book of concord, theodore tappert, pg 31: in order that we may obtain this faith, the ministry of teaching the gospel  and administering the sacraments was insstituted.
only the holy spirit can create faith, which he does by showing us jesus.
well, let’s do this or that.
peter, in front of all the others, had even for a moment walked on water with him.
the point about these people is that they started in the right way and then got into trouble later on.
it is a waste of energy..
it is a lack of faith in his concern for us and in his care for us.
the true grace jesus brings covers every sin.
god’s love for the world sent jesus to suffer qnd die for everyone.
king’s ransoms have sometimes been paid part at once, and part in dues afterwards, to run through years.
fortunately, they were able to put the basket down close to him one last time
the rebel shall take my place; i  will take his.”
and one of the other methods which he uses is this method of chastisement.
what  have you to do, but to believe this and trust in him?
—- chapter 7 fear of the future 2 timothy 1:7 7
that was the peculiar form which it took in the case of galatia.
according to god’s word, in god’s eyes only believers do a good work.
holiness becomes a great task to them, and they begin to plan and organize their lives and introduce certain disciplines in order to enable them to carry it out.
but they stop at that.
if you see the truth clearly, you must feel it.
martin luther states that god has appointed many different stations or  offices in life so the love of jesus may be made manifest.
as a pastor stands at the foot of a hospital bed or meets with someone  whose marriage is dissolving or counsels someone whose spouse has died, he  often hears the questions why?
but in him, in his person and work, god is revealed to us in a way that truly is unique among all world religions.
our greatness will not be up to the task,  even for some of the things we can control.
the pastor’s preaching should always be focused on christ.
—– at the center of god’s word is jesus christ.
the proper work of a pastor is, in the words of luther, to speak “a  word of salvation, a word of grace, a word of comfort, a word of joy, a voice  of the bridegroom and the bride, a good word, a word of peace” so the  church may rejoice in the knowledge of her salvation.
the lightning cannot be  seen.
for this very cause then give all diligence.
it did not touch their conduct or behavior at all, but was confined entirely to the mind.
if god declares us just, then that means he is happy with what he sees.
they help  one another.. if one member suffers, all suffer together; if one member is honored, all  rejoice together..
god is not angry with us because he truly loves us through christ, his  son, and sees us as his dear children.
the true foundation romans 3:28 28
where then is that gratulation of yourselves?
what does jesus say will happen to his disciples if they are faithful to him?
they put up some new program.
“but no;” say you, “i must be a little better, and then  i think christ will save me!”
if i were to preach justification which would consist in whippings and torture, there are very few here who would not whip themselves, and that severely too.
he lived among the people, shared their interests and their concerns, and he talked their language.
if i could preach  justification to you by walking a hundred miles, would we not be pilgrims  tomorrow morning, every one of us?
the moment the man believes in christ, he ceases to be guilty in god’s esteem; but what is more, he becomes righteous, he becomes meritorious; for, in the moment when christ takes his sins he takes christ’s righteousness; so that, when god looks upon the sinner who but an hour ago was dead in sins, he looks upon him with as much love and affection as he ever looked upon his son.
faithful pastors want people to live, not perish, so they preach the  gospel.
now is the crisis of this world; it hangs trembling in the balance.
god’s love for the world sent jesus to suffer qnd die for  everyone.
james (1:2) consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials of many kinds, god permits storms, he permits difficulties, he permits the wind to blow and the billows to roll, and everything may seem to be going wrong and we ourselves to be in jeopardy.
this fellowship is with god the father who cares and loves his family..
his heart yearned for her, but there was a problem.
if god’s anger has been extinguished, then all penalty for sin, all punishment, also is eradicated.
they come to you looking unhappy, indeed miserable, and they always talk about this one thing, they invariably bring it up.
yea, and for this very cause adding on your part all diligence, in your faith supply virtue; and in your virtue knowledge; (1:6) and in your knowledge self-control; and in your self-control patience; and in your patience godliness; (1:7) and in your godliness brotherly kindness; and in your brotherly kindness love.
luther in his preface to romans said: “faith does not ask if good works are to be done, but before one can ask, faith has already done them and is constantly active..
before man can be reconciled to god, before man can know god, this sin of his must be removed.
everything we should have suffered, our substitute suffered.
but, after thinking about the question for a moment, barth answered, “jesus loves me this i know for the bible tells me so.”
it shows  us for what we are – sinners.
doubts are not incompatible with faith.
this fellowship is the eternal feast of everlasting righteousness, which is given to the family of god by the lamb who was slain.
unfortunately, in many churches preachers do not seem to understand the  nature of their own office.
it also means that we now live to the glory of god.
ye have had your seasons of woe, my brethren and my sisters in christ jesus; and ye will confess it was not at olivet that ye ever found comfort, not on the hill of sinai, nor on tabor; but gethsemane, gabbatha, and golgotha have been a means of comfort to you.
if god declares us unjust, then, of course, he is unhappy with or angry at what he sees.
revelation 1:8 8 i am the alpha and omega, the beginning and the  ending, says the lord, who is and who was and who is to come, the almighty.
“there,” says another, “i like that; i shall go and believe in christ, and live as i like.”
the christian life seems to them to be a constant problem, and they are always asking the same question.
here i stand, the  sinner.
what is the antidote to this condition?
that’s what jesus’ disciples were looking for from him that  day.
“but may i not offer this  plea, i mean to be better?”
and when christ paid all this ransom, will you just notice, that he did it all himself!
( for it is written,”cursed is everyone having been  hanged on a tree”); not only has christ taken on himself all our sins and made them his own,  but he has given to us his righteousness and made then ours.
but this was accepted.
galatians 3:13 13 christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us
isaiah 41:4 4 who has planned and done it, calling forth the  generations from the beginning?
the preaching of the gospel is despised when people do not hear the law and  come to the knowledge of their sin.
the second negative: do not resign yourself to it.
for i am the least of the apostles and am not sufficient to be called an apostle, because i persecuted the church of god.
therefore whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.’”
at his word everything came into being, and if one who  is so powerful becomes angry, surely the results will be terrible.
faith is something we have to bring to operation.
he came that we might see clearly, that we might know god.
in fact, jesus’ resurrection is the declaration that god already has defeated all evil through christ, his son.
www.spurgeon.org/sermons/0126.htm enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
he knew his father would keep his word; the ship lurched on one side, over went the boy splash into the sea, and out went brawny arms after him; the sailors rescued him, and brought him on deck.
it is my hope, within the pages of one modest volume, to demonstrate what is always and only at the center of all christian teaching – jesus christ and him crucified.
and he shall take away from all the earth the rebuke of his people.
then the gospel gives life to sinners who were “dead in the trespasses and sins” (eph 2:1).
mommy, daddy, look  at what i’m doing.”
it is the problem of middle life..middle age.
no, sir; it is “by his grace.”
all the teachings of the bible revolve around jesus, its pulsating center, the savior of the world.
we have to admit that it has not all been for the glory of god, but for our glory.
this church is one throughout the whole world, and it is one in heaven.
copies of the theses reached rome and critical meetings were scheduled with the young monk.
there are so many things to distract us.
you will find people who have one part of their personality engaged only – head only, heart only, will only.
in this sense christians are unique in their relationship to god.
luther was an outlaw.
that is what made paul an apostle, that he was a witness to the fact of the resurrection.
i tell you, sir, if you bring in  any of your deservings, you shall never have it.
you must stop praying at times because your prayer may just be reminding you of the problem and keeping your mind fixed upon it.
to stand justified before god means that he looks on us as innocent,  as pure in his eyes.
in time, the young peasant girl grew to know him, and then to love him, and with that all that he had became hers as well.
the office  of the ministry itself is christocentric, that is, christ is at the center.
if we impose upon ourselves in this christian life a new law which you and i have to keep in our own strength, we are doomed to failure.
they held the wrong view of righteousness.
receiving all that jesus is, all that he has done for you with simple  trust, using all that he has given you in thankfulness to him and in service to  others, without regard to how it stacks up among the brethren.
and the second is like this: you shall love your neighbor as yourself.
the famous theologian, karl barth, one of the great minds of the 20th  century, was being interviewed by a group of seminary students one day.
let me give you over again an  illustration i have given hundreds of times, but i cannot find another so good,  so i must give it again.
it is the devil defeating you.
romans 3:25,26 25 whom god has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness through the passing by of the sins that had taken place before, in the forbearance of god; 26 for the display of his righteousness at this time, for him to be just and, forgiving the one being of the faith of jesus.
1 thess 1:6 god does not promise us an end to trouble and suffering until our term on  earth has ended.
jonathan put his robes on david, david gave jonathan his garments; so christ  takes our sins, we take christ’s righteousness; and it is by a glorious  substitution and interchange of places that sinners go free and are justified  by his grace.
if all christians simply began to function as the new testament would have us do, there would be no problem of evangelism confronting the church.
do not go up into the mountain, or touch the border of it.