the iisoh is a pennsylvania non-profit, educational, literary and research  corporation organized under section 501(c)3 of the internal revenue code.
but the sport of boxing is  very old.
larger donations are recognized with engraved marble, granice or bronze plaques that will be mounted on interior or exterior walls designated by the board of directors as "walls of honor."
send a donation in cash or non-cash form.
in the 1790's daniel medoza,  another british boxer, introduced refined techniques to the sport which  included fancy footwork, sparring and the use of counter punches.
bare knuckles and brutality were refined with rules by john 'jack' broughton,  who is considered to be the father of english boxing.
donations over $250 are recognized with an engraved brick (paver) to be placed in the cafe patio area or walkways through the sculpture gardens.
it is a sport in the modern  olympic games and a serious professional sport.
with a history dating back to antiquity the sport of boxing has vast quantities of documentation that the iisoh would like to acquire.
some famous modern boxers  include rocky marciano, joe frazier, muhammad ali (formerly known as cassius  clay), george foreman, lennox lewis and mike tyson.
he was boxing champion  from 1729 until 1750 and introduced some refinement to the sport including a  break for the boxers when one was knocked down.
in 1867 the  marquis of queensberry, john sholto douglas, introduced the queensbury rules  which are still used today.
it is a sport in the modern olympic games and a serious professional sport.
collectors are encouraged to send us books, monographs, theses & dissertations, magazine and subscription collections for the library, as well as medals, pins, torches, posters, artwork and collectables for the museum.
in 1867 the marquis of queensberry, john sholto douglas, introduced the queensbury rules which are still used today.
the english revived the  sport of boxing in the 1600's with the first mention in a newspaper dated 1681.
the iisoh website is temporarily hosted by harvey abrams-books
this page was created february 23, 2002
bare knuckles and brutality were refined with rules by john 'jack' broughton, who is considered to be the father of english boxing.
the english revived the sport of boxing in the 1600's with the first mention in a newspaper dated 1681.
this was was updated october 27, 2009
with a history dating back to antiquity the sport of boxing has vast  quantities of documentation that the iisoh would like to acquire.
he was boxing champion from 1729 until 1750 and introduced some refinement to the sport including a break for the boxers when one was knocked down.
the ancient romans practiced a cruel form of boxing  with hard metal studs wrapped around their hands with leather thongs -- which  can be seen on the statue at the top of this page.
the ancient egyptians practiced boxing.
we seek everything, in every  language, in order to develop a comprehensive research collection.
these rules included such refinements as three  minute rounds, a ban on hugging and wrestling, the famous ten second count, and  the use of protective gloves.
for additional subject areas click here to view the subject list .for additional subject areas click here to view the subject list .
these rules included such refinements as three minute rounds, a ban on hugging and wrestling, the famous ten second count, and the use of protective gloves.
links to pages about the international institute for sport and olympic history contact: international institute for sport and olympic history (iisoh) po box 175 state college, pa, usa 16804 mr. harvey abrams, president email: olympicbks@aol.comolympicbks@aol.com
library donations: museum donations: these lists are not comprehensive and are limited only by your imagination!these lists are not comprehensive and are limited only by your imagination!
please join  us in development of this collection.
the library and museum eagerly accept donations of material that are within the scope of its collections.
it was part of the ancient  olympic games from 688 bc until the games were banished by roman emperor  theodosius ist in 393 ce.
the endowment is permanently funded because the entire one million dollar donationthe endowment is permanently funded because the entire one million dollar donation cash donations in any amount are always welcome and are added to the endowment with the donor receiving recognition for their support in a variety of ways.
all donors are recognized in the publications and/or website of the institute.
philatelic items, stamp collections, illustrated postcards on boxing numismatic items, coins, exonumia with boxing themes uniforms, clothing, textiles, fashions physical education, recreation and play equipment related to boxing games, especially antique items these lists are not comprehensive and are limited only by your  imagination!
boxing is extremely popular in many nations.
boxing is an international sport that dates to the ancient  olympic games numerous ancient civilizations.
some famous modern boxers include rocky marciano, joe frazier, muhammad ali (formerly known as cassius clay), george foreman, lennox lewis and mike tyson.
for additional subject areas click here to view the subject list .
the iisoh is devoted to the subject areas of history of sport -  physical education - recreation - dance - sport in art - olympic games donations are tax deductable links to pages about the international institute for sport and olympic  history read the articles of incorporation here read the bylaws here meet the board of directors here become a charter member or send a donation building plans
but the sport of boxing is very old.
it was part of the ancient olympic games from 688 bc until the games were banished by roman emperor theodosius ist in 393 ce.
the ancient romans practiced a cruel form of boxing with hard metal studs wrapped around their hands with leather thongs -- which can be seen on the statue at the top of this page.
when we build a facility -- please visit often.
the iisoh a non-profit, educational corporation under section 501(c)3 of the internal revenue code - the donation is tax deductible.
please join us in development of this collection.
in the 1790's daniel medoza, another british boxer, introduced refined techniques to the sport which included fancy footwork, sparring and the use of counter punches.