he used his new popularity to transform himself into a cottage industry, a  one-man endorsement machine.
frazier died tragically last november, marking a very sad day for boxing  fans everywhere.
tragically, chavez's furious attack destroyed taylor as an elite fighter and quite likely precipitated his post-career health problems.
in his second career, big george was a gregarious, charismatic,  larger-than-life figure.
the poet maya angelou devotes an  entire chapter of her memoir to recounting the wild celebrations that engulfed  her rural southern community when joe louis fought.
at the height of his career, he was possibly the most popular person on the planet.
born and raised on new york city's lower east side during the years when it was a violent ghetto,rocky graziano, 67(52)-10(3)-6, overcame a misspent youth and stints in reform school and jail to become a world middleweight champion and one of the hardest punchers to ever fight in the 160-pound division.
nevertheless, his star has never really diminished, as was evident at his recent 70th birthday celebration at themgm grand in las vegas.
subscribe nowwe will never share your email address thanks for signing up.
in retirement, marciano dabbled in acting, before dying tragically in a plane crash the night before he would have turned 46.
a european fan could fairly object that the brothers are as  popular as many of the fighters on my list.
if george foreman had not launched one of the most improbable comebacks in  sports history in 1987, he would not be on this list.
8: rocky marciano rocky marciano, 49(43)-0, is the only man to ever retire as the undefeated  heavyweight champion of the world.
the pacman's popularity is an explosive phenomenon that is still happening, so any attempt to evaluate it right now can do no more than provide a temporary snapshot.
but ultimately, while he could be humorous and engaging in interviews or during public appearances, he was never quite the gregarious entertainer that ali was and george foreman became.
why is this article poorly edited?
he bit  evander holyfield's ear and threatened to eat lennox lewis' children.
where is this article plagiarized from?
chavez had a relentless, crowd-pleasing style, a granite chin and a brutally punishing body attack.
the crowd at a rangers or knicks game could be no more partisan.
his first fight with joe frazier in 1971 was perhaps the most highly anticipated sporting event ever.
he did guest appearances on popular  sitcoms likedifferent strokes.
when the war came, louis enlisted and was assigned to the special services unit.
jones  nevertheless achieved mainstream popularity, taking on acting roles  and recording rap albums.
but as world war ii approached, louis became a hero to the entire nation when he faced the german champion max schmeling.
the poet maya angelou devotes an entire chapter of her memoir to recounting the wild celebrations that engulfed her rural southern community when joe louis fought.
yes   edit your name for bleacher report:  first name (required)    last name (required)        do you want to use your facebook profile picture on bleacher report?
when he refused induction into the military  during the vietnam war he was stripped of his title and threatened with jail  time.
graziano's autobiography,somebody up there likes me, was the basis for the oscar-winning 1956 movie starring paul newman.
cotto is a kind of textbook example for how a fighter can achieve superstar popularity.
he would have been a very popular fighter, even  if he and ali had never crossed paths.
there is also a clear bias towards north  american fighters, with popularity largely defined by visibility within the  united states media.
3: john l. sullivan john l. sullivan was the first boxing champion of the gloved era and  arguably the first american sports superstar ever.
this is one of the entries on the list that i anguished over, because i wonder if i have joe frazier ranked high enough.
but ultimately, while he could be  humorous and engaging in interviews or during public appearances, he was never  quite the gregarious entertainer that ali was and george foreman became.
he was  also charismatic and engaging, and as his career was winding down, hollywood  beckoned.
off the top of my head, i can think of two different people who have told me they became boxing fans as a direct result of watching one of their three famous wars.
the line, "you never got me down,  ray," was a kind of all-purpose statement of defiance among sports and pop  culture wise guys of my generation.
if cotto can pull off an upset against floyd mayweather jr. on may 5 of this year, his popularity will sky rocket.
made the bronx bull a cultural icon.
iron mike was a street kid handpicked out of reform school by cus d'amato, to become a world champion.
in the united states and across the globe, muhammad ali is not only the most popular boxer of all time.
18: micky ward the pride of lowell, massachusetts, micky ward, 38(27)-13(1), was a  fighter like his famed rival arturo gatti—the kind that made people fans  of the sport.
archie moore "the old mongoose" archie moore, 185(131)-23(7)-10, had a career  that lasted for nearly 30 years, from 1935 to 1963.
there is also a clear bias towards north american fighters, with popularity largely defined by visibility within the united states media.
clearly the american public wants to embrace the enigmatic and formerly fearsome champ.
chavez's last-second, come-from-behind knockout of meldrick taylor was the ring's fight of the year for 1990 and was later selected as  fight of the decade.
this eight-year stretch of sub-mediocrity has somewhat obscured the fact that he was the most talented boxer of his generation, and one of the top few pound-for-pound fighters of the past 40 years.
there could be no other name at the top of a list like this.
his cameo inthe hangover created a sensation and led to a larger  involvement in the sequel.
ward's career made him a beloved figure to boxing fans, but having his exciting  story dramatized in an award-winning movie starring one of hollywood's biggest  stars took his popularity to a new level.
when he stopped trevor berbick in two rounds for the wbc strap in 1986, he was the youngest heavyweight champion in history, and still not old enough to legally buy beer.
include all of these words: include any of these words: include this exact phrase: select a date range this week past 30 days past 3 months past year
their fight, famously dubbed "the rumble in the jungle," was later the subject of the 1996 oscar-winning documentary when we were kings.
if this was a list of most disliked fighters, floyd mayweather jr, 42(26)-0, could very well be at the top of it.
but with his explosive and relentless style, his olympic gold medal and  world heavyweight championship.
do you want to share your bleacher report activity on facebook?
the charismatic kid was so slick and sweet that he earned the ultimate  honor, the nickname of "sugar" ray, an homage to the legendary sugar  ray robinson.
when a fan shouted "we love you mike," the crowd broke into applause.
off the top of my head, i can think of two different people who  have told me they became boxing fans as a direct result of watching one of  their three famous wars.
he also took up painting and had his work displayed in numerous new york city  galleries.
why is this article poorly edited?flag this article this comment and all replies have been deleted this comment has been deleted undo delete         use your full name  on bleacher report?
6,822 reads 43previous to evaluate and compare the relative popularity of fighters from different historical eras, i used four separate and more or less equal criteria: 1.
the pride of lowell, massachusetts, micky ward, 38(27)-13(1), was a fighter like his famed rival arturo gatti—the kind that made people fans of the sport.
sullivan seems to have enjoyed drinking and telling stories at least as  much as he liked to fight.
i can still vividly see si-hun in my mind's eye, turning his head and  staring in disbelief, stunned along with everybody else as the ref raised his  hand in victory.
in the 1960s, ali became a symbol of the cultural rebellion that was sweeping the nation and the world.
by the end of ali's storied career, he had transformed from cultural rebel to beloved icon.
why is this article offensive?
ward's career made him a beloved figure to boxing fans, but having his exciting story dramatized in an award-winning movie starring one of hollywood's biggest stars took his popularity to a new level.
the big george who came back in 1987 was destined to become one of the most beloved fighters of all time.
his was among the most meteoric rises in the  history of american society, let alone sports or boxing.
graziano himself gravitated towards show business and acted in television shows and appeared on variety shows from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s.
dempsey's popularity only grew in retirement.
1: muhammad ali jed jacobsohn/getty images there could be no other name at the top of a list like this.
this was a crucial development in the evolution of the united states into a more legitimately multicultural society.
in the post-world war ii era, he was the stylish embodiment of hip, uptown new york glamour.
the "manassa mauler" had a furious and explosive style that thrilled crowds, and a left hook the likes of which the division would not see again until joe frazier arrive a half-century later.
along with perhaps pele and michael jordan, he is the most famous  athlete of all time.
6: sugar ray robinson i'm not sure if the term "pound-for-pound" was actually invented  forsugar ray robinson, 173(108)-19(1)-6, but it might as well have been.
he bit evander holyfield's ear and threatened to eat lennox lewis' children.
ali lost his initial bid to reclaim his title, but later succeeded in thrilling fashion, upsetting the heavily favored george foreman in zaire.
in his 40's, he served heroically during world war ii and his restaurant, jack dempsey's, was a new york city institution for years.
of course it's no secret that ward's spot on this list was secured thanks  to mark wahlberg's portrayal of him in the 2010 biopicthe fighter.
heavyweights dominate here, which should hardly come as a surprise.
and mayweather has no shortage of legitimate fans.
he became a pariah to much of the mainstream media, but also a hero that  transcended sports to a generation of young people.
to this day, "the george foreman grill" is a very popular product and foreman himself remains among the sport's top broadcasters.
if you doubt me, spend a little  time browsing the bleacher report readers' comment section.
he used his new popularity to transform himself into a cottage industry, a one-man endorsement machine.
the second fight, a six-round tko win for  graziano, won the same honors in 1947.
my own opinion is that taylor  had already taken significant damage going into the last round (even though i  would still score him comfortably ahead) and was in desperate condition, and  with more than enough time left for chavez to possibly put him into a coma.
pacquiao is so popular in his native philippines that he was able to get elected to the congress there, despite a lack of any real qualifications to hold office and an inability to serve more than part-time while continuing to train to be perhaps the greatest pound-for-pound fighter on the planet.
nobody's name has ever been used as often in the same sentence.
in the united  states and across the globe, muhammad ali is not only the most popular boxer of  all time.
robinson is one of the towering figures in the history of boxing, and a iconic figure in american popular culture.
within two years and 12 fights, he had beaten 16-0 jimmi bredahl for the wbo super featherweight title.
at a time when the boxing game was only marginally even legal in most parts of the united states, sullivan earned the largest parts of his fortune touring and putting on exhibitions.
but inraging bull, robert de niro did  for lamotta what marky mark did for micky ward, except on steroids.
19: miguel cotto al bello/getty images i've heard bob arum say in press conferences that miguel cotto,  37(30)-2(2), has sold more tickets in madison square garden than any other  fighter since 2000.
in 1997,international boxing digest ranked him  as the top pound-for-pound fighter of all time.
he is a  big enough mainstream star to have walked into professional wrestling  pay-per-view events.
he ended  up winning a silver medal, instead, but only because he fell victim to perhaps  the worst judging decision in the history of olympic boxing, losing to korean  native park si-hun.
at the height of his career,  he was as popular as any fighter who ever stepped into the ring.
genuine affection from the public.
rocky marciano, 49(43)-0, is the only man to ever retire as the undefeated heavyweight champion of the world.
chavez had a relentless, crowd-pleasing style, a granite chin and a  brutally punishing body attack.
i was lucky enough to cover the cotto-margarito card not long afterwards, and prior to the card i got to attend a panel with joe's son, marvis, where he talked about his own experiences fighting in the garden and his memories of his father's fabled wars there.
at the height of his career, he was as popular as any fighter who ever stepped into the ring.
for the rest of the decade, de la hoya took on and defeated some of the  sport's toughest competitors, such as julio cesar chavez, pernell whitaker,  hector camacho and ike quartey.
for many decades of the 20th century, boxing was among the most popular of professional sports and the heavyweight champion, by definition, was one of the most popular heroes of the day.
this is not a list of  my 20 favorite fighters.
he is a big enough mainstream star to have walked into professional wrestling pay-per-view events.
not surprisingly, the transition from rejected throw-away child to sports  superstar was difficult, and once d'amato passed away early in tyson's career,  things went downhill relatively quickly.
17: oscar de la hoya ethan miller/getty images to me, oscar de la hoya, 39(30)-6(2), sometimes seems like the  last great american boxing star, an olympic gold medal hero enthusiastically  embraced by the public from the very start of his career.
there was a great deal of controversy over whether or not richard steele's  stoppage with two seconds left was appropriate.
julio cesar chavez, 107(86)-6(4)-2, was among the greatest boxing attractions of the 1980's and perhaps the greatest mexican champion of all time.
for example, the klitschko brothers' fights in germany have the atmosphere  of rock concerts and the two are major celebrities both there and in their  native ukraine.
by the end of ali's storied career, he had transformed from  cultural rebel to beloved icon.
i've even read interviews where he maintained that cotto had probably sold more tickets at the garden than muhammad ali.
within two years  and 12 fights, he had beaten 16-0 jimmi bredahl for the wbo super featherweight  title.
their fight, famously dubbed "the rumble in the  jungle," was later the subject of the 1996 oscar-winning documentary when we were kings.
the september 2011 issue ofthe ring ran a nice story by don stradley about moore's acting career, extensively detailing the critical acclaim of moore's turn as jim in the 1960 film version ofhuckleberry finn.
lasting visibility within modern popular culture; 3.
robinson's two-fisted power and slick boxing dazzled crowds at a time when  boxing was at its most popular.
although he was still not 24 years old, he had already reached his peak as  a professional fighter.
the crowd at a rangers or  knicks game could be no more partisan.
to this day, "the george foreman grill" is a very popular product  and foreman himself remains among the sport's top broadcasters.
i've heard bob arum say in press conferences that miguel cotto, 37(30)-2(2), has sold more tickets in madison square garden than any other fighter since 2000.
in the late 1940's he fought a classic three-fight series with tony  zale.
people who have never watched a  round of boxing would have no trouble identifying "sugar ray" as a  boxing reference.
the september 2011 issue ofthe ring ran a nice story by don  stradley about moore's acting career, extensively detailing the critical  acclaim of moore's turn as jim in the 1960 film version ofhuckleberry  finn.
in  retirement, marciano dabbled in acting, before dying tragically in a plane  crash the night before he would have turned 46.
the first fight, a six-round ko victory by zale, wasthe ring 1946 fight of the year.
jake lamotta, 83(30)-19(4)-4, was a world champion and an extremely popular fighter during his career, at a time when boxing stood alongside baseball as the nation's most popular sport.
he was also charismatic and engaging, and as his career was winding down, hollywood beckoned.
my own opinion is that taylor had already taken significant damage going into the last round (even though i would still score him comfortably ahead) and was in desperate condition, and with more than enough time left for chavez to possibly put him into a coma.
"the golden boy" returned from barcelona in 1992 with his  likeness on a box of wheaties and his name already splashed across the pages of  important publications like sports illustrated.
for  many decades of the 20th century, boxing was among the most popular of  professional sports and the heavyweight champion, by definition, was one of the  most popular heroes of the day.
in the post-world war ii era, he was the  stylish embodiment of hip, uptown new york glamour.
he also took up painting and had his work displayed in numerous new york city galleries.
but he was a sports star whose significance far surpassed the world of sports.
stature and fame within the sports world and popular culture of their own era; 2.
the line, "you never got me down, ray," was a kind of all-purpose statement of defiance among sports and pop culture wise guys of my generation.
the charismatic kid was so slick and sweet that he earned the ultimate honor, the nickname of "sugar" ray, an homage to the legendary sugar ray robinson.
his popularity was based upon the ferocious way he fought—particularly his brutal body attacks, which stood in stark contrast to his calm and soft-spoken demeanor.
but with his explosive and relentless style, his olympic gold medal and world heavyweight championship.
create a custom date range from: to: manny pacquiao and the 20 most popular fighters of all time by briggs seekins (featured columnist)  on march 21, 2012 6,822 reads 1 of 22  next mike lawrie/getty images to evaluate and compare the relative popularity of fighters from different  historical eras, i used four separate and more or less equal criteria: 1.
but as world war ii approached, louis became a hero to the entire nation  when he faced the german champion max schmeling.
i'm not sure if the term "pound-for-pound" was actually invented forsugar ray robinson, 173(108)-19(1)-6, but it might as well have been.
either way, he's been one of the sport's biggest stars during an era when  boxing has had few enough of them left.
marciano was the ring fighter of the year in 1952, '54 and '55.
i was lucky enough to cover the cotto-margarito card not long  afterwards, and prior to the card i got to attend a panel with joe's son,  marvis, where he talked about his own experiences fighting in the garden and  his memories of his father's fabled wars there.
still a young man, de la hoya has already transitioned into a very successful promotional career and remains among the sport's most visible figures.
moore's debut ended up being the peak of his acting career, though he did landmany more roles on television shows throughout the 1960s and early 70s.
"the golden boy" returned from barcelona in 1992 with his likeness on a box of wheaties and his name already splashed across the pages of important publications like sports illustrated.
he ended up winning a silver medal, instead, but only because he fell victim to perhaps the worst judging decision in the history of olympic boxing, losing to korean native park si-hun.
pacquiao is the most popular active boxer in the united states.
ali lost his initial bid to reclaim his title,  but later succeeded in thrilling fashion, upsetting the heavily favored george  foreman in zaire.
he did guest appearances on popular sitcoms likedifferent strokes.
cotto is a kind of textbook example for how a fighter can achieve superstar  popularity.
i can still vividly see si-hun in my mind's eye, turning his head and staring in disbelief, stunned along with everybody else as the ref raised his hand in victory.
people who have never watched a round of boxing would have no trouble identifying "sugar ray" as a boxing reference.
the second fight, a six-round tko win for graziano, won the same honors in 1947.
although he was still not 24 years old, he had already reached his peak as a professional fighter.
leonard was a mainstream sports star in the late 1970s and early 1980s.
in his second career, big george was a gregarious, charismatic, larger-than-life figure.
he had studied elocution and drama at boston college briefly before dropping out and used the skills he had acquired when he frequently performed on the stage.
jones' brilliant pro career unfortunately coincided with an era when boxing  as a sport was falling in popularity with the american public.
clearly the american public wants to embrace the  enigmatic and formerly fearsome champ.
in february of 1990 he was knocked out in tokyo by buster douglas, one of the greatest upsets in boxing history.
ray leonard, 36(25)-3(1)-1, exploded onto the american sports world during the 1976 montreal olympics, when he won a gold medal as part of the most celebrated u.s. olympic boxing team ever assembled.
mayweather is unquestionably among the most skilled boxers of his  generation and never hesitates to rank himself as the greatest of all time.
mayweather is unquestionably among the most skilled boxers of his generation and never hesitates to rank himself as the greatest of all time.
at the height of his career,  he was among the most well-known fighters in the word, simply by virtue of  being muhammad ali's greatest rival.
for the rest of the decade, de la hoya took on and defeated some of the sport's toughest competitors, such as julio cesar chavez, pernell whitaker, hector camacho and ike quartey.
graziano himself gravitated towards show business and acted in television  shows and appeared on variety shows from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s.
in 1993 he starred in his own sitcom, titled george.
mike tyson exploded into american pop culture as an teenage phenomenon.
if george foreman had not launched one of the most improbable comebacks in sports history in 1987, he would not be on this list.
i'll make sure  they take care of you."
begin slideshow what is the duplicate article?
mayweather has been among the greatest pay-per-view revenue generators in the sport's history.
along with sugar ray robinson, he spent the war touring military bases  and entertaining his fellow soldiers.
in february of 1990 he was knocked out  in tokyo by buster douglas, one of the greatest upsets in boxing history.
a european fan could fairly object that the brothers are as popular as many of the fighters on my list.
the big george who came back in 1987 was destined to become one of the most  beloved fighters of all time.
pacquiao is so  popular in his native philippines that he was able to get elected to the  congress there, despite a lack of any real qualifications to hold office and an  inability to serve more than part-time while continuing to train to be perhaps  the greatest pound-for-pound fighter on the planet.
robinson is one of the towering figures in the history of boxing, and a  iconic figure in american popular culture.
his cameo inthe hangover created a sensation and led to a larger involvement in the sequel.
subscribe to more teams terms of service | privacy policy | los angeles times, 202 west 1st street, los angeles, california, 90012 | copyright 2012
moore was a slick boxer, a powerful puncher and defensive wizard.
it's not too radically far from the actualfinish, either.
when the war came, louis enlisted and was assigned to the special services  unit.
against hitler's favorite, the "brown bomber" became  "our guy" for an entire nation still struggling, and very often  failing, to overcome an extremely racist legacy.
not surprisingly, the transition from rejected throw-away child to sports superstar was difficult, and once d'amato passed away early in tyson's career, things went downhill relatively quickly.
between 1991 and 1995 he served nearly four years on a rape charge.
jack dempsey, 61(50)-6(1)-9, was the most popular fighter of his era and one of the great sports figures of all time.
but he was a sports star whose significance far surpassed the  world of sports.
his career from 1969 to  1977 was one of the most impressive in boxing history, but it did not earn him  an overwhelming amount of affection from the public.
sullivan seems to have enjoyed drinking and telling stories at least as much as he liked to fight.
i have tried my best to make this an objective list.
either way, he's been one of the sport's biggest stars during an era when boxing has had few enough of them left.
nevertheless, his star has  never really diminished, as was evident at his recent 70th birthday celebration  at themgm grand in las vegas.
for example, the klitschko brothers' fights in germany have the atmosphere of rock concerts and the two are major celebrities both there and in their native ukraine.
with his big may 5 bout with miguel cotto looming and his jail sentence behind  that, it's a tough time to really assess what mayweather's ultimate, all-time  standing might be.
still a young man, de la hoya has already transitioned into a very  successful promotional career and remains among the sport's most visible  figures.
tragically, chavez's furious attack destroyed taylor as an  elite fighter and quite likely precipitated his post-career health problems.
he would have been a very popular fighter, even if he and ali had never crossed paths.
he was among the last boxing stars to build up a fanbase through fighting on network television.
prior to 2004, jones' only career loss had been a disqualification against  montell griffin.
this was a crucial development  in the evolution of the united states into a more legitimately multicultural  society.
he is regarded by many  boxing historians and writers as the top light heavyweight of all time, and  boxrec.com has him no. 1 on their all-timepound-for-pound rankings.
"the old mongoose" archie moore, 185(131)-23(7)-10, had a career that lasted for nearly 30 years, from 1935 to 1963.
in 1997,international boxing digest ranked him as the top pound-for-pound fighter of all time.
he sold soft drinks and chatted with oprah and meanwhile beat all-time  great champions like wilfred benitez, thomas hearns, robert duran and marvin  hagler.
he sold soft drinks and chatted with oprah and meanwhile beat all-time great champions like wilfred benitez, thomas hearns, robert duran and marvin hagler.
in recent years, tyson has seemed to turn a corner in his public persona.
at the height of his career, he was among the most well-known fighters in the word, simply by virtue of being muhammad ali's greatest rival.
16: julio cesar chavez julio cesar chavez, 107(86)-6(4)-2, was among the greatest boxing  attractions of the 1980's and perhaps the greatest mexican champion of all  time.
when he refused induction into the military during the vietnam war he was stripped of his title and threatened with jail time.
he became a pariah to much of the mainstream media, but also a hero that transcended sports to a generation of young people.
ali has famously suffered from parkinson's disease in his retirement years,  slowing down his ability to lead a public life.
a saturday morning cartoon portrayed his fictional, scooby doo-style adventures.
mayweather has been among  the greatest pay-per-view revenue generators in the sport's history.
as a boxing talent, ward would rank somewhere above a journeyman, though he never won a major world title.
robinson's two-fisted power and slick boxing dazzled crowds at a time when boxing was at its most popular.
his wild popularity was driven by the fact that he so often won with style: up from the canvas to ko archie moore in nine; putting away ezzard charles in eight when he was in danger of losing on cuts; dropping joe walcott dramatically in 13 when trailing far behind on the cards.
iron mike was a street kid handpicked out of reform school by cus d'amato,  to become a world champion.
the crowds at his hall of fame induction last year were large and supportive, and the now middle-aged tyson was visibly moved and unable to finish his speech.
it's no exaggeration to say that de niro's performance in this movie made the bronx bull a cultural icon.
along with sugar ray robinson, he spent the war touring military bases and entertaining his fellow soldiers.
10: sugar ray leonard ray leonard, 36(25)-3(1)-1, exploded onto the american sports world during  the 1976 montreal olympics, when he won a gold medal as part of the most  celebrated u.s. olympic boxing team ever assembled.
along with perhaps pele and michael jordan, he is the most famous athlete of all time.
when he stopped trevor berbick in two rounds for the wbc strap in 1986, he was  the youngest heavyweight champion in history, and still not old enough to  legally buy beer.
this is not a list of my 20 favorite fighters.
sullivan's colorful life is a biopic waiting to happen, if only an actor  can be found in hollywood manly enough to play the great john l. 2: joe louis joe louis ruled the heavyweight division from 1937 to 1949, far longer than  any other man.
i'll make sure they take care of you."
i think the clip i've linked here deserves to be on a short list of the most well-crafted movie scenes in the history of film.
the "manassa mauler" had  a furious and explosive style that thrilled crowds, and a left hook the likes  of which the division would not see again until joe frazier arrive a  half-century later.
the rocky series might be more commercially popular, but i'd be willing to bet that a poll of movie critics and film school graduates would be nearly unanimous in namingraging bull, the story of jake lamotta's turbulent career and life, the greatest boxing movie ever made.
tyson's history of personal and legal problems is too long to detail here.
prior to 2004, jones' only career loss had been a disqualification against montell griffin.
through it all, tyson has maintained a large fanbase.
in his 40's, he served  heroically during world war ii and his restaurant, jack dempsey's, was a new  york city institution for years.
there was a great deal of controversy over whether or not richard steele's stoppage with two seconds left was appropriate.
as a boxing talent, ward would rank somewhere above a journeyman, though he  never won a major world title.
but it was graziano's post-fight career that pushed his popularity into the  mainstream.
jones nevertheless achieved mainstream popularity, taking on acting roles and recording rap albums.
his first fight with joe frazier in 1971 was perhaps the most highly  anticipated sporting event ever.
sullivan's colorful life is a biopic waiting to happen, if only an actor can be found in hollywood manly enough to play the great john l. joe louis ruled the heavyweight division from 1937 to 1949, far longer than any other man.
i've even read interviews where he maintained that  cotto had probably sold more tickets at the garden than muhammad ali.
when he emerged in the late 1930s as a champion, he was passionately  embraced by the african-american community.
if cotto can pull off an upset against floyd mayweather jr. on may 5 of  this year, his popularity will sky rocket.
actual historical importance as a fighter; 4.
stature and fame within the sports world and popular culture of their  own era; 2.
graziano's autobiography,somebody up there likes me, was  the basis for the oscar-winning 1956 movie starring paul newman.
12: joe frazier cameron spencer/getty images this is one of the entries on the list that i anguished over, because i  wonder if i have joe frazier ranked high enough.
ali has famously suffered from parkinson's disease in his retirement years, slowing down his ability to lead a public life.
naturally, there was a tribute to "smokin' joe" during the main card, a moment during which more than a few middle-aged and elderly men shed tears.
but that kind of public animosity is a form of popularity all by itself.
i think the clip i've linked here deserves to be on a short list of the  most well-crafted movie scenes in the history of film.
moore's debut ended up being the peak of his acting career, though he did  landmany more roles on television shows throughout the 1960s and early  70s.
7: jack dempsey jack dempsey, 61(50)-6(1)-9, was the most popular fighter of his era and  one of the great sports figures of all time.
i've selected  fighters from the late 1800s through the present, but fighters from the 1970s,  '80s and '90s are heavily represented.
rocky graziano born and raised on new york city's lower east side during the years when it  was a violent ghetto,rocky graziano, 67(52)-10(3)-6, overcame a misspent youth  and stints in reform school and jail to become a world middleweight champion  and one of the hardest punchers to ever fight in the 160-pound division.
he had studied elocution and drama at boston  college briefly before dropping out and used the skills he had acquired when he  frequently performed on the stage.
against greg haugen in mexico city, chavez fought in front of over 130,000 fans.
his was among the most meteoric rises in the history of american society, let alone sports or boxing.
however, i am a 41-year-old american fan and that shows.
of course it's no secret that ward's spot on this list was secured thanks to mark wahlberg's portrayal of him in the 2010 biopicthe fighter.
in the late 1940's he fought a classic three-fight series with tony zale.
his popularity was based upon the ferocious way  he fought—particularly his brutal body attacks, which stood in stark  contrast to his calm and soft-spoken demeanor.
according to nat fleisher's seminal bookthe heavyweights,sullivan capped off a tour of england by meeting with the king and told him, "look me up if you're ever in boston.
but it was graziano's post-fight career that pushed his popularity into the mainstream.
jones had already become well known to american sports fans prior to the 1988 seoul olympics, in which he was considered a sure bet for gold.
he  was among the last boxing stars to build up a fanbase through fighting on  network television.
against hitler's favorite, the "brown bomber" became "our guy" for an entire nation still struggling, and very often failing, to overcome an extremely racist legacy.
his charismatic personality and propensity for knocking out much larger opponents won him legions of fans who don't traditionally pay much attention to the sport.
last december i covered cotto's rematch against antonio margarito in the  garden, so i can report firsthand that perhaps the most hallowed venue in  boxing history is unquestionably junito's house.
at a time when the boxing game was only marginally even legal in most parts  of the united states, sullivan earned the largest parts of his fortune touring  and putting on exhibitions.
to me, oscar de la hoya, 39(30)-6(2), sometimes seems like the last great american boxing star, an olympic gold medal hero enthusiastically embraced by the public from the very start of his career.
since may of 2004, roy jones jr. 55(40)-8(4), has compiled a 6-7 record and the only notable opponent he has beaten was a smaller, past-his-prime felix trinidad.
20: roy jones jr. ethan miller/getty images since may of 2004, roy jones jr. 55(40)-8(4), has compiled a 6-7  record and the only notable opponent he has beaten was a smaller,  past-his-prime felix trinidad.
5: mike tyson mike tyson exploded into american pop culture as an teenage phenomenon.
chavez's last-second, come-from-behind knockout of meldrick taylor was the ring's fight of the year for 1990 and was later selected as fight of the decade.
jones had already become well known to american sports fans prior to the  1988 seoul olympics, in which he was considered a sure bet for gold.
jake lamotta, 83(30)-19(4)-4, was a world champion and an extremely popular  fighter during his career, at a time when boxing stood alongside baseball as  the nation's most popular sport.
his  charismatic personality and propensity for knocking out much larger opponents  won him legions of fans who don't traditionally pay much attention to the  sport.
his career from 1969 to 1977 was one of the most impressive in boxing history, but it did not earn him an overwhelming amount of affection from the public.
with his big may 5 bout with miguel cotto looming and his jail sentence behind that, it's a tough time to really assess what mayweather's ultimate, all-time standing might be.
naturally, there was a tribute to "smokin' joe" during the main  card, a moment during which more than a few middle-aged and elderly men shed  tears.
but inraging bull, robert de niro did for lamotta what marky mark did for micky ward, except on steroids.
15: jake lamotta the rocky series might be more commercially popular, but i'd be  willing to bet that a poll of movie critics and film school graduates would be  nearly unanimous in namingraging bull, the story of jake lamotta's  turbulent career and life, the greatest boxing movie ever made.
his wild popularity was driven by the fact  that he so often won with style: up from the canvas to ko archie moore in nine;  putting away ezzard charles in eight when he was in danger of losing on cuts;  dropping joe walcott dramatically in 13 when trailing far behind on the cards.
at only 46 years of age, tyson's popularity appears set to grow.
in the 1960s, ali became a symbol of the cultural rebellion that was  sweeping the nation and the world.
this article 5 things needed to make pacquiao vs. mayweather happen never-too-early preview of cotto v. mayweather greatest teams ever bracket or sign up to post a  comment post comment
against greg haugen in mexico city, chavez fought in front of over 130,000  fans.
when he upset michael moorer for the heavyweight title in 1994, he became a hero to just about every middle-aged man in america.
he has an extremely passionate fanbase comprised of his fellow puerto ricans but is swelled by fans from every background who admire his fighting style and his determined character.
he is one of the two top pay-per-view earners in the sport.
john l. sullivan was the first boxing champion of the gloved era and arguably the first american sports superstar ever.
he is regarded by many boxing historians and writers as the top light heavyweight of all time, and boxrec.com has him no. 1 on their all-timepound-for-pound rankings.
last december i covered cotto's rematch against antonio margarito in the garden, so i can report firsthand that perhaps the most hallowed venue in boxing history is unquestionably junito's house.
he has an extremely passionate fanbase comprised of his fellow  puerto ricans but is swelled by fans from every background who admire his  fighting style and his determined character.
floyd mayweather jr. jeff gross/getty images if this was a list of most disliked fighters, floyd mayweather jr,  42(26)-0, could very well be at the top of it.
it's no exaggeration to say that de niro's performance in this movie
a saturday morning cartoon portrayed his  fictional, scooby doo-style adventures.
frazier died tragically last november, marking a very sad day for boxing fans everywhere.
it's not too radically  far from the actualfinish, either.
manny pacquiao mike lawrie/getty images the pacman's popularity is an explosive phenomenon that is still happening,  so any attempt to evaluate it right now can do no more than provide a temporary  snapshot.
when he emerged in the late 1930s as a champion, he was passionately embraced by the african-american community.
when a fan  shouted "we love you mike," the crowd broke into applause.
advertisement we'd like to send you the most entertaining boxing articles, videos, and podcasts from around the web.
according to nat fleisher's seminal bookthe  heavyweights,sullivan capped off a tour of england by meeting with the  king and told him, "look me up if you're ever in boston.
the crowds at his  hall of fame induction last year were large and supportive, and the now  middle-aged tyson was visibly moved and unable to finish his speech.
i've selected fighters from the late 1800s through the present, but fighters from the 1970s, '80s and '90s are heavily represented.
when he upset michael moorer for the heavyweight title  in 1994, he became a hero to just about every middle-aged man in america.
this eight-year stretch of sub-mediocrity has  somewhat obscured the fact that he was the most talented boxer of his  generation, and one of the top few pound-for-pound fighters of the past 40  years.
jones' brilliant pro career unfortunately coincided with an era when boxing as a sport was falling in popularity with the american public.
if you doubt me, spend a little time browsing the bleacher report readers' comment section.
begin slideshow keep reading flag props  (0) this article is a duplicate offensive plagiarized what is the duplicate article?