april 19, 1991, foreman faced evander holyfield for the heavyweight  championship of the world.
this bout erased doubt in the minds of many of foreman's critics.
foreman became a minister and began to preach.
foreman defeated  'smokin joe' once more in the fifth round.
he  knocked frazier to the canvas six times before a second round knockout, which  earned him the heavyweight championship of the world.
he currently has a professional record of 69-3, 65  ko's.
as a young kid, he  was always into trouble.
august 4, 1970, in his first headline bout, foreman faced the veteran slugger, george chuvalo.
october 30, 1974, foreman was challenged by muhammad ali in a bout tagged 'the rumble in the jungle'.
march 9, 1987, after a ten year absence from the ring, foreman began his comeback by defeating steve zouski in the fourth round.
january 15, 1987, foreman challenged jerry cooney in a bout better known as "the preacher and the puncher".
october 30, 1974, foreman was challenged by muhammad ali in a bout tagged  'the rumble in the jungle'.
he lost the first bout of his professional career.
search home > about george foreman about george foreman the man...
he is a great  humanitarian.
this was one of the most exciting bouts of his career.
january 15, 1987, foreman challenged jerry cooney in a bout better known as  "the preacher and the puncher".
in this bout, foreman sent cooney to  the canvas twice in the second round before finishing with a powerful right  cross at 1:57 of the second round.
the george foreman of today is not a selfish george.
he supports many charities and gives of himself to the youth of  today.
he is very active in the community and he operates a youth center in houston, texas, which was designed to help keep kids off the streets.
the bout was coined "the battle of the ages".
foreman defeated 'smokin joe' once more in the fifth round.
both fighters were knocked to the canvas twice, but foreman was victorious in the fourth round kayo.
april 19, 1991, foreman faced evander holyfield for the heavyweight championship of the world.
since the 'smokin joe' rematch, foreman had a series of four consecutive  ko's, and was on the edge of getting another title shot, when he was defeated  by jimmy young in san juan, puerto rico on march 17, 1977, which was his last  fight for 10 years.
the highlights of his boxing career
since the 'smokin joe' rematch, foreman had a series of four consecutive ko's, and was on the edge of getting another title shot, when he was defeated by jimmy young in san juan, puerto rico on march 17, 1977, which was his last fight for 10 years.
today, george foreman is still very active in the boxing profession.
after defeating chuvalo, he increased his record to  22-0, 19 ko's. january 22, 1973, foreman faced joe frazier for the heavyweight title.
foreman faced adilson rodriguez, his first ranked contender  since his comeback.
he proved to everyone of all ages that one should never give up no  matter what age.
he has received so many awards that it is impossible to name all of them.
he turned his critics into fans and made his fans more loyal  than ever.
he is very active in the community  and he operates a youth center in houston, texas, which was designed to help  keep kids off the streets.
george foreman participates in many charity events.
august 4, 1970, in his first headline bout, foreman faced the veteran  slugger, george chuvalo.
this bout will go down in history as one of the  greatest championship bout of all times.
one of  the counselors noticed that he was always into fights so he decided that george  should put all of his energy into something positive.
in this bout, foreman sent cooney to the canvas twice in the second round before finishing with a powerful right cross at 1:57 of the second round.
this bout will go down in history as one of the greatest championship bout of all times.
he currently has a professional record of 69-3, 65 ko's.
january 24, 1976, foreman defeated ron lyle in his first serious bout since  losing the title to ali in 1974.
after defeating chuvalo, he increased his record to 22-0, 19 ko's. january 22, 1973, foreman faced joe frazier for the heavyweight title.
march 9, 1987, after a ten year absence from the ring, foreman began his  comeback by defeating steve zouski in the fourth round.
although foreman, did not regain his title, he came out a winner.
he proved to everyone of all ages that one should never give up no matter what age.
live in style always!
he joined the job corp, and his life changed.
this started his boxing  career.
he turned his critics into fans and made his fans more loyal than ever.
the highlights of his boxing career in 1968, george foreman was awarded the gold medal for boxing in the olympic games.
he defeated the brazilian slugger with a left hook in round  two.
this was one of the most exciting bouts of his  career.
both fighters were knocked to the canvas twice, but foreman was  victorious in the fourth round kayo.
the bout was coined "the battle  of the ages".
january 24, 1976, foreman defeated ron lyle in his first serious bout since losing the title to ali in 1974.
he  grew up on the mean streets of houston's fifth ward area.
he knocked frazier to the canvas six times before a second round knockout, which earned him the heavyweight championship of the world.
in 1968, george foreman was awarded the gold medal for boxing in the  olympic games.
some of his favorite charities are: the miami project to cure paralysis aids.
foreman faced adilson rodriguez, his first ranked contender since his comeback.
he supports many charities and gives of himself to the youth of today.
foundation stone soup kitchen texas southern university endowed scholarship fund horatio alger association scholarship fund the george foreman youth community development center grandma nancy's daycare center
he is  hailed as one of the greatest boxers ever.
he is a great humanitarian.
he defeated the brazilian slugger with a left hook in round two.
although foreman, did not regain his title, he came out a  winner.
george e. foreman  was born to nancy and j.d. foreman on january 10, 1949 in marshal, texas.
he is hailed as one of the greatest boxers ever.
june 15, 1976, foreman had a rematch with joe frazier.