your positive contribution to this world will be seen for thousands of years to come.
my  father is ill with alzhimers disease.
after waiting a lifetime, finally meeting muhammad ali author: bill miller
after the commencement, there was a short break while everyone filed out of the huge tent.
......... number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
my brother ali, i hope to meet you in person one day.
you are  one of my biggest role model right next to my parents.
for the next three hours, i watched ali meet and  greet his fans.
my son wanted to become  a professional fighter karate, but it did and now disabled until we do not care  about anyone.
we went back and he gave her his autograph.
as famous as he is, he is still a man of the  people.
for the sake  of the allah (st) mercy and merciful - help me to the coach - disabled!!!
also i continue to be sabotaged from employment and name slandered across the counties of orange, los angeles and inland empire.
it has been my dream to meet my ideal brother  ali,and i hope inshaallah i will.
miller number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) irsyifa number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) belarbi number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) ur-rehman awan number  of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) nazeri number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) akinmayowa number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) idrisov number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) cryer number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) kor number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%) iwami number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
to you drawn coach - disabled from chechnya,  which the disease resides in france (year-round needs a warm maritime climate).
he arrived with no limo, no fancy  entourage.
i know so many people will achive greater height from the  contribution of these noble men.
(note: this  notice does not apply to those news items already copyrighted and received  through wire services or other media.)
it was finally my turn, and i was both afraid and in awe.
in august of 1988, i'm attending an fop corn roast with my dad.
cindy number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
mil102@hotmail.com number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%)
number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%) salam alikom ali moi artist pentre jeu voue disini toi pour  toi envoi moi un photo number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%)
thanks for all you do ali, you are still the greatest!!!!
number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
it was clear that ali wanted to spend more  time with the people who had had come to see him.
i know so many people will achive greater height from the contribution of these noble men.
i am going to change the world through service and dedicate my life to serving others...but my one hope today is to meet muhammad ali.
ali then became my role model, i bought the film, put posters of him in my room, made a movie about him for a school project.
so on dec. 1, my wife laurie and i arrived at the hueman bookstore in new york’s harlem.
afterward, i realized that when you look  into ali’s eyes, you are looking into his soul.
there is a gentleness and kindness to him that is unmistakable.
now they can call me 'the doctor'."
the "islam for non-muslams" pamphlet he gave me will always be cherished.
i captained both my school and county at rugby and football...
brother, i hope that this time, my appeal will give your hands and you do so, as in this case should go my brother in the faith of muhammad ali which i fought and won in his youth as he and insha allah.
for the person who give this information to m. ali : you  should tell him the truth!
i spoke to more than 1,000 firms and companies in the world to help me, but i refused to wisdom, which is what is still important and could not believe it when i write, that if they refuse me, allah (st) - god will punish them because you can not deny coach - disabled in a world that so many years risking his life and brings free karate teaches children and young people and wherever possible helps seriously ill children in preparations for the treatment of the world and always at least the possibility of sharing with them their pensions .
and im the greatest of all times, i want a match with him but he is too ugly  and old for this , i repeat too ugly and old, so send that sucker my personal  request that i hate him
you are a great human being.
and i hope very much that it's you and help my brother - insha allah.
i was unaware at the time but a local hobby photographer got the shot of her wrapping her tiny arms around his neck!
i still have the picture some 40 years later and will treasure it forever!!!
my younger sister and i attended a muslim  daycare center.
and i swear by allah (st), it is true.
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
thank you mr ali for a most  wonderful memory and a very happy birthdayto you !
i know he has had a tough time the past few years with  his illness
all my attempts to find the world of noble people, who would help  me and my family no one was found, not even a single muslim has responded and  now brother you're my last hope and i know brother, that you help me, for you
my husband roy and young daughter lindsey and myself went to the boxing hall of fame back in 1990.
your still pretty muhammad
jrcumm02 number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) thebigunit93@hotmail.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) leongoltsman@gmail.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) www.focusinlife.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) jon.robinson@hotmail.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
a little boy handed him a book that he had done in crayon entitled  "the greatest," and you could see by the glint in his eye that ali  was touched by the boy’s effort.
now at last in 2009 i got a elegant tatoo depicting the greatest, mr ali himself.
muhammad ali had such a huge impact on me as a young man growing up during the turmoil of the 60's and 70's.
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) chamcoart@yahoo.fr number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) mehboob_awan2001@yahoo.com number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%) ahmad.s.nazeri@gmail.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) noahakin8000@yahoo.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
i had no idea of what she was up to on the day when she initially invited me to be her escort for the day, but upon reading on the invitation that muhammad ali would be one of the honorees, i immediately said "yes!"
number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) “struggle for  freedom, rights, privacy & justice”
on the 31st may , i was involved in a freak accident, where on walking to get my sunday paper, an elderly gentleman lost control of his jaguar car and mounted the sidewalk and crushed me against a wall, where with very serious leg injuries i was trapped for over 30 minutes untill be released by the fire dept and rushed to hospital.
it has been my dream to meet my ideal brother ali,and i hope inshaallah i will.
i would love to meet the man of whom my  father still holds memories.
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) i remember as a kid when kids always called me muhammad ali because my name was mohammad and i got fed up with it because i thought they were teasing me
my grandmother went to sit with old friends nearby.
it was thanks to listening and watching you fight and talk that pushed me to my limits and made me fight against the odds, so here weare again...you saving me and me sending the gift of faith and hope to you my dear dear gentleman...
dear brother muhammad ali, if you can - help me  for the sake of allah (st).
on easter sunday, 1976 my family and i  were headed to 6flags in virginia and as always, i had my camera with me.
afterward, i realized that when you look into ali’s eyes, you are looking into his soul.
jonathan robinson number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) life time ambition on the 27th of august at brittania stadium in stoke on trent england, i met muhammad ali.
carparkman@hotmail.com number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) mrgdt820@aol.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) rune_tore@hotmail.com number  of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) samemmer2000@yahoo.com number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) sheikh_dollars@yahoo.com number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) bimiller@cisco.com number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
bill number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) muhammad number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) chmsou number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
he asked me if i wanted an autograph.
due to illegal acts displayed by various orange county (california) law enforcement, currently my metro cell telephone (313-740-5268) and e-mail services are illegally monitored and automobiles are gps captured for tracking purposes.
people who  mistook the tv image for real missed out.
inside was the  "greatest of all time."
i was repeatedly told that i would never amount to anything.
his confidence in himself and his faith would not let anyone or anything stop him from fulfilling his destiny.
ali has made me believe in myself, and my ability.
ali, we love you we  adore you.
later that day i thought it  would be nice if she could get his autograph.
for the next three hours, i watched ali meet and greet his fans.
i thought not only is he the greatest
i still have the picture some 40 years later and will  treasure it forever!!!
as well as having grace,style,speed,beauty in the ring,he  also has all these plus more outside the ropes.
in august of 1988, i'm attending an fop corn roast with my  dad.
and muhammad ali seems to know that better than anyone.
miller number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) irsyifa number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
and that’s why i wanted to meet muhammad ali, so i  could thank him personally.
we hitchhiked from ill to new york city for the fight - quite an adventure as we were thrown off the tollways twice by state troopers and gained the largest segment of our trip from an awol soldier in a stolen vehicle.
i spoke to more than 1,000 firms and companies in the  world to help me, but i refused to wisdom, which is what is still important and  could not believe it when i write, that if they refuse me, allah (st) - god  will punish them because you can not deny coach - disabled in a world that so  many years risking his life and brings free karate teaches children and young  people and wherever possible helps seriously ill children in preparations for  the treatment of the world and always at least the possibility of sharing with  them their pensions .
i ask him, "how's it  goin' champ?"
, so if u wanna find happiness jus go to that old suker and tell him that there is someone who can beat him really bad, smoking joe was scared, foreman was scared, everyone was scared , im not!!!
during his exile from sports, he continued to  work with the poor and less privileged, even though his future was in serious  jeopardy.
e-mail adress: shihanidrisov@mail.com
to end our very special day he was put into a convertable car to ride in the parade and we were standing in line watching him go by when i yelled to him your still pretty muhammad and he yelled back your pretty too, then he noticed my daughter by my side again!
manufacfuring which i arrange and gone for the traning in kano 4 good 2 years  and hope to have the assistance in any way possible i look forward to hear from  you as soon as possible yours faithfully usman shehu ahmed.
laurie kept saying that ali kept looking back at me  and glaring.
holmes number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) richards number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) holden number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
but i do remember how he was so loved by those around him and what a great presence he had with the whole audeince at the time.
record number: merlin_1452489 number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
i would agree — the human race.
chehnah number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) goltsman number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) frewin number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) robinson number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) plant number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) tennessee number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
copyright 2004, journal sentinel inc.
i have started boxing inspired by muhammad ali boxing style and have honed my skills and movements trying to do what hevused to inthe ring.
i recognized him instantly, i  think i must have been the first.
i  had no idea of what she was up to on the day when she initially invited me to  be her escort for the day, but upon reading on the invitation that muhammad ali  would be one of the honorees, i immediately said "yes!"
him  gave a disability but did not give pension( we immigrants and us can do  anything ) and we submitted to the tribunal, but the result is still unknown,  and when it is also unknown, because we have a social advocate, and to hire a  lawyer in our normal no money.
"i know where i'm going and i know the truth and i don't have to be what you want me to be.
his wife then showed up and tried to persuade him that it was time to go.
i stood quietly and took it all in.
first i know ali from my brother, and the i search  on youtube, and i just see the greatest is playing.
copyright 2004, journal sentinel  inc.
anyway i guess  you can see how much ali meant to us and how to this day i continue to admire  this true treasure and unique american hero.
he was speaking at oswego state college and my father was huge fan of his and he toook me with him to hear him talk.
truly your biggest fan, harman yonis number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) muhammmad ali is ugly , i repeat muhammad is ugly, i know nobody is like him besides me i repeat " besides me" , im 21 yrs old , im more faster , im handsome and im the greatest of all times, i want a match with him but he is too ugly and old for this , i repeat too ugly and old, so send that sucker my personal request that i hate him
he held and kissed every baby and child with no regard for age or race.
every day i wake up looking at my hero  and thinking that he can do the impossible then i can.
i love my  brother muhammad ali from my childhood i watched his live fights with joe  frazier,ken norton,george forman,leon spinks and larry holmes on tv.
i was abused by my stepfather to the point that i was too badly bruised to attend school.
brave guy that i am, and i don't remember much, it is him!!!
but with  all my good fortune, i have never forgotten my roots and how i got to this  point in my life.
he inspires me to be myself and to be a good person and to this day he is still my hero number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
a little boy handed him a book that he had done in crayon entitled "the greatest," and you could see by the glint in his eye that ali was touched by the boy’s effort.
after collecting the local newspaper accounts the following day, i created a very nice framed display of the glove, pen, invitations and articles, and it remains one of my most prized possessions to this day and a beautiful memento of one of the most incredible days of my life.
there is a gentleness and kindness to  him that is unmistakable.
usman shehu number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
singh number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%)
as we drove through our neighborhood that early morning, which bordered the sheraton hotel in landover maryland, i noticed a group of very large men and in the ceter of the group was muhammand ali.
ruslan number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) bradie number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%)
it would be a memory of a life time  to get a chance to meet with him, just once.
number  of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) assalamu alaikum, yaa mohammad, i am from yola the adamawa  state in nigeria and as your muslim brother i am looking for assistance in my  business and ready 2 sent 2 you my business propursal to open an ice block
i remember march 8, 1971, the ali/frazieri fight at madison square garden, i was 11 years old.
my father is ill with alzhimers disease.
regards,  mehboob awan.
but mostly, i  wanted to tell him: "thank you."
in my mind, i would imagine that i was just like ali.
on the second day of my entire face was bruised (as in my opponent ), body ached, and we with him tuscany dismantling the magistrate, but i was happy because i knew that i had won the hardest fight of his life, because iovercame in himself defended his weaknesses and your name in part from ridicule, because if i would have lost this fight, i and my brothers chechens - the muslims would lose face
but with all my good fortune, i have never forgotten my roots and how i got to this point in my life.
so on dec. 1, my wife laurie and i arrived at the  hueman bookstore in new york’s harlem.
he took the drawing from her and thanked her.
today, i am 46 years old and living a life i could only have dreamed of 25 years ago.
i wondered what i would say to ali after all of  these years of wanting so desperately to meet my childhood hero.
i yelled for my  father to stop the car its ali and before the car could stop, my brothers and i  had the doors open and were running towards ali.
my daughter was 5 at the time.
at that time in my life, i  desperately needed some inspiration and something or someone to believe in.
now at last in 2009 i got a elegant tatoo depicting
i have recently finished my undergraduate education at the university of louisville, and i am searching to take up my masters in architecture, i plan on visiting the center very soon.
she then told me that he was a famous boxer.
the  honorees were already inside, with a swarm of people around ali, as you'd  expect.
you came and your  present demanded all attention you had three beautiful woman with you
he seemed to understand what it meant to me to meet him.
usman shehu number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
later on i  became boxer i played boxing.
i first met the champ in 76 in landover, md while he was training at the sheraton for match w/ jimmy young.
because on that day, i met muhammad ali.
thanks maren this is personally post only not for a website!
i am looking for sponsors around the world for themselves and their activities.
his faith and his principles were truly inspiring, especially for  those of us who needed something or someone to believe in.
mike, my brother, i lost everything in this life  because of two wars in chechnya: the mother and many relatives and friends whom  i could not even last farewell.
i was abused by my stepfather to the point that i was  too badly bruised to attend school.
i no one helped me and always a refusal, even when it was about saving the lives of children - disabled.
anyway i guess you can see how much ali meant to us and how to this day i continue to admire this true treasure and unique american hero.
no number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
and i told her that this kid jus called me muhammad ali.
every day i wake up looking at my hero and thinking that he can do the impossible then i can.
the life  of ali made me have more confidence in myself and better self esteem.
with hope and respect for coach - disabled, volunteer ruslan idrisov - official representative (volunteer like all 30 years)
i'm free to be what i want" - muhammad ali number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) mprentice0001@yahoo.com number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) jrcumm02 number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) thebigunit93@hotmail.com number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%) leongoltsman@gmail.com number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) www.focusinlife.com number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) jon.robinson@hotmail.com number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%)
ahmed number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%)
i sincerely hope that before one of us  leaves this life that goal will be met.
by  spreading the word through all the social networks i can set up, i also  treasure my time on the ali centre website, and when i next get some wages, i  will join up and treat myself to a t- shirt and baseball cap...i'm 49 but feel  24...dear muhammad your strength and courage against the odds have most  probably saved my life more than once....
i wondered what i would say to ali after all of these years of wanting so desperately to meet my childhood hero.
ahmad.s.nazeri@gmail.com number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) noahakin8000@yahoo.com number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) shihanidrisov@mail.com number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) bradiecryer@yahoo.com
ali nodded, gave me another hug and  smiled.
yes number of responses38  percentage of responses(97%)
his faith and his principles were truly inspiring, especially for those of us who needed something or someone to believe in.
by spreading the word through all the social networks i can set up, i also treasure my time on the ali centre website, and when i next get some wages, i will join up and treat myself to a t- shirt and baseball cap...i'm 49 but feel 24...dear muhammad your strength and courage against the odds have most probably saved my life more than once....
he then stepped over and gave me a big hug as well.
dear brother, i appeal to the many years of muslim rulers: saudi  arabia, brunei, kuwait, united arab emirates, bahrain, qatar, oman, jordan,  malaysia, but my letters to them, do not get - they just throw in their  environment in the dustbin - although i'll forgive them for the sake of allah  (st) to transfer my appeal recipients.
irsyifa.a@gmail.com
you are a true great ali, all the best.
it would be a memory of a life time to get a chance to meet with him, just once.
he took special time with the elderly and especially young  children.
gailan hassan yonis number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
it comes in only behind my wedding day 18 years ago and the birth days of my three children.
muhammad ali had such a huge impact on me  as a young man growing up during the turmoil of the 60's and 70's.
my dad  took me to see muhammad when i was approximately 7 years old; during the time  he was banned from boxing because of his courageous stance on the war.
he told his security to bring her to sit with him in the  convertable for a few min it was a glorious day and she still talks of it, and  i still remember the glimmer in his eye and the size of his hand , and the  feeling that my hand was swallowed in his.
then i saw pictures of joe frazier, i suddenly  realized, that the real winner got robbed of the decision.
i send this little story 17 january just on mr alis birthday and i will say congratulations to you mr ali number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
we  went back and he gave her his autograph.
and you can not otherwise - because you're muhammad ali
my dad took me to see muhammad when i was approximately 7 years old; during the time he was banned from boxing because of his courageous stance on the war.
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) july 31,1977 muhammed ali came to  baltimore as a favor to help raise money for a local women, who had gotten  scholorships for poor gifted black children... to the best private schools ,  before there were any government programs.
one of my ambitions in life is to but touch him, to be in his awesome presence and aura.
(note: this notice does not apply to those news items  already copyrighted and received through wire services or other media.)
i came to france with his family to survive the  most (frequent pulmonary hemoptysis threatened my life) and that children could  have a future, and we are here to defeat the contrary.
i'm free to be what i want" -  muhammad ali number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
she'd received her  annual invitation to the graduation ceremony, as well as an invitation to the  post-commencement private reception for the six honorary degree recipients.
while we were waiting outside the bookstore for ali’s arrival, we noticed a small church in a run-down building across the street.
expand far out of the ring transending life and one thing my hero is allah my  bloodline flows through your vein a boo ba ya boom ba ya rumble young man  rumble once again g.o.a.t.
first name: linda number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) linda number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
you socked me in the face mr ali number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
but i will know, if muhammad get this post.
after the speech was over he was very gracious and let me on stage so my dad could take a picture of me with him.
like most young men, what initially impressed me was his great fighting ability and the heart he displayed in the ring.
africa is your home and africans adore you.
i then fought many times in my life defending justice, walking on knives, going against the crowd, against the authorities (1983 anti-soviet hunger strike 35 days) has passed two of the war, went to the bullets and bombs, and choked with his own blood, but never ever allah (st ) did not give me a reason to show their weakness and cowardice to show and when i did is bad, i think this fight
and i hope he will be able to live the rest of his life like he always has with dignity and greatness.
it has allways been a lifelong  ambition to meet the great man,shake his hand,hug him,ask ali everything!!!one  day prehaps,my dream might come true.
and as i was then and this is  difficult memory takes me back to life.
his life has helped me believe firmly that one shall never give up and keep fighting, i have recently named my little son muhammad ali aniba and i am just so proud of that.
recently iwas challenged to share this story .
manufacfuring which i arrange and gone for the traning in kano 4 good 2 years and hope to have the assistance in any way possible i look forward to hear from you as soon as possible yours faithfully usman shehu ahmed.
it was the same year that the movie  came out.
if you  wish to know something about your contact 18.06.63 please ask me; i will try to  find out the truth.
mike, my brother, i lost everything in this life because of two wars in chechnya: the mother and many relatives and friends whom i could not even last farewell.
later that day i thought it would be nice if she  could get his autograph.
at that very moment, i knew exactly what i would do with that once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.
i remember crying, after i saw pictures of his swollen jaw.
my grandmother, miriam robinson, was on the board of overseers at the school at that time, after many years there as an english professor.
i heard someone say once that ali was a credit to his race.
i am also grateful to ali whose legacy for pragmatism, lack of fear and grace has affected the perception of blak people world wide.
i and my family not nor home nor health, nor  the possibility of a normal life, and for my eldest son became disabled after a  head injury in 2009 that his back at work cowardly attacked the french brass  knuckles addicts who have failed deal with him face to face and he lay 15 days  in a coma, but the will of allah (st) survived, but not fully recovered.
for the person who give this information to m. ali : you should tell him the truth!
thank you for your time and  consideration!!
on easter sunday, 1976 my family and i were headed to 6flags in virginia and as always, i had my camera with me.
i remember crying, after i  saw pictures of his swollen jaw.
my daughter had  drawn him a cute litte pencil sketch of two boxers and one was sweating heart  shaped beads of sweat, my daughter lindsey broke free from us and ran to him  with her precious drawing in hand,, the secruity pushed her back but when  muhammand saw what was happening he took his big hand and wave the secruity  aside, he bent down so gently and hugged her.
copyright (c) 2004, journal sentinel inc.
i am currently working on a paper for one of my classes, but i am procrastinating and watching videos of muhammad ali's poems, fights and interviews.
no number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
don`t lie again like that time; i am in the same  situation so i don t know, if´this post will get the right way and if i  will get the answer.
i remember feeling alot better.
in shock, i said to my dad...
some 4 years ago i had lost my way working too hard , losing my family and children, being very selfish...
in a complicated world, love is still the only thing anybody really needs.
after serving two years, i came home, opened the  first section of karate in chechnya, and since then, and began to teach their  students free karate and to the extent possible to help children - the disabled  and since i was born and in my cherished dream.
during his exile from sports, he continued to work with the poor and less privileged, even though his future was in serious jeopardy.
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) erfranc@verizon.net number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) mikeeholmes1@hotmail.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) gary-richards@hotmail.co.uk number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) dholden2@twcny.rr.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) jkrejci1958@sbcglobal.net number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) mprentice0001@yahoo.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
that is what happened to him and we fought without gloves.
from all  the brash bravado, he still deeply cherished his fans and cared and loved all  of humanity.
singh number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
some of the only memories he has are those of "horse playing" with the greatest in the hallways, and bathrooms of central high school.
number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
growing up in the 1960s and 70s, i'd been following ali's career since i  was a kid, and always had a great admiration for not only his accomplishments  in the ring, but also his humanitarian and ambassador work outside the ring.
so he began play  box to ease my nervousness and then hugged me again and smiled.
but ali risked everything because of his  belief that the war in vietnam was wrong and he was willing to stake that  belief against fame and money.
this is personally post only not for a website!
to say it touched me would not give the moment justice.
because of the illegal acts displayed i have no freedom, rights or privacy and continue suffering 7+years
a few years later, i was lucky enough to have his picture taken holding my 18 month old son.
as time passed, i still heard about him and as a kid i always asked  myself if he was a muslim just like me.
i would just like to say "thank  you" to muhammad ali.
i was unaware at the time but a  local hobby photographer got the shot of her wrapping her tiny arms around his  neck!
ali was training for the shavers fight,but when i shared  the story and that children were involved i was given access to mahummad.
canastatota ny  is our home town.
where does the wonderful  muhammad ali come into all of this....
assalamu alaykum  warahmatullahi wabarakatuh!!!
thank you mr ali for a most wonderful memory and a very happy birthdayto you !
i stayed in the sport for three years  until a family move forced me to quit.
laurie kept saying that ali kept looking back at me and glaring.
due to illegal acts displayed by  various orange county (california) law enforcement, currently my metro cell  telephone (313-740-5268) and e-mail services are illegally monitored and  automobiles are gps captured for tracking purposes.
i would love to meet the man of whom my father still holds memories.
thanks number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
inside was the "greatest of all time."
one of my wish before i leave this planet would be to meet with a man who i looked upon to fight my fears and to become a strong and fearless fighter with an unbreakable spirit.
mehboob number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) ahmad number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) noah akinmayowa number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
from all the brash bravado, he still deeply cherished his fans and cared and loved all of humanity.
frewin number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) robinson number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) plant number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) tennessee number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
she started to ask me how it went, but when she saw how much i was visibly shaking, she said: "honey you'd better sit down!"
but mostly, i wanted to tell him: "thank you."
i was about 9 years old  and lived in kansas city, missouri.
i soon found out that he was and was proud and in 2007 wen i was in year 8
after the  speech was over he was very gracious and let me on stage so my dad could take a  picture of me with him.
i have now got hold of a copy of 'more than  a hero' by hana ali...this too i cherish..
i finally have a place to  display my auto'ed gloves and si's.
he arrived with no limo, no fancy entourage.
i immediately felt a 'buzz' as i entered the room and made my way in his  direction.
", since that time i  too have grown, grown to admire this man to a point of elevating him to  "worshiped" status!
but when my father took the picture when my brother and i were in front of him my father was so excited to get us in the picture that he cut off the champ in the picture.
my younger sister and i attended a muslim daycare center.
edition: final section:
i was a professional boxer myself for 12 years,so to get to the level ali was at,and to stay a boxing god for as long as he did,is just incredible!!!
with my feet coming off the ground,  i have no recollection of what he said in return, but he took the glove and  marker from me, signed it "muhammad ali 5-28-94" and handed both back  to me as i looked into his eyes and shook his hand again, saying "thank  you very much".
i look upto ali as an inspiration to make the most of my life and to help others, whom have low self esteem, or issues that have impacted on their lives.
so my wife began explaining to ali’s assistant kim that i had written to him three years ago, and that he had called me in response to my letter.
i stared so hard that  you came over to our table and did a magic trick with your thumb you pulled a  piece of matrial from your thumb
recently  iwas challenged to share this story .
http://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=189773334404336 see photos, videos and  notes section).
"that's  muhammad ali, isn't it?"
and those items are my most prized possesion that now hangs in my family room.
i was not home at the time and how it had bothered me ever since.
at that time in my life, i desperately needed some inspiration and something or someone to believe in.
he was in baltimore on the 29th to speak at a religous function, but had to leave and go to new york on saturday.
never before has anyone united people of all walks of life and instilled  so much hope and confidence like ali.
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) rummble young man rumble, my wings lide with percision that evolves from the flight of the hummingbird you can pollunate the univerise with love and benevolance and sting like a cobra a black mamba due to the intensity of my purpose my distant uncle hugged me as a child and told me that allah always guides his children now i want you to sit ringside uncle and watch your name sake funny that i went to college to become a writer funny
e-mail adress: shihanidrisov@mail.com my data: documents, photos, video here onwww.facebook.com (ruslan idrisov) - http://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=187826231265713 http://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=189773334404336 see photos, videos and notes section).
in "donate now" plan your visit about muhammad ali share your ali story read submitted stories frequently asked questions library & archives educational resources become a member event facilities get involved press info online store about us contact us members legacy campaign modify settings and columns muhammad ali center > about muhammad ali share your ali story respond to this survey actions view: graphical summary 1.
thank you again, david holden, 5315 heidi lane, brewerton, ny 13069 number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
i remember feeling  alot better.
where does the wonderful muhammad ali come into all of this....
he appeared to have a handful of small brochures that he was handing  out.
once the kids were inside, a gmc yukon pulled up and people started to surround it.
ali nodded, gave me another hug and smiled.
not a word  said, but not a word needed.
almost instantly, ali stood up and gave laurie a  huge heartfelt hug.
so needless to say my two  daughters also fell in love with boxing.
austyn number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) ernie number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) mikee number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
my father told me many  stories of joking, and laughing with muhammad ali at central high school.
and i'm helping many charities and good causes (the world food organisation is my favourite !)
so  needless to say my two daughters also fell in love with boxing.
you had the right to be, you were the greatest and you backed it up.
at that very  moment, i knew exactly what i would do with that once-in-a-lifetime  opportunity.
number  of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) maren number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) harman number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) prabhjit number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%)
with my feet coming off the ground, i have no recollection of what he said in return, but he took the glove and marker from me, signed it "muhammad ali 5-28-94" and handed both back to me as i looked into his eyes and shook his hand again, saying "thank you very much".
mil102@hotmail.com number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) jnj-1958@att.net number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
and as a great fan of his bought a ticket with my college roommate to his comeback championship fight with the late great joe frazier in march of 1971.
bimiller@cisco.com number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) irsyifa.a@gmail.com
thank you for all you have done for us god bless you and  your family
i now teach various sports including boxing to  underprivalidged young people, many whom have been involved in crime.
if they ever met you in person, they would see a kind, loving, giving individual who had the time for anyone.
this fight reminded me of 1975 when i served in the army (he played football)
he was in baltimore on the 29th to  speak at a religous function, but had to leave and go to new york on saturday.
don`t lie again like that time; i am in the same situation so i don t know, if´this post will get the right way and if i will get the answer.
but ali risked everything because of his belief that the war in vietnam was wrong and he was willing to stake that belief against fame and money.
milwaukee journal sentinel (wi) december 19, 2004
many people take stands in their life but seldom have to give up everything because of those principles, especially if it involves forfeiting the greatest title in the world, world heavyweight champion.
it will never ever be repeated.
it was finally  my turn, and i was both afraid and in awe.
that inspiration gave me the strength to put myself through college, working two and sometimes three jobs.
first i know ali from my brother, and the i search on youtube, and i just see the greatest is playing.
i sincerely hope that before one of us leaves this life that goal will be met.
struggling for justice number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
canlas number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
iwami number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) aniba number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) jacobs number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) hagenah number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
i am now back home and although  unable to get around without help, i now have my laptop and i'm helping many  charities and good causes (the world food organisation is my favourite !)
i first met the champ in  76 in landover, md while he was training at the sheraton for match w/ jimmy  young.
god bless you all number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) in 1988 while in michigan i located his house and was allowed in by mr.
i am  also grateful to ali whose legacy for pragmatism, lack of fear and grace has  affected the perception of blak people world wide.
i was there having breakfast with my former husband.
for me, that was always ali.
the second coming january 5, 2008 turks and caicos i  train in lousiville where you trained i sat where your bike was stolen, i run  up thestreet that carries our name.
well, despite the fact that my plan would violate  that edict, i reached inside the bag and pulled out a magic marker and a cloth  boxing glove that was my grandfather's from the 1930s and took another step  closer.
rumble young man rumble let's do it again  ps.
and  when the fighting was, many set against you since you were a muslim, and we all  chechens (12) were rooting for you and at this point the dispute who will win  and who i stood up and said that muhammad ali would win and then a my  colleague, an ethnic russian (he was a boxer and champion of the baltic  military district) stood up and said that he was a supporter of joe frazier,  and that if you win, joe frazier, he will fight with me after hanging up.
i grew up  watching boxing and ali on our old black and white tv,as did my husband.
just then, we  heard an announcement that ali would not be signing autographs, but instead  would be handing out brochures which he'd previously signed, entitled  "women in islam".
we approached his limo but it had the windows up and  once again secruity did their job and pushed us aside, as were we walking away
i could not believe i was in  the same room with the greastest of all all all times.
i was a student at the university of lagos and the night was electrifying and we were convinced ali has fulfilled a heroic mission in a continent where he is admired so much.
here i underwent an  emergency operation before being transfered to an specialist hospital, where i  underwent a further 2 operations, one lasting over 10 hours, to reconstruct my  left leg and create skin grafts for both legs....
carparkman@hotmail.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) mrgdt820@aol.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) rune_tore@hotmail.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) samemmer2000@yahoo.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) sheikh_dollars@yahoo.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
e-mail address: nysophia@aol.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) nysophia@aol.com number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%)
during his acceptance speech, he said, to tumultuous applause: "they called me the king; they called me the greatest; they called me the champion.
israel number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) whiteside - gaston number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) dent number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) becker number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) ashlei-ali number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%)
last name: augustine number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
and what a proud moment it was i would to say thank you to him and his family persnally, god bless you all the photo with you takes pride of place in my home, and hope that one day we can come to the ali centre your faithfully mr warren j plant and family number of responses1
growing up in the 1960s and 70s, i'd been following ali's career since i was a kid, and always had a great admiration for not only his accomplishments in the ring, but also his humanitarian and ambassador work outside the ring.
i watched the film and was so amazed about why he was so great, i started researching on him and he then lifted me up.
you came and your present demanded all attention you had three beautiful woman with you
once the kids were inside, a  gmc yukon pulled up and people started to surround it.
holden number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%) krejci number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) prentice number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
i see an imposing figure sitting by  himself at a picnic table under the shelter.
all through the afternoon, ali would pause and give that famous fighting glare and shake his fist at different people.
if they ever met you in  person, they would see a kind, loving, giving individual who had the time for  anyone.
what you did inside the  ring and outside the ring was phenomenal.
i heard the window come down and someone called out to get the little girl!
and in my opinion, there is no other soul more special than ali.
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) salam alikom ali moi artist pentre jeu voue disini toi pour toi envoi moi un photo number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
some 4 years ago i had  lost my way working too hard , losing my family and children, being very  selfish...
raheemisrael@verizon.net number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) anita.gaston1@insightbb.com number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%)
also i continue to be  sabotaged from employment and name slandered across the counties of orange, los  angeles and inland empire.
he took special time with the elderly and especially young children.
and as i was then and this is difficult memory takes me back to life.
i  think he finally realizes how impressive this is!!
first is muhammad ali of his parkinson's disease and my brother charles olajide idowu silva who died of colon cancer in nigeria on 9th april, 2010.
akinmayowa number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) idrisov number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) cryer
there is not an athlete today who will have the influence you had.
it comes in only  behind my wedding day 18 years ago and the birth days of my three children.
i turned and made my way through the crowd to where my  grandmother was sitting.
i send this little  story 17 january just on mr alis birthday and i will say congratulations to you  mr ali number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
but i know i can make him bleed, so just go!, dont feel bad , if u think then u r mad, dont think!
j crossroads page: 03 estimated printed pages: 5  article text: after waiting a lifetime, finally meeting muhammad ali i had the  third-best day of my life on the first of december this year.
he was ultra cool, dressed in all black and was very calm and  patient as he asked his bodyguard to take a family picture, with him in the  middle!
i see an imposing figure sitting by himself at a picnic table under the shelter.
you may use my story on the ali center website and/or in promoting  the ali center
andersson number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) shogbanmu number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
i turned and made my way through the crowd to where my grandmother was sitting.
i grew to  admire his courage and was truly inspired by his conviction to his ideals.
for the sake of the allah (st) mercy and merciful - help me to the coach - disabled!!!
i was a professional boxer myself for 12 years,so to get to the level  ali was at,and to stay a boxing god for as long as he did,is just incredible!!!
to say  it touched me would not give the moment justice.
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) chamcoart@yahoo.fr number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%) mehboob_awan2001@yahoo.com number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%)
i came to france with his family to survive the most (frequent pulmonary hemoptysis threatened my life) and that children could have a future, and we are here to defeat the contrary.
he inspires me to be  myself and to be a good person and to this day he is still my hero number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
you socked me  in the face mr ali number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
i'm somewhere in 2003 i think from baku turned to you, but to me then someone from your entourage said that you have difficulties with money, because you build a sports complex and since i am looking for sponsors for their dreams, but
i'm not sure if it was seeing mr. ali or seeing him with my dad that made it so special for me but whatever it was, that was one of the most special days of my 42 years of life.
i am now back home and although unable to get around without help, i now have my laptop
thank you for all you have done for us god bless you and your family number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
no one could stop me from fulfilling my dreams if i believed in myself and always did what was right.
, so if u wanna find happiness jus go to that old suker and  tell him that there is someone who can beat him really bad, smoking joe was  scared, foreman was scared, everyone was scared , im not!!!
i was a shy kid, a tall strong kid who always got teased by the the others because i was abit taller than the others and fat.
and those items are my most prized  possesion that now hangs in my family room.
after collecting the local  newspaper accounts the following day, i created a very nice framed display of  the glove, pen, invitations and articles, and it remains one of my most prized  possessions to this day and a beautiful memento of one of the most incredible  days of my life.
i yelled for my father to stop the car its ali and before the car could stop, my brothers and i had the doors open and were running towards ali.
today's athlete needs to take a lesson from the greatest and realize that without the fans they are nothing.
brother, i'm not asking you for money (although it is very difficult and they  need), i ask brother introduce me to a journalist who denounced my would appeal  to the rulers of the muslims that i have listed above, so that they would help  me in my request, and a dream , where i live for more than 33 years (dream of  all my life - to collect means and to construct sports complex and on its base  to open international training - sports, rehabilitation - healthy center  "peace and mercy to children", where there could study free of charge  and restore lost health and broken psychic condition - children, orphans,  invalids, kids-victims of wars, ethnic conflicts and natural cataclysms) and  the same free of charge raised and trained karate for children and young  people, and most recently tried his hand at boxing and coaching in the home of  his neighbor boy boxer suliman abdurashidova took him 3 months to win the  french cup in 2011, as well as in the semifinal of france - 2011, where he is  in equal fight on points lost in the final and joined the french team where the  training camp he was seriously injured the right shoulder and the doctors said  that i needed surgery, but despite this he had his first fight for the national  team and with one hand have won this battle, and then consented to surgery.
but while boxing, i discovered the story  of muhammad ali.
i was a little to young to remember everything he  talked about that day
bill number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%) miloud number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
he was  speaking at oswego state college and my father was huge fan of his and he toook  me with him to hear him talk.
then i left to serve in mongolia, and  there began for himself karate, playing football in the same way, then began to  rebel
i would  agree — the human race.
i can remember as a small boy my intense admiration for muhammad, however at that time such admiration was based on his exploits as an athlete.
ashlei-ali number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%)
it was the same year that the movie came out.
we approached his limo but it had the windows up and once again secruity did their job and pushed us aside, as were we walking away i heard the window come down and someone called out to get the little girl!
david number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) joe number  of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
ali proved that one  individual can change destiny of millions and his humantarian efforsts are  recognized as part of his desire to share his blessings and goodwill to all.
ali then  became my role model, i bought the film, put posters of him in my room, made a  movie about him for a school project.
during my time in  hospital, 'soul of the butterfly' was my constant companion, reading and  meditating daily over it's wonderful and spiritual words, this has helped my  progress and courage beyond words...
i have always been great at spoken word now as a professional boxer i fight for world peace and for the love of my people true religion would not weperate us but be tolorate of all races and beliefs it is with t hat conviction that i step off the football field and into the ring to do one thing to make the world sing boom ba ya boom ba ya ali rumble young man rumble no howard
to end our very special  day he was put into a convertable car to ride in the parade and we were  standing in line watching him go by when i yelled to him your still pretty  muhammad and he yelled back your pretty too, then he noticed my daughter by my  side again!
for  me, that was always ali.
number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) “struggle for freedom, rights, privacy & justice”
and then me and secretly and infected with pulmonary tuberculosis and after that i became disabled.
shihanidrisov@mail.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) bradiecryer@yahoo.com
before we knew it, about 40 kids ran across the  street into the bookstore.
and yet i the will of  allah (st) sent him a knockout, and when he came to himself, i told him about  the words that muhammad ali is my brother and i will tear him any.
thanks for all you  do ali, you are still the greatest!!!!
info@das-pflegeteam-2000.de number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) harman@live.dk number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) prab_inter@hotmail.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
harris number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) canlas number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) holmes number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) richards number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
and he yelled back your pretty too, then he noticed my daughter by my side again!
i'm talkin' to ali!!!
so i went up to a teacher.
ali was training for the shavers fight,but when i shared the story and that children were involved i was given access to mahummad.
at the commencement, we were seated near the stage, just to the right of ali.
i was a shy kid, a tall strong kid who always got teased  by the the others because i was abit taller than the others and fat.
brother, i'm not asking you for money (although it is very difficult and they need), i ask brother introduce me to a journalist who denounced my would appeal to the rulers of the muslims that i have listed above, so that they would help me in my request, and a dream , where i live for more than 33 years (dream of all my life - to collect means and to construct sports complex and on its base to open international training - sports, rehabilitation - healthy center "peace and mercy to children", where there could study free of charge and restore lost health and broken psychic condition - children, orphans, invalids, kids-victims of wars, ethnic conflicts and natural cataclysms) and the same free of charge raised and trained karate for children and young people, and most recently tried his hand at boxing and coaching in the home of his neighbor boy boxer suliman abdurashidova took him 3 months to win the french cup in 2011, as well as in the semifinal of france - 2011, where he is in equal fight on points lost in the final and joined the french team where the training camp he was seriously injured the right shoulder and the doctors said that i needed surgery, but despite this he had his first fight for the national team and with one hand have won this battle, and then consented to surgery.
his bodyguard seemed alarmed  at this young white girl and her three brothers and as he grabbed my arm and my  camera, ali looked at him and said "take your hands off of that  child."
you are one of my biggest role model right next to my parents.
he was slighter in build than i expected, but he was very youthful looking for a man of 62.
although i had no family to attend my graduation ceremony i can honestly say i was the proudest graduate on stage that night.
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) rummble young man rumble, my wings lide with  percision that evolves from the flight of the hummingbird you can pollunate the  univerise with love and benevolance and sting like a cobra a black mamba due to  the intensity of my purpose my distant uncle hugged me as a child and told me  that allah always guides his children now i want you to sit ringside uncle and  watch your name sake funny that i went to college to become a writer funny
i have now got hold of a copy of 'more than a hero' by hana ali...this too i cherish..
he has inspired me to be a better muslim and to dedicate my life to helping others.
i had the great pleasure of meeting "the greatest" a couple of times, one time very personal to me the other time creating some cherished memories i'll for the rest of my life.
the greatest, mr ali himself.
i grew up following how ali turned  sports into victory for the black race as they struggle for emancipation.
i was so disappointed when the photos were developed.
i am looking for sponsors around the world for  themselves and their activities.
dear brother, i appeal to the many years of muslim rulers: saudi arabia, brunei, kuwait, united arab emirates, bahrain, qatar, oman, jordan, malaysia, but my letters to them, do not get - they just throw in their environment in the dustbin - although i'll forgive them for the sake of allah (st) to transfer my appeal recipients.
i love my brother muhammad ali from my childhood i watched his live fights with joe frazier,ken norton,george forman,leon spinks and larry holmes on tv.
canastatota ny is our home town.
as well as video clips onwww.youtube.com (sensei1977st ).
i was not home at the time and how  it had bothered me ever since.
as famous as he is, he is still a man of the people.
i'm not sure if it was  seeing mr. ali or seeing him with my dad that made it so special for me but  whatever it was, that was one of the most special days of my 42 years of life.
assalamu alaykum warahmatullahi wabarakatuh!!!
i and my family not nor home nor health, nor the possibility of a normal life, and for my eldest son became disabled after a head injury in 2009 that his back at work cowardly attacked the french brass knuckles addicts who have failed deal with him face to face and he lay 15 days in a coma, but the will of allah (st) survived, but not fully recovered.
number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
struggling for justice number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
in 1985 - 86 years had two operations to survive: deleted part of the left lung, three edges and two thirds of the stomach.
first is muhammad ali of his parkinson's disease  and my brother charles olajide idowu silva who died of colon cancer in nigeria  on 9th april, 2010.
mikee tenerife number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%)
we were standing in line as he passed with all the secruity around him.
the next day i read that my hero muhammad  ali, had lost the decision, i could'nt believe it!
i even use your barber got to look pretty for the camera and internet will do what we did befoe number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
i am very proud and happy.
you knew that and that is why, even as i am over 50 years old, you will always be an idol.
we  hitchhiked from ill to new york city for the fight - quite an adventure as we  were thrown off the tollways twice by state troopers and gained the largest  segment of our trip from an awol soldier in a stolen vehicle.
so far, after minor physical and nervous disorders susceptible to pulmonary hemoptysis), but despite his disability, i as a muslim - for the sake of allah (st) - more than 30 years of free education of children and young people (regardless of nation or religion), karate, and thus to accustom them to a healthy lifestyle and spiritual - moral purity.
at the commencement, we were seated near the stage, just to the  right of ali.
gary number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%)
so far, after minor physical and  nervous disorders susceptible to pulmonary hemoptysis), but despite his  disability, i as a muslim - for the sake of allah (st) - more than 30 years of  free education of children and young people (regardless of nation or religion),  karate, and thus to accustom them to a healthy lifestyle and spiritual - moral  purity.
you knew that and that is why,  even as i am over 50 years old, you will always be an idol.
dear brother muhammad ali, if you can - help me for the sake of allah (st).
then i left to serve in mongolia, and there began for himself karate, playing football in the same way, then began to rebel
i grew to admire his courage and was truly inspired by his conviction to his ideals.
meeting ali has been a lifetime  quest for me and that day was nothing short of remarkable.
jnj-1958@att.net number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
i have been a big  ali-fan as long i remember.
section black  belt) in title of master shihan - 5 dan.
the "islam for non-muslams" pamphlet he gave me will  always be cherished.
i am going to  change the world through service and dedicate my life to serving others...but  my one hope today is to meet muhammad ali.
during my time in hospital, 'soul of the butterfly' was my constant companion, reading and meditating daily over it's wonderful and spiritual words, this has helped my progress and courage beyond words...
and i know im the one , he was great , im great
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) assalamu alaikum, yaa mohammad, i am from yola the adamawa state in nigeria and as your muslim brother i am looking for assistance in my business and ready 2 sent 2 you my business propursal to open an ice block
just listening to what he had to say, the way he carried  himself and conducted his life is amazing to me.
after the commencement,  there was a short break while everyone filed out of the huge tent.
two poeple i have ever prayed to  god to if possible reduce the number of years i would spend on earth for them  to get cured of their ailment.
here i underwent an emergency operation before being transfered to an specialist hospital, where i underwent a further 2 operations, one lasting over 10 hours, to reconstruct my left leg and create skin grafts for both legs....
ali proved that one individual can change destiny of millions and his humantarian efforsts are recognized as part of his desire to share his blessings and goodwill to all.
i don't think i can say that i  am his number fan, but i can say that he is my biggest hero.
record number: merlin_1452489 number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
she then told me that  he was a famous boxer.
you had the right  to be, you were the greatest and you backed it up.
it became clear that ali, true to his reputation,  would visit with these kids before anyone else.
all of today's pompous athletes should take a lesson from this mans humility and humanity.
i now teach various sports including boxing to underprivalidged young people, many whom have been involved in crime.
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) kor number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%)
his confidence in himself and his faith would not let anyone  or anything stop him from fulfilling his destiny.
expand far out of the ring transending life and one thing my hero is allah my bloodline flows through your vein a boo ba ya boom ba ya rumble young man rumble once again g.o.a.t.
i appeal to the press, too, but there are also indifferently silent.
boxer and street fighter  - football and the fight was bloody and cruel, and no one wanted to give in, i  broke my wrist, all my face was covered in blood, but i did not feel pain, but  was just some sort of drowsiness, nausea, and heaviness in the head, but in  spite of this i continued to fight one with his left hand
hello, you will remember roland henry sunit, 15.07.65?!
ali-he did magic tricks and signed autograghs for me as well as my family-i will never forget that time thank-you and..............happy birthday!!!!!
never let us watch violent movies, but my family never missed an ali boxing match!
it dont matter via internet or via something  else, just go nowwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww, its a breaking news u  can make lots of money with this :) :!
i even use your barber got to look pretty for the camera and internet will  do what we did befoe number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%)
the next day i read that my hero muhammad ali, had lost the decision, i could'nt believe it!
i have recently finished my undergraduate  education at the university of louisville, and i am searching to take up my  masters in architecture, i plan on visiting the center very soon.
no  one could stop me from fulfilling my dreams if i believed in myself and always  did what was right.
ali, we love you we adore you.
harris number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
, so if uuuu dont want to understand what im saying jus go to hell or go to that suker, i want to talk to him face to face!!!!!!!
before we knew it, about 40 kids ran across the street into the bookstore.
cummings number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%)
i then fought many times in my  life defending justice, walking on knives, going against the crowd, against the  authorities (1983 anti-soviet hunger strike 35 days) has passed two of the war,  went to the bullets and bombs, and choked with his own blood, but never ever  allah (st ) did not give me a reason to show their weakness and cowardice to  show and when i did is bad, i think this fight
a few years later, i was lucky  enough to have his picture taken holding my 18 month old son.
and i hope he will be able to live the rest of his life like he  always has with dignity and greatness.
the picture , with me at his side, has hung in my office since that day.
j crossroads page: 03 estimated printed pages: 5 article text: after waiting a lifetime, finally meeting muhammad ali i had the third-best day of my life on the first of december this year.
my mom never  let us watch violent movies, but my family never missed an ali boxing match!
i am over 30 years of disability (disabled person soviet army since 1977.
so my wife began explaining to  ali’s assistant kim that i had written to him three years ago, and that  he had called me in response to my letter.
may allah continue to use you for his glory.
to me, as a child, and still as an adult muhammad ali, will always be my hero, and "the greatest fighter of all time"!
", since that time i too have grown, grown to admire this man to a point of elevating him to "worshiped" status!
i look upto ali as an  inspiration to make the most of my life and to help others, whom have low self  esteem, or issues that have impacted on their lives.
we were standing in line as he  passed with all the secruity around him.
ahmad number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) noah akinmayowa number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) ruslan number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) bradie number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) cindy number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) bill number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%) miloud number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) jeff
i have shared this story with countless clients over the years.
i graduated with a 4.0 grade point average.
i bought a copy of 'soul of a butterfly' and  along with some very stong willpower and help and support, i changed...no more  alcohol.(still haven't for over 4 years) read and loved every page of such a  wonderful book...had i not been as fit and well as i was, the police and  ambulance said i would not have survived, they also commented along with the  surgeons of my tremendous 'faith' and will to not only survive but see the good  in all that had happened, look to each day as a gift, although i will not  return to my love of sports coaching , fully for another 12 months and not walk  fully again for at least 6 months , if all goes well!
he took the drawing  from her and thanked her.
my daughter had drawn him a cute litte  pencil sketch of two boxers and one was sweating heart shaped beads of sweat,  my daughter lindsey broke free from us and ran to him with her precious drawing  in hand,, the secruity pushed her back but when muhammand saw what was  happening he took his big hand and wave the secruity aside, he bent down so  gently and hugged her.
wassalam number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) milwaukee journal sentinel (wi) december 19, 2004 after waiting a lifetime, finally meeting muhammad ali author: bill miller
becker number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
as time passed, i still heard about him and as a kid i always asked myself if he was a muslim just like me.
i stood  quietly and took it all in.
his messages of believing in yourself and standing up for what is right, even in the face of adversity have inspired me in my life.
we were one of  the lucky ones that actually had the chance to shake muhammads hand.
i was repeatedly told that i would never  amount to anything.
and i will be great, i mean it, im not joking, i can beat him really bad, i repeat i can beat him really bad, no one had seen blood on the face of him untill now,
but he  knows magic to wow!
he held and kissed every baby and child  with no regard for age or race.
my data: documents, photos, video here onwww.facebook.com (ruslan idrisov) -  http://www.facebook.com/note.php?note_id=187826231265713
i wish dearly to have this opportunity one day.
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) july 31,1977 muhammed ali came to baltimore as a favor to help raise money for a local women, who had gotten scholorships for poor gifted black children... to the best private schools , before there were any government programs.
ali to me is more than a boxer,he is an icon for millions of people who dont  even like this sport.
almost instantly, ali stood up and gave laurie a huge heartfelt hug.
having suffered depression since childhood, mostly due to been bullied.
if you wish to know something about your contact 18.06.63 please ask me; i will try to find out the truth.
number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) i am currently working  on a paper for one of my classes, but i am procrastinating and watching videos  of muhammad ali's poems, fights and interviews.
i'm  somewhere in 2003 i think from baku turned to you, but to me then someone from  your entourage said that you have difficulties with money, because you build a  sports complex and since i am looking for sponsors for their dreams, but
how i got his phone number from elijah muhammed was amasing.
my brother ali, i hope to meet you in person  one day.
having witnessed his metamorphosis during his steadfast stance against social inequality, civil rights issues and war, at all costs, even to the point of professing to congress to have "come here today ready to die!
having witnessed  his metamorphosis during his steadfast stance against social inequality, civil  rights issues and war, at all costs, even to the point of professing to  congress to have "come here today ready to die!
having suffered  depression since childhood, mostly due to been bullied.
your positive  contribution to this world will be seen for thousands of years to come.
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) i met you one night at erma's cafateria at 26th and broadway
his bodyguard seemed alarmed at this young white girl and her three brothers and as he grabbed my arm and my camera, ali looked at him and said "take your hands off of that child."
all through the afternoon, ali would pause and  give that famous fighting glare and shake his fist at different people.
i was about 9 years old and lived in kansas city, missouri.
ali-he did magic tricks  and signed autograghs for me as well as my family-i will never forget that time  thank-you and..............happy birthday!!!!!
that is the ali  magic.
aniba number  of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) jacobs number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) hagenah number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
my father told me many stories of joking, and laughing with muhammad ali at central high school.
i wish you  longevity and happiness in all you do, and although we shall most probably  never meet...both you and your wonderful daughter hana yasmeen feel very much  like wonderful old fiends...god bless always in gratitude your friend geoff number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
and it was somewhere in september brother you just fight with joe frazier.
i had the great  pleasure of meeting "the greatest" a couple of times, one time very  personal to me the other time creating some cherished memories i'll for the  rest of my life.
i quickly got dressed and he and i left to drive by the muslim templ.
mehboob number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
my god, jesus christ, my earthly father and muhammad ali in that order!
percentage of responses(3%)
i grew up watching boxing and ali on our old black and white tv,as did my husband.
appeal to my brother muhammad ali bismillahirrahmanirrahim!!!
dear brother, me 56 years old and i do not know how much i have left and i would not want to leave because of life - an obscure and forgotten by giving children and young people 33 years of his life, health and welfare and that after my death my wife and 2 sons eked out a miserable life abroad.
raheemisrael@verizon.net number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) anita.gaston1@insightbb.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
raheem number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) anita number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) shawn number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) gordon number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) marcelis number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) austyn number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) ernie number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) mikee number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) gary number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%) david number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) joe number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) michael number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) john, jr number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) mohammad number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
to you drawn coach - disabled from chechnya, which the disease resides in france (year-round needs a warm maritime climate).
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) i remember as a kid when kids always called me  muhammad ali because my name was mohammad and i got fed up with it because i  thought they were teasing me so i went up to a teacher.
i would just like to say "thank you" to muhammad ali.
i pray for his health and long life.
the life of ali made me have more confidence in myself and better self esteem.
krejci number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) prentice number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
the impact you have made for millions and me included is unbelievable.
michael number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) john, jr number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) mohammad number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) leon number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) geoff number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%) jonathan number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) warren jonathan number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) gregory d. number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%) torbjorn number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) samson o number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
i think he finally realizes how impressive this is!!
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) maren number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) harman number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) prabhjit number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
ali could see how nervous i was.
regards, mehboob awan.
number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) cynthia.e.kor@boeing.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) bill.iwami@sbcglobal.net number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
cummings number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
if ever i feel down, i think of ali and the way he leads his life and the warmth he generates towards others, and soon my mood lifts and inspires me to make the most of my life and to help others.
i was a student at the university of lagos and the night was  electrifying and we were convinced ali has fulfilled a heroic mission in a  continent where he is admired so much.
but as time passed,  what impressed me the most was his love for people and his strong beliefs in  right vs. wrong.
raheem number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) anita number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) shawn number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) gordon number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%) marcelis number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%)
one of my ambitions in life is to but touch him, to  be in his awesome presence and aura.
he was slighter in build than i expected, but  he was very youthful looking for a man of 62.
today, i am 46  years old and living a life i could only have dreamed of 25 years ago.
"i know where i'm going and i know the truth and i  don't have to be what you want me to be.
p.s. i'm know howard bingham  was right there taking pictures, but i've never been able to contact him about  whether or not he took any while my glove was being signed.
i finally have a place to display my auto'ed gloves and si's.
it became clear that ali, true to his reputation, would visit with these kids before anyone else.
but years later  in 86 i met him again in norfolk, va and he gave me a signed autographed  picture and he posed in a few photos w/ me.
and what a proud moment it was i would to say thank you to him and  his family persnally, god bless you all the photo with you takes pride of place  in my home, and hope that one day we can come to the ali centre your faithfully  mr warren j plant and family number of responses1 percentage  of responses(3%)
the picture , with me at his side, has hung in my office since that  day.
that  is what happened to him and we fought without gloves.
i stayed in the sport for three years until a family move forced me to quit.
friends, do not interrupt the course of this letter, please send it to my brother muhammad ali and let him do as he must do.
we approached his limo but it had  the windows up and once again secruity did their job and pushed us aside, as  were we walking away i heard the window come down and someone called out to get  the little girl!
i bought a copy of 'soul of a butterfly' and along with some very stong willpower and help and support, i changed...no more alcohol.(still haven't for over 4 years) read and loved every page of such a wonderful book...had i not been as fit and well as i was, the police and ambulance said i would not have survived, they also commented along with the surgeons of my tremendous 'faith' and will to not only survive but see the good in all that had happened, look to each day as a gift, although i will not return to my love of sports coaching , fully for another 12 months and not walk fully again for at least 6 months , if all goes well!
brother, i hope that this time, my appeal will give your  hands and you do so, as in this case should go my brother in the faith of  muhammad ali which i fought and won in his youth as he and insha allah.
we remained in line for approximately 45 minutes, and as the line  slowly moved, my anxiety grew.
he came back to our event sunday which was a huge success,only because of his  generosity.
i'm not a little-known pupils, but  after the anti-soviet hunger strike in 1983, they most cowardly betrayed me,  but despite this i have the will of allah (st) suffered two serious operations,  survived and still continue my labor of love of life - though have a very  difficult one, because it is difficult to survive was his mother's death in  2005, and i could not take her final journey, and now this injury her son in  2009, which led to his disability, and crippled me and my wife completely, but  try to stay as i can and all still hoping to put his main dream in life - a  life
, so if uuuu dont  want to understand what im saying jus go to hell or go to that suker, i want to  talk to him face to face!!!!!!!
you are the greatest human being in the world.
total: 39 number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
leon number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) geoff number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) jonathan number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) warren jonathan number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) gregory d. number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%)
i was in grade 2 then
i watched the film  and was so amazed about why he was so great, i started researching on him and  he then lifted me up.
i know he has had a tough time the past few years with his illness
i can  remember as a small boy my intense admiration for muhammad, however at that  time such admiration was based on his exploits as an athlete.
st. joe lodge 96  (still pretty lily white at the time!!).
the second coming january 5, 2008 turks and caicos i train in lousiville where you trained i sat where your bike was stolen, i run up thestreet that carries our name.
what i wouldn't give for an 8x10 of that moment!
section black belt) in title of master shihan - 5 dan.
how i got his phone number from elijah  muhammed was amasing.
torbjorn number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) samson o number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
i wish you longevity and happiness in all you do, and although we shall most probably never meet...both you and your wonderful daughter hana yasmeen feel very much like wonderful old fiends...god bless always in gratitude your friend geoff number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) my ali story is about the time that i got to meet the champ on the day that he received his first honorary college degree, doctor of laws, at mount ida college in newton center, massachusetts on may 28, 1994.
as a boy of 12, i  discovered boxing at a local boxing club.
i grew up watching boxing and  ali on our old black and white tv,as did my husband.
i soon found out that he was and was  proud and in 2007 wen i was in year 8 the movie was on tv.
would it be possible to get his address for me to send him a copy of my picture to him.
ali consolidated his admiration by africans in 1975 when he defeated  george foreman.
and as i  tried not to stare i kept saying its muhammad ali
whilst every generation have their heros and role  models there has never been anyone who reached so many people like muhammad  ali.
on the  second day of my entire face was bruised (as in my opponent ), body ached, and  we with him tuscany dismantling the magistrate, but i was happy because i knew  that i had won the hardest fight of his life, because iovercame in himself  defended his weaknesses and your name in part from ridicule, because if i would  have lost this fight, i and my brothers chechens - the muslims would lose face
linda number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
so needless to say my two daughters also fell in love with boxing.
as we drove through our neighborhood that early morning, which  bordered the sheraton hotel in landover maryland, i noticed a group of very  large men and in the ceter of the group was muhammand ali.
to end our very special day he was put into a convertable car to ride in the parade and we were standing in line watching him go by when i yelled to him
it was  thanks to listening and watching you fight and talk that pushed me to my limits  and made me fight against the odds, so here weare again...you saving me and me  sending the gift of faith and hope to you my dear dear gentleman...
international organization of  kyokushin karate (www.ikko.ws section regions.
after serving two years, i came home, opened the first section of karate in chechnya, and since then, and began to teach their students free karate and to the extent possible to help children - the disabled and since i was born and in my cherished dream.
sign  up, offer friendship and see.
i thought not only is he the greatest but he knows magic to wow!
no  worry no weight on my coat tail it wasn't sonny yet you ko'd liston your nephew  snake eyes the second coming got the game hissin quicker than robinson pound  for pound stronger than the tree you chopped down in zaire lean forward my  grace lend me your ear teach me how to fight with my heart and my soul that the  truth of your greatness through my struggle shall be retold your greatness
and in my opinion, there  is no other soul more special than ali.
just then, we heard an announcement that ali would not be signing autographs, but instead would be handing out brochures which he'd previously signed, entitled "women in islam".
my ali story: my husband and young daughter lindsey and myself went to the boxing hall of fame back in 1990.
his messages of believing in  yourself and standing up for what is right, even in the face of adversity have  inspired me in my life.
after the crowd subsided, i walked up to ali and  explained to him, the best way i could, what he meant to me.
in a complicated world, love is still the only thing  anybody really needs.
after the crowd subsided, i walked up to ali and explained to him, the best way i could, what he meant to me.
goltsman number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) cynthia.e.kor@boeing.com number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) bill.iwami@sbcglobal.net number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%)
i remember march 8, 1971, the ali/frazieri fight at madison  square garden, i was 11 years old.
it dont matter via internet or via something else, just go nowwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww, its a breaking news u can make lots of money with this :) :!
bill miller lives in oconomowoc.
but years later in 86 i met him again in norfolk, va and he gave me a signed autographed picture and he posed in a few photos w/ me.
he was ultra cool, dressed in all black and was very calm and patient as he asked his bodyguard to take a family picture, with him in the middle!
muhammad ali center > about muhammad  ali share your ali story number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%) linda number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%)
but while boxing, i discovered the story of muhammad ali.
yes number of responses38 percentage of responses(97%)
and when the fighting was, many set against you since you were a muslim, and we all chechens (12) were rooting for you and at this point the dispute who will win and who i stood up and said that muhammad ali would win and then a my colleague, an ethnic russian (he was a boxer and champion of the baltic military district) stood up and said that he was a supporter of joe frazier, and that if you win, joe frazier, he will fight with me after hanging up.
he would jokingly shake his fist at me as i stood watching.
gailan hassan yonis number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
today's athlete needs to take a lesson from the greatest and  realize that without the fans they are nothing.
rumble young man rumble let's do it again ps.
he appeared to have a handful of small brochures that he was handing out.
it has allways been a lifelong ambition to meet the great man,shake his hand,hug him,ask ali everything!!!one day prehaps,my dream might come true.
i graduated with a 4.0 grade  point average.
the picture taken many years ago brings back very fond memories, a few  family members are now gone, but the fun and excitement of that day lives on.
never before has anyone united people of all walks of life and instilled so much hope and confidence like ali.
brave guy  that i am, and i don't remember much, it is him!!!
i ask him, "how's it goin' champ?"
if ever i  feel down, i think of ali and the way he leads his life and the warmth he  generates towards others, and soon my mood lifts and inspires me to make the  most of my life and to help others.
i quickly went back to our car parked right outside to get a paper bag i'd stashed under the front seat (unbeknownst to my grandmother) and met her at the door of the learning resource center, where the private reception was being held.
but i do remember how he was so loved by those around him  and what a great presence he had with the whole audeince at the time.
i have been a big ali-fan as long i remember.
the most famous person in the world had driven up to the bookstore in a truck no different from mine.
andersson number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) shogbanmu number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%)
thank you for your time and consideration!!
i  have always been great at spoken word now as a professional boxer i fight for  world peace and for the love of my people true religion would not weperate us  but be tolorate of all races and beliefs it is with t hat conviction that i  step off the football field and into the ring to do one thing to make the world  sing boom ba ya boom ba ya ali rumble young man rumble no howard no cosell
this is a small town event with many of the local police.
the honorees were already inside, with a swarm of people around ali, as you'd expect.
on the 31st may , i was involved in a freak  accident, where on walking to get my sunday paper, an elderly gentleman lost  control of his jaguar car and mounted the sidewalk and crushed me against a  wall, where with very serious leg injuries i was trapped for over 30 minutes  untill be released by the fire dept and rushed to hospital.
to end  our very special day he was put into a convertable car to ride in the parade  and we were standing in line watching him go by when i yelled to him your still  pretty muhammad and he yelled back your pretty too, then he noticed my daughter  by my side again!
whilst every generation have their heros and role models there has never been anyone who reached so many people like muhammad ali.
my son wanted to become a professional fighter karate, but it did and now disabled until we do not care about anyone.
dent2@cox.net number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) gb1@beckergroup.com number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%) luvthynhbr@yahoo.com number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) www.austynharris@msn.com number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) erfranc@verizon.net number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) mikeeholmes1@hotmail.com number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) gary-richards@hotmail.co.uk number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) dholden2@twcny.rr.com number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) jkrejci1958@sbcglobal.net
but when my  father took the picture when my brother and i were in front of him my father  was so excited to get us in the picture that he cut off the champ in the  picture.
augustine number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%) israel number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) whiteside - gaston number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%) dent number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%)
later that day i thought it would be nice if she could get his autograph.
p.s. brother, please forgive me for mistakes, i do not know foreign languages and translations are made via the internet translator.
his wife then showed up and tried to persuade him that it was time to  go.
but as time passed, what impressed me the most was his love for people and his strong beliefs in right vs. wrong.
it was clear that ali wanted to spend more time with the people who had had come to see him.
thank you again, david holden, 5315 heidi lane,  brewerton, ny 13069 number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%)
mr. ali please let me share a memory:
one morning my father woke me up and told me to hurry and get  dressed.
it took a few minutes of urging.
he has inspired me  to be a better muslim and to dedicate my life to helping others.
dent2@cox.net number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) gb1@beckergroup.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) luvthynhbr@yahoo.com number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) www.austynharris@msn.com
just listening to what he had to say, the way he carried himself and conducted his life is amazing to me.
i have started boxing inspired by muhammad ali boxing style and have  honed my skills and movements trying to do what hevused to inthe ring.
jonathan robinson number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) life time ambition on  the 27th of august at brittania stadium in stoke on trent england, i met  muhammad ali.
friends, do not interrupt the course of this letter, please  send it to my brother muhammad ali and let him do as he must do.
hi, first of all; thank you for the opportunity to tell you how i met muhammad ali.
what you did inside the ring and outside the ring was phenomenal.
......... number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
thanks number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
boxer and street fighter - football and the fight was bloody and cruel, and no one wanted to give in, i broke my wrist, all my face was covered in blood, but i did not feel pain, but was just some sort of drowsiness, nausea, and heaviness in the head, but in spite of this i continued to fight one with his left hand
the picture taken many years ago brings back very fond memories, a few family members are now gone, but the fun and excitement of that day lives on.
my god, jesus christ, my earthly father and  muhammad ali in that order!
number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%)
ali could see how nervous i  was.
when my turn came, i shook the champ's hand and said: "i know i'm  not supposed to ask for this, but this glove was my grandfather's from the 30s  and i hoped you'd make an exception".
some of the only memories he has are  those of "horse playing" with the greatest in the hallways, and  bathrooms of central high school.
meeting ali has been a lifetime quest for me and that day was nothing short of remarkable.
and yet i the will of allah (st) sent him a knockout, and when he came to himself, i told him about the words that muhammad ali is my brother and i will tear him any.
i don't think i can say that i am his number fan, but i can say that he is my biggest hero.
i was unaware at the time but a local hobby photographer  got the shot of her wrapping her tiny arms around his neck!
but i know i can make him bleed, so just go!, dont feel bad , if u think then u  r mad, dont think!
now, i've met quite a few famous people in my life, but i'd never  had such a reaction from the feeling of being in the presence of 'true  greatness’, neither before nor since.
him gave a disability but did not give pension( we immigrants and us can do anything ) and we submitted to the tribunal, but the result is still unknown, and when it is also unknown, because we have a social advocate, and to hire a lawyer in our normal no money.
hi friends i am a swedish man, 58 years old.
ali consolidated his admiration by africans in 1975 when he defeated george foreman.
many people take  stands in their life but seldom have to give up everything because of those  principles, especially if it involves forfeiting the greatest title in the  world, world heavyweight champion.
i quickly  went back to our car parked right outside to get a paper bag i'd stashed under  the front seat (unbeknownst to my grandmother) and met her at the door of the  learning resource center, where the private reception was being held.
i stared so hard that you came over to our table and did a magic trick with your thumb you pulled a piece of matrial from your thumb
so he began play box to ease my nervousness and then hugged me again and smiled.
he told his security to bring her to sit with him in the convertable for a few min it was a glorious day and she still talks of it, and i still remember the glimmer in his eye and the size of his hand , and the feeling that my hand was swallowed in his.
now, i've met quite a few famous people in my life, but i'd never had such a reaction from the feeling of being in the presence of 'true greatness’, neither before nor since.
no worry no weight on my coat tail it wasn't sonny yet you ko'd liston your nephew snake eyes the second coming got the game hissin quicker than robinson pound for pound stronger than the tree you chopped down in zaire lean forward my grace lend me your ear teach me how to fight with my heart and my soul that the truth of your greatness through my struggle shall be retold your greatness
augustine number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
i was 10 yrs old and followed everything about the champ.
"it sure looks like him."
dear  brother, me 56 years old and i do not know how much i have left and i would not  want to leave because of life - an obscure and forgotten by giving children and  young people 33 years of his life, health and welfare and that after my death  my wife and 2 sons eked out a miserable life abroad.
we remained in line for approximately 45 minutes, and as the line slowly moved, my anxiety grew.
thank you for being such an inspiration to me and for sharing your wonderful life with the world.
i appeal to the press, too, but there  are also indifferently silent.
bill number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) muhammad number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%) chmsou number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%)
and as i tried not to stare i kept saying its muhammad ali
when my turn came, i shook the champ's hand and said: "i know i'm not supposed to ask for this, but this glove was my grandfather's from the 30s and i hoped you'd make an exception".
and then me and secretly and infected with pulmonary tuberculosis and  after that i became disabled.
not a word said, but not a word needed.
i knew i had to change...
one of my wish before i leave this planet would be to meet with a man who  i looked upon to fight my fears and to become a strong and fearless fighter  with an unbreakable spirit.
i think there was a little small talk.
and i hope it gives me a better understanding of all of the complexities in the world today.
i immediately felt a 'buzz' as i entered the room and made my way in his direction.
that inspiration gave me the strength to put myself through  college, working two and sometimes three jobs.
it was truly amazing to see  the love he showed everyone there.
ali to me is more than a boxer,he is an icon for millions of people who dont even like this sport.
my daughter had drawn him a cute litte pencil sketch of two boxers and one was sweating heart shaped beads of sweat, my daughter lindsey broke free from us and ran to him with her precious drawing in hand,, the secruity pushed her back but when muhammand saw what was happening he took his big hand and wave the secruity aside, he bent down so gently and hugged her.
that is the ali magic.
my  grandmother, miriam robinson, was on the board of overseers at the school at  that time, after many years there as an english professor.
we were one of the lucky ones that  actually had the chance to shake muhammads hand.
i could not believe i was in the same room with the greastest of all all all times.
whatever the reason, he made me and many others feel special.
she started to ask me how it went, but when she saw  how much i was visibly shaking, she said: "honey you'd better sit  down!"
i grew up following how ali turned sports into victory for the black race as they struggle for emancipation.
and that’s why i wanted to meet muhammad ali, so i could thank him personally.
upon our arrival, i got the chance to see mr. ali.
thank you for being such an inspiration  to me and for sharing your wonderful life with the world.
his life  has helped me believe firmly that one shall never give up and keep fighting, i  have recently named my little son muhammad ali aniba and i am just so proud of  that.
number  of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
info@das-pflegeteam-2000.de number  of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) harman@live.dk number of responses1  percentage of responses(3%) prab_inter@hotmail.com number of responses1 percentage of  responses(3%)
with  hope and respect for coach - disabled, volunteer ruslan idrisov - official  representative (volunteer like all 30 years)
as well as having grace,style,speed,beauty in the ring,he also has all these plus more outside the ropes.
while we were waiting outside the  bookstore for ali’s arrival, we noticed a small church in a run-down  building across the street.
he came back to our event sunday which was a huge success,only because of his generosity.
total: 39 number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) nysophia@aol.com number of responses 1 percentage of responses(3%)
ali has made me believe in  myself, and my ability.
i'm sure he must  have.
truly  your biggest fan, harman yonis number of responses1 percentage  of responses(3%) muhammmad  ali is ugly , i repeat muhammad is ugly, i know nobody is like him besides me i  repeat " besides me" , im 21 yrs old , im more faster , im handsome
st. joe lodge 96 (still pretty lily white at the time!!).
the most famous person in the world had driven up to the bookstore  in a truck no different from mine.
mikee tenerife number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%)
(note: this notice does not apply to those news items already copyrighted and received through wire services or other media.)
i lost the sight in my left eye when i  was 12 in 1972...due to a sporting accident...was told i wouldn't do sport any  more...
during his acceptance speech, he said, to tumultuous applause:  "they called me the king; they called me the greatest; they called me the  champion.
god  bless you all number of responses1 percentage of responses (3%) in 1988 while in  michigan i located his house and was allowed in by mr.
then i saw pictures of joe frazier, i suddenly realized, that the real winner got robbed of the decision.
it was truly amazing to see the love he showed everyone there.
and i  will be great, i mean it, im not joking, i can beat him really bad, i repeat i  can beat him really bad, no one had seen blood on the face of him untill now,
i'm sure he must have.
two poeple i have ever prayed to god to if possible reduce the number of years i would spend on earth for them to get cured of their ailment.
p.s. brother, please forgive me for mistakes, i  do not know foreign languages and translations are made via the internet  translator.
hi, first of  all; thank you for the opportunity to tell you how i met muhammad ali.
well, despite the fact that my plan would violate that edict, i reached inside the bag and pulled out a magic marker and a cloth boxing glove that was my grandfather's from the 1930s and took another step closer.
we were  standing in line as he passed with all the secruity around him.
you may use my story on the ali center website and/or in promoting the ali center
my ali story is about the time that i got to  meet the champ on the day that he received his first honorary college degree,  doctor of laws, at mount ida college in newton center, massachusetts on may 28,  1994.
we were one of the lucky ones that actually had the chance to shake muhammads hand.
my ali story: my husband and young daughter  lindsey and myself went to the boxing hall of fame back in 1990.
my husband roy and young  daughter lindsey and myself went to the boxing hall of fame back in 1990.
i'm not a little-known pupils, but after the anti-soviet hunger strike in 1983, they most cowardly betrayed me, but despite this i have the will of allah (st) suffered two serious operations, survived and still continue my labor of love of life - though have a very difficult one, because it is difficult to survive was his mother's death in 2005, and i could not take her final journey, and now this injury her son in 2009, which led to his disability, and crippled me and my wife completely, but try to stay as i can and all still hoping to put his main dream in life - a life
she'd received her annual invitation to the graduation ceremony, as well as an invitation to the post-commencement private reception for the six honorary degree recipients.
i was a little to young to remember everything he talked about that day
belarbi number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) ur-rehman awan number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%) nazeri number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
and i hope it gives me a better understanding of  all of the complexities in the world today.
one helped me and always a refusal, even when it was about saving the lives of  children - disabled.
because of the illegal acts displayed i have no  freedom, rights or privacy and continue suffering 7+years
i recognized him instantly, i think i must have been the first.
ahmed number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
"that's muhammad ali, isn't it?"
all of today's pompous  athletes should take a lesson from this mans humility and humanity.
may allah bless him wtith long life.
i met you one night at erma's cafateria at 26th
thanks again, "doctor"!
linda number of  responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
chehnah number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
people who mistook the tv image for real missed out.
international organization of kyokushin karate (www.ikko.ws section regions.
one morning my father woke me up and told me to hurry and get dressed.
later on i became boxer i played boxing.
sign up, offer friendship and see.
to me, as a child, and still as an adult muhammad ali, will always  be my hero, and "the greatest fighter of all time"!
i lost the sight in my left eye when i was 12 in 1972...due to a sporting accident...was told i wouldn't do sport any more...
in  1985 - 86 years had two operations to survive: deleted part of the left lung,  three edges and two thirds of the stomach.
p.s. i'm know howard bingham was right there taking pictures, but i've never been able to contact him about whether or not he took any while my glove was being signed.
the picture is on display in my home, over 35 years later!
would it be possible to get his address for me to send him a  copy of my picture to him.
all my attempts to find the world of noble people, who would help me and my family no one was found, not even a single muslim has responded and now brother you're my last hope and i know brother, that you help me, for you and you can not otherwise - because you're muhammad ali and it says it all.
wassalam number of responses1 percentage of responses(3%)
like most young men, what initially impressed me was his great  fighting ability and the heart he displayed in the ring.
although i had no family to attend my graduation ceremony i can  honestly say i was the proudest graduate on stage that night.
as a boy of 12, i discovered boxing at a local boxing club.
and  as a great fan of his bought a ticket with my college roommate to his comeback  championship fight with the late great joe frazier in march of 1971.