or as ali suggested too: "round 13, round 14, round 15,  championship rounds, rounds to be no. 1!"
with the history that i had on roberto, i knew that he would win that first fight!
i fail to understand how such a huge population cannot find ample replacements.
(there's a saying: ‘fruits do not fall far from the tree...')
you must be prepared to die, to win, and become no. 1".
then they go to bangladesh for two tests and three odis, then to india for two tests and five odis.
no, he is not the best bowler in west indies, nor is he the best  batsman either.
as  former australian captain, ian chappell (who knows what it is to be no. 1,  kayoing england, 1974/5, and west indies, 1975/6) said; "india thought  that they could simply turn up, play, and just win."
you can also rest assured that they will  not be sitting back on their laurels, just waiting for something to happen.
the trouble is to hold on to those crowns.
india, with its internal cricket industry and politics, found out the hard way that is not an easy game in which to be no. 1.
we were all up, looking and listening.
on that night, june 20th 1980, i knew who would be no. 1.
everyone in the  team is overly mesmerized by the slick, stealthy and sweet sugar ray leonard,  thought to be the reincarnation of the original sugar ray robinson —  except me.
andy flower, andy strauss and the english boys have shown that with planning, hard work, dedication and considerable skills too, they can justifiably be called no. 1 in test cricket.
in 1963, when west indies beat england 3-1 in that year's test series, west indies were thought to have been no. 1, even though they had lost to australia two years earlier.
etc.), thomas hearns, wilfredo benitez and  ‘marvelous' marvin hagler — as good as any boxer could be, genuine  no. 1.
as the saying goes; "roberto wanted it more!"
etc.), thomas hearns, wilfredo benitez and ‘marvelous' marvin hagler — as good as any boxer could be, genuine no. 1.
in his career, leonard did eventually beat duran  ("no mas!"
you must be prepared to die, to win, and become  no. 1".
leonard lost because duran brawled better, having been brought up in the barrios, enduring and beating twice opponents like another legend, estanban de jesus.
all other material in this  site not owned by the pca is the property of its respective owner.
every boxer had one objective: to be no. 1.
indeed, he is not close to being the best all-rounder in the caribbean, but he deserves to have that moniker as he is team captain:
‘hands of  stone' forced ‘the sugar-man' to fight duran's fight, a grave mistake for  any no. 1.
india, with its internal cricket industry and politics, found out the hard  way that is not an easy game in which to be no. 1.
india also made mistakes in losing its no. 1 test spot to england.
so, picture it — west indies tour of england, 1980.
you can also rest assured that they will not be sitting back on their laurels, just waiting for something to happen.
worryingly though, icc's "all-time team" did not even include  (sir) garfield sobers, thought to be, at least, the best all-rounder ever, not  to mention that many think that he is the best batsman too — no. 1.
this was montreal, where sugar ray had won  gold at the 1976 olympics, at light-welterweight.
nearly 50,000 had gathered  for ‘mano y mano', leonard v duran i, one of the best boxing matches ever.
it is an interesting exercise to understand and appreciate that there are not many contenders for that position anyway.
there ought to be sanctions for looking so bad!
this was montreal, where sugar ray had won gold at the 1976 olympics, at light-welterweight.
i clearly remember boxing titans clashing; muhammad ali  v joe frazier - thrice - and especially the first roberto duran v sugar ray  leonard fight.
next month, west indies starts its asian winter in europe, with two t-20s  v world champions england at the kennington oval in london.
‘hands of stone' forced ‘the sugar-man' to fight duran's fight, a grave mistake for any no. 1.
nearly 50,000 had gathered for ‘mano y mano', leonard v duran i, one of the best boxing matches ever.
since england also won the last icc t-20 competition, they are two for two at being no. 1!
all rights  reserved.
i fail to understand how such a huge  population cannot find ample replacements.
it is an interesting exercise to  understand and appreciate that there are not many contenders for that position  anyway.
being no. 1 in anything is not that difficult — not when compared to remaining there, even for a short time.
my daughter shannon, 22 on monday 29th august, never lets me forget this: "father," she says authoritatively, "whatever happens to you, i am always your only girl, no. 1!"
with that effort against india earlier this year, one that had only one negative spot — west indies did not, as should have happened, beat india — sammy was the obvious ongoing choice.
former west indies captains clive lloyd and brian lara said it many times in their careers: "climbing that hill to be no. 1 is the easy part.
leonard was also no. 1 pugilist to make more than us$100,000,000, (one hundred million us dollars) in boxing.
they were both big, strong, determined, with one purpose, as larry holmes once said: "to kill or to be killed.
or as ali suggested too: "round 13, round 14, round 15, championship rounds, rounds to be no. 1!"
i even had a wager, for a chinese dinner — that was all that we could afford back then — with the world's no. 1 batsman then, and for some, even now, (sir) vivian richards, our own ‘smoking joe.'
with that effort against india earlier this year, one that had only one  negative spot — west indies did not, as should have happened, beat india  — sammy was the obvious ongoing choice.
remaining as no. 1 takes so much more effort."
andy flower, andy strauss and the english  boys have shown that with planning, hard work, dedication and considerable  skills too, they can justifiably be called no. 1 in test cricket.
being no. 1 in anything is not that difficult — not when compared to  remaining there, even for a short time.
that darren sammy has been continued as west indies captain is good,  sensible news.
i even had a  wager, for a chinese dinner — that was all that we could afford back then  — with the world's no. 1 batsman then, and for some, even now, (sir)  vivian richards, our own ‘smoking joe.'
shannon is correct: in whatever sphere of life, might it be sport or industry, there really is only one no. 1.
shannon is correct: in whatever sphere of life, might it be sport or  industry, there really is only one no. 1.
he is the one who has to  go out and, for 15 rounds in the olden days, or 12 nowadays, decimate all  opponents.
the  professional cricketers' association, 2006-2011.
this is a good time for west indies to start climbing back to —  hopefully — no. 1.
this is a good time for west indies to start climbing back to — hopefully — no. 1.
worryingly though, icc's "all-time team" did not even include (sir) garfield sobers, thought to be, at least, the best all-rounder ever, not to mention that many think that he is the best batsman too — no. 1.
then they go to  bangladesh for two tests and three odis, then to india for two tests and five  odis.
no-one else makes a boxer no. 1.
montreal is also where haseley crawford, still trinidad & tobago's
that darren sammy has been continued as west indies captain is good, sensible news.
he was quite magnanimous after defeat, probably his only defeat.
india took its situation for granted, thus finding that being no. 1 is not easy.
(there's a saying: ‘fruits do not  fall far from the tree...')
another no. 1, curtly ambrose, would say: "nuttin' wuk suh, jack..." i cannot remember england recently being thought of as no. 1 in test cricket, though its progress is measured by ashes series.
leonard lost because duran brawled better, having been brought up in the  barrios, enduring and beating twice opponents like another legend, estanban de  jesus.
west indies lost only one test  series — a contentious 1-0 defeat, new zealand 1979-80 — from 1976  to 1995.
that is why i had loved that sport so much then.
these days, boxing is so watered down that no-one even knows who is  fighting whom anymore.
with the history that i had on roberto, i knew that he would win  that first fight!
by colin croft my daughter shannon, 22 on monday 29th august, never lets me forget this:  "father," she says authoritatively, "whatever happens to you, i  am always your only girl, no. 1!"
no.  1 (and still only) olympic gold medal winner beat jamaica's don quarrie,  russia's valeriy borzov, usa's harvey glance and johnny jones, panama's guy  abrahams, east germany's klaus-dieter kurrat and bulgaria's petar petrove.
‘manos de piedra' hands of stone — duran was the forerunner of ‘iron' mike tyson.
remaining as no. 1 takes so much more  effort."
australia took hold from 1995 until 2009-10, similar kudos to west indies reign  as no. 1.
they looked unprepared, a  poor effort for any defending champion.
there ought to be sanctions for  looking so bad!
montreal is also where haseley crawford, still trinidad & tobago's no. 1 (and still only) olympic gold medal winner beat jamaica's don quarrie, russia's valeriy borzov, usa's harvey glance and johnny jones, panama's guy abrahams, east germany's klaus-dieter kurrat and bulgaria's petar petrove.
i clearly remember boxing titans clashing; muhammad ali v joe frazier - thrice - and especially the first roberto duran v sugar ray leonard fight.
they were  both big, strong, determined, with one purpose, as larry holmes once said:  "to kill or to be killed.
as former australian captain, ian chappell (who knows what it is to be no. 1, kayoing england, 1974/5, and west indies, 1975/6) said; "india thought that they could simply turn up, play, and just win."
crawford's effort, never repeated since, goes to show how hard it can be to be no. 1.
former west indies captains clive  lloyd and brian lara said it many times in their careers: "climbing that  hill to be no. 1 is the easy part.
next month, west indies starts its asian winter in europe, with two t-20s v world champions england at the kennington oval in london.
anyway, 11:00pm in montreal that balmy june night was 3:00am in london.
we  were all up, looking and listening.
these days, boxing is so watered down that no-one even knows who is fighting whom anymore.
when boxing was really boxing, there was only one no. 1 — champion  — in each weight group too.
they looked unprepared, a poor effort for any defending champion.
he is the one who has to go out and, for 15 rounds in the olden days, or 12 nowadays, decimate all opponents.
that is why i had loved that sport so much  then.
in 1963, when west  indies beat england 3-1 in that year's test series, west indies were thought to  have been no. 1, even though they had lost to australia two years earlier.
when boxing was really boxing, there was only one no. 1 — champion — in each weight group too.
crawford's effort, never repeated since, goes to show how hard it can be to be  no. 1.
everyone in the team is overly mesmerized by the slick, stealthy and sweet sugar ray leonard, thought to be the reincarnation of the original sugar ray robinson — except me.
another no. 1, curtly  ambrose, would say: "nuttin' wuk suh, jack..." i cannot remember england recently being thought of as no. 1 in test  cricket, though its progress is measured by ashes series.
he was quite magnanimous after  defeat, probably his only defeat.
since england  also won the last icc t-20 competition, they are two for two at being no. 1!
leonard was also no. 1 pugilist to make more than us$100,000,000, (one  hundred million us dollars) in boxing.
indeed, he is not close to being the best all-rounder in the  caribbean, but he deserves to have that moniker as he is team captain:
india  took its situation for granted, thus finding that being no. 1 is not easy.
england are sitting pretty now.
west indies lost only one test series — a contentious 1-0 defeat, new zealand 1979-80 — from 1976 to 1995.
that was a tremendously long time to be test ‘champeen'.
no, he is not the best bowler in west indies, nor is he the best batsman either.
in his career, leonard did eventually beat duran ("no mas!"
australia took hold from 1995 until 2009-10, similar kudos to west indies reign as no. 1.
neither showed great finesse.
they will go out and make things happen to keep being no. 1.
‘manos de piedra'  hands of stone — duran was the  forerunner of ‘iron' mike tyson.
now, there is no doubt about it.