happy round 70 champ.both outside and inside the ring, u av always been a source of inspiration to me.
the judge said it changed columbia university students’ understanding and point of view about the war.
so began the life of muhammad ali, who celebrates his  70th birthday today.
if he could  still stay alife till 2day fighting that disease till round 70,then am  motivated to stand tall in the face of mere challenges.
and on his glorious 70th birthday, i am privileged to salute him, with the rest of the world.
that was just  his personality, to be so giving of his time.
about 15 years ago, i was a juror in court in downtown manhattan.
joe martin, a white louisville, ky.,  policeman, told him he had better learn to fight, and in his spare time, he  took ali under his wing and taught him the ropes.
related  topics: boxing, boxing legends, esquire, etta james, george clooney,  george foreman, george lois, joe frazier, muhammad ali, muhammad ali's 70th  birthday, the greatest latest posts seven days of strange landscapes thursday, march 8, 2012 from thousands of spiders in australia and a massive ruptured ice wall in  argentina to the aftermath of the u.s. tornadoes and the wake of last year's  japanese tsunami, time’s photo department presents a selection of  surprising and surreal vistas from the past week.
his  beautiful mother odessa clay called her son “g-g” for the rest of  her life, and years later, ali would say, “after i won the golden gloves,  i told mama that from the very beginning, i was trying to say, ‘golden  gloves.’ ”
ali, above all, is the sweetest, nicest person i’ve ever met in my life.
i was not born when he was fighting, i have read extensively  about him.
when the referee raised his arm in victory, ali shouted the iconic  words that would become a self-fulfilling prophecy: “i’m gonna be  the greatest of all time!”
u av taught not ever give up in the face of challeges, thus we are not surprised that you are still standing in the ring of life.
in 1975 i called ali to talk to him about the campaign i was doing for rubin “hurricane” carter, whose book convinced me that he was an innocent man in the slammer.
we go in, and  he explains that one of the jurors was a man who changed his life.
i remember that because it speaks to the influence of ali.
after taking the picture, then i will tell the world how priviledged i was 2 stand beside the greatest boxer of all times.
he’d meet all 200  schoolkids and sign 200 autographs, often with a kid on his lap.
muhammad was so happy  to hear i thought rubin was innocent.
neil leifer is a  photographer forsports
happy round 70 champ, we love u. deji olatunji can i get to snap a picture with the champ.someone please help.
from a  narcissistic self-promoter who eventually became a man of enduring spirituality  through a journey of formidable tests, ali emerged as a true superhero in the  annals of american history and a worldwide ambassador of courage and  conviction.
deji benjamin olatunji its a dream, its heavy in my heart, am sure someone somewhere can help make  it a reality, am aware the champ has never turned down an autograph request,  all i ask for is picture with the champ.he is a great source of inspiration to  me and many others.
after the case was over, the judge asked the jury to enter and talk to him.
ali, williams, the referee, the  reporters, the symmetry, the drama — it's the one photograph i've taken  where, looking back, i'd change nothing."
ali, above all, is the sweetest, nicest person  i’ve ever met in my life.
george lois is one of advertising’s most famous art directors and  cultural provocateurs.
a boxing legend who courageously spoke up for black men and civil rights throughout his life!
mrityunjay jha extremely informative article and a fitting tribute to the boxing-legend on  his 70th birthday.
from 1962 to ’72, he art-directed several iconic  covers for esquire magazine.
deji olatunji one of ma greatest dreams is to snap a picture with the champ.can someone  some where help make this dream a reality please.
extremely informative article and a fitting tribute to the boxing-legend on his 70th birthday.
tweet tumblr muhammad ali’s first sounds were “gee-gee, gee-gee.”
but what was so incredible about ali was all the courageous and selfless things he did beyond boxing.
the personal memories of the writer only heighten the authenticity and lends interest plus inspiration to this write-up.
its a dream, its heavy in my heart, am sure someone somewhere can help make it a reality, am aware the champ has never turned down an autograph request, all i ask for is picture with the champ.he is a great source of inspiration to me and many others.
leifer is visible here,  wearing a light blue shirt and seated near the top along the left-hand side of  the ring, with his camera resting in front of him.
i could go on for a long time about the technical  aspects of the shot, how i studied the astrodome, planned the photo for weeks  before the fight, pictured the shot in my head, rigged up the remote trigger  that i used to get the shot from above while i was physically down at ringside  shooting the fight — but what makes this so special to me is that it's as  close as i've ever gotten to a perfect shot.
we’re looking at each other, and he goes, “the juror is george lois.”
joe martin, a white louisville, ky., policeman, told him he had better learn to fight, and in his spare time, he took ali under his wing and taught him the ropes.
in 1975 i called ali to talk to him about the  campaign i was doing for rubin “hurricane” carter, whose book  convinced me that he was an innocent man in the slammer.
happy round 70 champ, we love u.
it was so heroic, and of all  the times we worked together, it is still my favorite memory of him.
i also  can’t tell you how many times, when we were driving on the road,  he’d see a school and make me pull over.
he told me he was a student at columbia university in the ’60s, when there were furious debates about vietnam and draft dodgers, and how that 1968 esquire cover of ali as st. sebastian solidified the argument for ali’s decision to not participate in the draft.
can i get to snap a picture with the champ.someone please help.
on the whole, a good read!
he is indeed a great  champ.we shall go more rounds champ, u have tought us never to give  up.don’t forget the picture please.
it's the only picture of  mine that i have in my home.
just one picture with the champ.thanks!
happy round 70 champ.both outside and inside  the ring, u av always been a source of inspiration to me.
though many know him as the greatest boxer of all time, few know that it was actually the theft of his bicycle at age 12 that began his boxing career.
so began the life of muhammad ali, who celebrates his 70th birthday today.
the  real childhood incident of the man who remains an all-time-great,is pretty much  original and inspiring.
though many know him as the greatest boxer of all time, few know that it  was actually the theft of his bicycle at age 12 that began his boxing career.
i was not born when he was fighting, i have read extensively about him.
he said, “absolutely, i’m with you.”
but what was so incredible about ali was all the courageous and selfless  things he did beyond boxing.
just one picture with the  champ.thanks!
he said, “absolutely, i’m  with you.”
after the bike was stolen, ali ran to the police station, threatening to “whup whoever stole my bike.”
deji olatunji one of ma greatest dreams is to have a picture with the champ.a celebrity  who never denied an autograph, am sure there is someone, somewhere who can make  this long awaited dream a reality.
everyone is looking at me, and i’m looking at him like he’s crazy.
tuesday, january 17, 2012 | by george lois | view  comments happy birthday, muhammad ali: 70 iconic images for 70 years more on lightbox the dark side: roger ballen’s ‘asylum’ japan one year later: photographs by james nachtwey escape from syria: photographs by william daniels seven days of strange landscapes utopia/dystopia: construction and destruction in photography and collage on the trail with santorum: photographs by justin maxon neil leifer—sports illustrated muhammad ali vs. cleveland  williams at the astrodome, houston, 1966 neil leifer: "i think this is the best picture i ever made.
ali literally stopped doing a million things to help someone  — a fellow fighter — get out of jail.
we still av more rounds to go.
a boxing legend who courageously spoke up for black men and civil  rights throughout his life!
u av taught not ever give up in the face of challeges, thus we are  not surprised that you are still standing in the ring of life.
related topics: boxing, boxing legends, esquire, etta james, george clooney, george foreman, george lois, joe frazier, muhammad ali, muhammad ali's 70th birthday, the greatest from thousands of spiders in australia and a massive ruptured ice wall in argentina to the aftermath of the u.s. tornadoes and the wake of last year's japanese tsunami, time’s photo department presents a selection of surprising and surreal vistas from the past week.
it seriously got to the point that when i saw a school, i’d think, “oh my god, here we go again.
after taking the picture, then i will tell the world how  priviledged i was 2 stand beside the greatest boxer of all times.
get lightbox's daily newsletter in your inbox muhammad ali’s first sounds were “gee-gee, gee-gee.”
one of ma greatest dreams is to have a picture with the champ.a celebrity who never denied an autograph, am sure there is someone, somewhere who can make this long awaited dream a reality.
when the referee raised his arm in victory, ali shouted the iconic words that would become a self-fulfilling prophecy: “i’m gonna be the greatest of all time!”
after the bike was stolen, ali ran to the police station, threatening to  “whup whoever stole my bike.”
and on his glorious 70th birthday, i am  privileged to salute him, with the rest of the world.
i also can’t tell you how many times, when we were driving on the road, he’d see a school and make me pull over.
after the  case was over, the judge asked the jury to enter and talk to him.
he is indeed a great champ.we shall go more rounds champ, u have tought us never to give up.don’t forget the picture please.
from 1962 to ’72, he art-directed several iconic covers for esquire magazine.
ali won his first fight six  weeks later.
ali literally stopped doing a million things to help someone — a fellow fighter — get out of jail.
mj1982m@twitter.com i wish hm sound health and a gud abode in d hereafter
muhammad was so happy to hear i thought rubin was innocent.
ali won his first fight six weeks later.
read more escape from syria: photographs by william daniels out there utopia/dystopia: construction and destruction in photography and collage deji olatunji
we go in, and he explains that one of the jurors was a man who changed his life.
we’re  looking at each other, and he goes, “the juror is george lois.”
he told me he was a student at columbia university in the ’60s, when  there were furious debates about vietnam and draft dodgers, and how that 1968 esquire cover of ali as st. sebastian solidified the argument for  ali’s decision to not participate in the draft.
he’d meet all 200 schoolkids and sign 200 autographs, often with a kid on his lap.
the judge said it changed  columbia university students’ understanding and point of view about the  war.
it was so heroic, and of all the times we worked together, it is still my favorite memory of him.
that was just his personality, to be so giving of his time.
his beautiful mother odessa clay called her son “g-g” for the rest of her life, and years later, ali would say, “after i won the golden gloves, i told mama that from the very beginning, i was trying to say, ‘golden gloves.’ ”
from a narcissistic self-promoter who eventually became a man of enduring spirituality through a journey of formidable tests, ali emerged as a true superhero in the annals of american history and a worldwide ambassador of courage and conviction.
mrityunjay jha samastipur bihar india.
read more we still av more rounds to go.
george lois is one of advertising’s most famous art directors and cultural provocateurs.
it seriously got to the point  that when i saw a school, i’d think, “oh my god, here we go again.
if he could still stay alife till 2day fighting that disease till round 70,then am motivated to stand tall in the face of mere challenges.
the real childhood incident of the man who remains an all-time-great,is pretty much original and inspiring.
the personal memories of the writer only heighten the  authenticity and lends interest plus inspiration to this write-up.
one of ma greatest dreams is to snap a picture with the champ.can someone some where help make this dream a reality please.