he stuck a finger into a glass of orange juice and let a single drop fall onto his plate.
in this oct. 1, 1975, file photo, heavyweight boxer joe frazier grimaces  after muhammad ali, left, landed a blow to frazier's head during their boxing  bout in manila, the philippines.
striving for vindication was a thread that ran through ali’s life, whether he was battling racial prejudice or those who damned him for being a conscientious objector to the vietnam war.
out-of-town press was not scheduled to arrive  until the weekend.
in 1980, i was the 23-year-old, wet-behind-the-ears sports editor of the valley times in north las vegas.
••• nineteen years would pass before i would interview ali again, this time at his suite at the mirage.
ali gave me my second one-on-one interview with him.
ali’s vanity — his tremendous ego — had gotten the better  of him.
our goal is not to limit the discussion, but rather to elevate it.
“i’m of the opinion he is in good physical shape,” rogich  told me in a 1980 interview.
i think he’ll have it.”
that was the last time i saw ali, although i did interview him once more by  phone in december of 2001, when the film “ali” was released.
ali told me the message of the film was, “work hard and believe and you will be vindicated.”
it seemed unlikely that our paths would cross. earlier that year, my limited body of work as a boxing writer had been  deemed good enough for me to be invited to join theboxing writers association  of america — one of the youngest reporters ever to get that honor.
one of ali’s handlers, gene kilroy, a longtime las vegas casino  executive, gave reports on ali’s progress.
after the workout, ali invited me to his locker room, where we both watched  holmes work out.
it was less  than two months before ali’s final boxing match.
ali checked into caesars palace just before noon and by 1 p.m. was in his familiar white trunks with the black stripe, dancing in the ring before several hundred spectators who had paid $3 apiece to watch him work out.
he was about to turn 60.
his once marvelous athletic body had been devastated by parkinson’s disease.
before the interview, in front of ali, yuman warned me that ali suffered from narcolepsy, which caused him to nod off during conversations, and that i might have to get real close to ali to hear his voice as he faded into slumber.
on oct. 2, 1980, then-world heavyweight championlarry holmes pummeled ali and ended ali’s dream of winning a record fourth world title.
referring to his interactions with the spectators during his workout, ali said, “i didn’t plan on talking to them at all — i needed my wind.
ali would give up his nevada license, and the nevada athletic commission would not oppose ali getting a license to fight elsewhere.
you felt very intimidated when they approached you.
an after-fight urine test showed opiates in ali’s system.
inside my head,  however, i was saying, “yahoo!
i was a huge ali fan as a youth (i was born in 1958) and loved his artistry and bluster.
“one of the teachings of islam is that you go into the ocean and dip your finger in — the drop on your finger is your life and the whole ocean is what comes after that,” ali said.
ali told me that he had trimmed down to 233 pounds and planned to lose even  more weight so that on oct. 2, the world would see not the old man ali, but the  ali of old, dancing for 15 rounds and earning a forth reign as champion.
it was less than two months before ali’s final boxing match.
kilroy handed the phone to ali, who was relaxing in his suite at the kahler  grand hotel in rochester, reading reports from his many tests, among them a  brain scan and urine and blood samples.
the deal paved the way for ali to fight the latetrevor berbick on dec. 11, 1981, in the bahamas.
his  physician, dr. charles bennett, said he gave ali a painkiller and sedative  after the fight and before the commission doctors could get a urine sample from  ali.
he stuck a finger into a glass of  orange juice and let a single drop fall onto his plate.
now this is old vegas.
commenting requires registration.
“i’m of the opinion he is in good physical shape,” rogich told me in a 1980 interview.
the positive drug test and the poor performance led to the  commission’s hearing, which was intended to put ali out to pasture.
ali would give up his nevada license, and the nevada athletic commission  would not oppose ali getting a license to fight elsewhere.
but i had to get used to it.
i got up from the floor and looked around to see yuman; ali’s photographer, howard bingham; and ali laughing heartily over the prank they had just pulled.
nineteen years would pass before i would interview ali again, this time at  his suite at the mirage.
all of a sudden, ali “awoke” and made a roaring sound that startled me and knocked me out of my chair.
meanwhile, holmes, who played second fiddle to the entertainer ali for  months leading up to the bout, let out his pent-up aggression.
surprisingly, only a handful of reporters were on hand for ali’s  first las vegas training session.
ali lost that fight, too.
ali truly did think he was pretty — and he  was, from his handsome face and his sleek physique (in his prime) to his  surprisingly delicate hands.
ali had retired — or so he claimed  — from boxing nearly two years earlier after beatingleon spinks in a  rematch.
ali won the fight after frazier's manager  stopped the fight in the 14th round.
then again, in 1964, few people thought ali — then known as cassius clay — could beat the seemingly unstoppablesonny liston.
courtesy of ed koch muhammad ali talks to reporters after surrendering his nevada boxing  license on dec. 29, 1980, during a nevada athletic commission hearing in las  vegas.
days after the fight, ali said he was “physically unfit” to  fight holmes because he had accidentally taken an overdose of thyroid medicine  that made him too weak.
anyone really interested in knowing what he is about should read about the big shootout at 54th & broadway in los angeles ca.
malcom x has quite a history as well.
i recalled what ali had told me during our lunch at caesars palace two  decades earlier.
but despite satisfying my appetite to cover as many boxing matches as i could, i longed to interview the greatest name in that sport, or, for that matter, any sport — muhammad ali.
comments that are off-topic, vulgar, profane or include personal attacks will be removed.
he still had a bitter taste in his mouth over losing a close 15-round decision in the first spinks fight in las vegas, on feb. 15, 1978, at the hands of nevada commission-appointed judges.
in a photo from november 2000, muhammad ali, left, discusses the making of a second biographical motion picture about his career, with actor will smith starring as the former three-time world champion.
but right now i live in a million-dollar house that seven white men owned before me.
he jokingly asked if he  could have it.
that was a method of financing the organization.
“one of the teachings of islam is that you go into the ocean and dip  your finger in — the drop on your finger is your life and the whole ocean
the greatest and  magicians of a past era, joking around like kids.
but despite satisfying my appetite to cover as many boxing matches as i  could, i longed to interview the greatest name in that sport, or, for that  matter, any sport — muhammad ali.
in those days, a las vegas boxing writer could get a lot of experience really fast.
kilroy handed the phone to ali, who was relaxing in his suite at the kahler grand hotel in rochester, reading reports from his many tests, among them a brain scan and urine and blood samples.
there were weekly club boxing cards at the silver slipper; monthly  cards at the sahara, showboat and hacienda; and at least two major world  championship cards each month at such venues as caesars palace, the dunes and  the hilton.
he jokingly asked if he could have it.
i might retire, then come back in a year or two and fight again.”
the family issued a  release confirming the boxer's death on monday night, nov. 7, 2011.
but ali proved time and again he could back up the taunts and raves,  including his rhyming predictions of the rounds when he would defeat his foes.
ed koch is a former longtime sun reporter.
it seemed unlikely that our paths would cross. earlier that year, my limited body of work as a boxing writer had been deemed good enough for me to be invited to join theboxing writers association of america — one of the youngest reporters ever to get that honor.
ali’s vanity — his tremendous ego — had gotten the better of him.
i truly believed that ali truly believed he was going to win — though  i doubted anyone could beat holmes at that point.
i am old enough to say i lived in the area back then and know what i am talking about.
i remember cassius clay when he refused to take the u.s. army oath on april 28, of 1967."he__
howard cossel was his biggest publicity agent at that time.
those wishing to become a trusted commenter need toverify their identity or sign in with facebook connect to tie their facebook account to their las vegas sun account.
for more on this change,read our story about how it works and why we did it.
the event also will serve as a fundraiser for thecleveland clinic lou ruvo center for brain health and themuhammad ali center, a cultural and education complex in ali’s hometown of louisville, ky. ••• ap photo/file
before the interview, in front of ali, yuman warned me  that ali suffered from narcolepsy, which caused him to nod off during  conversations, and that i might have to get real close to ali to hear his voice  as he faded into slumber.
it meant vindication for ali, which was important to the sport’s only three-time world heavyweight champion.
i knew this would be my opportunity to talk to ali alone.
striving for vindication was a thread that ran through ali’s life,  whether he was battling racial prejudice or those who damned him for being a  conscientious objector to the vietnam war.
in short, if ali was seriously  injured or killed in the holmes fight, the commission was going to be covered.
the united states government had (30) days to take action
“he (holmes) is too old to do this — i’m older than he  is, but he’s the one who is too old, not me,” ali said as holmes  sparred, concentrating on delivering hard body punches.
ali had pulled the stunt on dozens of reporters, including the late ed bradley of “60 minutes.”
despite statements from former ali ring physician ferdie pacheco that ali  had kidney damage and from a london doctor that ali had brain damage, rogich, a  longtime ad executive and political mover and shaker, said he believed ali  could pass a physical.
meanwhile, holmes, who played second fiddle to the entertainer ali for months leading up to the bout, let out his pent-up aggression.
i recalled what ali had told me during our lunch at caesars palace two decades earlier.
i do not think he did either.
on  oct. 2, 1980, then-world heavyweight championlarry holmes pummeled ali and  ended ali’s dream of winning a record fourth world title.
© las vegas sun, 2012, all rights reserved
here, during a  photo-op in october 1980, the pair throw faux punches at boxing icon muhammad  ali; all of whom have been represented by bernie yuman.
ali told me a second biographical film about his life was in the works, starring will smith as ali, which i led with in my front-page story the following day.
he could not say enough good thing about him.
on  a blank page, he wrote, “to ed, from muhammad ali 2000.”
also pictured in ali’s  suite at the mirage are, from left, longtime ali confidant bernie yuman, former  sun reporter ed koch and ali photographer
i was happy for him because, at long last, ali had his  vindication.
frazier, the former heavyweight champion who handed ali his first defeat yet had to live forever in his shadow, has died after a brief final fight with liver cancer.
i drive expensive cars.
he was at peace because he also had found something “more to life.”
ali was so badly beaten he could not come out for the 11th round.
here, during a photo-op in october 1980, the pair throw faux punches at boxing icon muhammad ali; all of whom have been represented by bernie yuman.
this is a great story.
in the late summer of 1980, as promoter don king was putting together the  deal to pit the undefeated champ holmes against ali, the nevada athletic  commission, led by its new chairman, sig rogich, demanded that ali pass an  extensive physical in las vegas.
all of a sudden, ali “awoke” and made  a roaring sound that startled me and knocked me out of my chair.
i threw many of his newsboys out of the store i worked in.
the greatest and magicians of a past era, joking around like kids.
in his efforts to look like the ali of his prime, he had lost too much weight and, in effect, was dried out.
there has got to be more to life than this.”
is what comes after that,” ali said.
most of the in nice suits and black hats and bigger than most bouncers.
but in the next breath, rogich noted that because ali had not fought in 22 months he should be checked out thoroughly.
i really believe he got a thrill shifting into ali mode,  trash-talking rivals and performing outrageously every time a microphone was  stuck in his face or a camera was rolling.
i truly believed that ali truly believed he was going to win — though i doubted anyone could beat holmes at that point.
but ali got to go out on his own terms.
(i had predicted in my column that morning a holmes victory in the 10th round by technical knockout.)
inside my head, however, i was saying, “yahoo!
“a staff of seven of the world’s best doctors gave me the green light today, and that proved all the liars wrong,” ali told me, noting that he had been suspicious that the findings of las vegas doctors might be more political than medical.
but ali proved time and again he could back up the taunts and raves, including his rhyming predictions of the rounds when he would defeat his foes.
i have never heard statements of bitterness or complaint as he has become imprisoned in his body through the years.
ed koch, former las vegas sun reporter, is standing beside ali, taking  notes.
the event also will  serve as a fundraiser for thecleveland clinic lou ruvo center for brain health  and themuhammad ali center, a cultural and education complex in ali’s  hometown of louisville, ky. ap photo/file
i think he’ll have  it.”
ali had retired — or so he claimed — from boxing nearly two years earlier after beatingleon spinks in a rematch.
but he was fully cognizant of what was going on around him.
(the night of the fight, ali couldn’t break a sweat, and thus he could not cool down as the fight wore on.)
then again, in 1964, few  people thought ali — then known as cassius clay — could beat the  seemingly unstoppablesonny liston.
tweet reporter recalls following muhammad ali as boxer found ‘more  to life’
on sept. 21, 1981, ali’s longtime confidant and handler bernie yuman  invited me to lunch with him and ali at caesars café roma.
ali checked into caesars palace just before noon and by 1 p.m. was in his  familiar white trunks with the black stripe, dancing in the ring before several  hundred spectators who had paid $3 apiece to watch him work out.
he had dropped to 229 pounds and looked healthy.
••• on sept. 21, 1981, ali’s longtime confidant and handler bernie yuman invited me to lunch with him and ali at caesars café roma.
those beliefs were the beliefs of the black muslins.
by ed koch tuesday, feb. 14, 2012 | 2 a.m. photo illustration by jeff adamson moments before the start of the dec. 29, 1980, nevada athletic commission hearing to revokemuhammad ali’s boxing license, the legendary fighter told me: “ain’t this something — one bad day on the job and they want to fire me.”
i might retire, then come back in a year  or two and fight again.”
but right now i live in a million-dollar house that seven white men owned  before me.
on a blank page, he wrote, “to ed, from muhammad ali 2000.”
only trusted comments are displayed on this page.
he was at peace because he also had found something “more to  life.”
“you can’t be an athlete like that all  your life and not maintain some physical adeptness.
i’m going to talk to larry holmes  throughout the whole fight.
“you can’t be an athlete like that all your life and not maintain some physical adeptness.
••• ali tipped the scales at 217 1/2 pounds at the official weigh-in.
while answering my first question, ali started to slowly pass out and i leaned in to hear his answer.
“here, put this in your book,” he said.
suddenly his name changed to muhammad ali.
surprisingly, only a handful of reporters were on hand for ali’s first las vegas training session.
“he (holmes) is too old to do this — i’m older than he is, but he’s the one who is too old, not me,” ali said as holmes sparred, concentrating on delivering hard body punches.
ed koch, former las vegas sun reporter, is standing beside ali, taking notes.
after the workout, ali invited me to his locker room, where we both watched holmes work out.
in the late summer of 1980, as promoter don king was putting together the deal to pit the undefeated champ holmes against ali, the nevada athletic commission, led by its new chairman, sig rogich, demanded that ali pass an extensive physical in las vegas.
in this oct. 1, 1975, file photo, heavyweight boxer joe frazier grimaces after muhammad ali, left, landed a blow to frazier's head during their boxing bout in manila, the philippines.
i do hope this "stings like a bee".
on july 31, the commission accepted the mayo’s findings and the fight  was on.
but ali knocked out liston in seven rounds on feb. 25 in miami to win his first world title at age 22.
subscribe to the sun’s rss feeds.
asked if the holmes fight would be his last, ali said, “you never  know what i’m going to do next.
i’ll knock him out — maybe in eight rounds, maybe in nine, but no more than that.”
as he handed the scrapbook back to me, ali asked for my notepad and pen.
get your tickets now!”
courtesy of ed koch muhammad ali talks to reporters after surrendering his nevada boxing license on dec. 29, 1980, during a nevada athletic commission hearing in las vegas.
too me he is nothing but a non-american.
on july 31, the commission accepted the mayo’s findings and the fight was on.
he stated he searched his conscience and said it was not true his beliefs.
(the night of the fight, ali  couldn’t break a sweat, and thus he could not cool down as the fight wore  on.)
he now was facing to a maximum sentence of five years imprisonment and a $10,000 fine.
by ed koch tuesday, feb. 14, 2012 | 2 a.m. muhammad ali photo illustration by jeff adamson related stories lou ruvo center's world-class services are for locals, too volunteering at the ruvo center: how to lend a hand — and a heart vegas gala to celebrate muhammad ali's 70th birthday, benefit ruvo center
ali told me that he had trimmed down to 233 pounds and planned to lose even more weight so that on oct. 2, the world would see not the old man ali, but the ali of old, dancing for 15 rounds and earning a forth reign as champion.
i told him i could never replace the copies of the stories i had written so long ago.
comments should be relevant and contain no abusive language.
after results from the final  tests came in, gene said, “would you like to talk to muhammad and get it  straight from him?”
away from the tv cameras, ali was a soft-spoken gentleman who could be downright philosophical — nothing like the loudmouth showman the public saw during his long and illustrious career.
his face was puffy, and he talked in a hushed, mumbled voice that at times was almost impossible to understand.
ali tipped the scales at 217 1/2 pounds at the official weigh-in.
after the meal, ali turned philosophical.
username: password: more photos » complete listing » complete listing » complete listing » more facebook activity » 5 hours, 58 minutes ago 23 hours, 3 minutes ago 2 days ago 2 days, 2 hours ago 2 days, 20 hours ago 2 days, 21 hours ago 2 days, 22 hours ago more blogs » locally owned and independent for more than 50 years.
his physician, dr. charles bennett, said he gave ali a painkiller and sedative after the fight and before the commission doctors could get a urine sample from ali.
ali was so  overmatched that regulators believed for his own health he shouldn’t be  allowed to fight again.
twenty-two months earlier, i was cutting cold cuts for sandwiches in my  parents’ new hampshire sub shop, and now i was about to report the  historic words of a 20th century icon.
the positive drug test and the poor performance led to the commission’s hearing, which was intended to put ali out to pasture.
for ali, then 38, it indeed had been a bad day — make that night.
“holmes will run out of gas, and i’ll kick his ass!
in honor of sports icon’s upcoming birthday celebration, former sun  reporter recalls his interactions with ‘the greatest’ sun archives
i’m going to talk to larry holmes throughout the whole fight.
additionally, we now display comments from trusted commenters by default.
it meant vindication for ali, which  was important to the sport’s only three-time world heavyweight champion.
las vegas news bureau controversial and whimsical, flamboyant and powerful, few legends  encapsulate old vegas like headliners siegfried and roy.
after hours of damning testimony, ali and his lawyers cut a deal.
i was among those  columnists fueling the speculation, hoping to get an opportunity to cover an  ali fight just like my idols in boxing journalism — nat fleischer, ed  schuyler, the sun’s mike marley and others — had.
but i won’t psyche him out.
lou ruvo center helps those afflicted by diseases of memory, mood and  movement ‘power of love’ muhammad ali celebration to be broadcast on  abc, espn2 moments before the start of the dec. 29, 1980, nevada athletic commission  hearing to revokemuhammad ali’s boxing license, the legendary fighter  told me: “ain’t this something — one bad day on the job and  they want to fire me.”
ali told me a second biographical film about his life was in the works,  starring will smith as ali, which i led with in my front-page story the  following day.
after the interview, i showed ali a scrapbook i had kept of the articles and columns i had written about him over the years.
i interviewed ali about a half-dozen times between 1980 and 2000.
midway through an uncharacteristically quiet workout, ali warned doubting spectators not to waste their money betting on holmes because ali was going to shock the world again and win the fight.
but i’ve got to look into my future.
his face was puffy, and he talked in a hushed, mumbled voice that at  times was almost impossible to understand.
frazier, the former heavyweight champion  who handed ali his first defeat yet had to live forever in his shadow, has died  after a brief final fight with liver cancer.
“a staff of seven of the world’s best doctors gave me the green  light today, and that proved all the liars wrong,” ali told me, noting  that he had been suspicious that the findings of las vegas doctors might be  more political than medical.
there were weekly club boxing cards at the silver slipper; monthly cards at the sahara, showboat and hacienda; and at least two major world championship cards each month at such venues as caesars palace, the dunes and the hilton.
several of us in the press corps shook our heads over what would turn out to be a serious blunder by ali.
ed koch is a former longtime sun reporter.
i told him i could never replace the copies of the stories i had  written so long ago.
“i am going to die someday.
on saturday, ali will be honored not only for his athletic exploits but his  commitment to principles when he returns to las vegas for thekeep memory alive  power of love gala, a celebration of his 70th birthday.
i got up from the floor and looked around to see yuman; ali’s  photographer, howard bingham; and ali laughing heartily over the prank they had  just pulled.
ali won the fight after frazier's manager stopped the fight in the 14th round.
his once marvelous athletic body had been devastated by parkinson’s  disease.
but on the day the athletic commission “fired” ali, boxing’s best salesman was subdued and accepting of his fate.
comments are moderated by las vegas sun editors.
midway through an uncharacteristically quiet workout, ali warned doubting  spectators not to waste their money betting on holmes because ali was going to  shock the world again and win the fight.
on saturday, ali will be honored not only for his athletic exploits but his commitment to principles when he returns to las vegas for thekeep memory alive power of love gala, a celebration of his 70th birthday.
but he was fully cognizant of what  was going on around him.
if you would like to submit your comment as a letter to the editor, you may submit it here.
get your  tickets now!”
that was the last time i saw ali, although i did interview him once more by phone in december of 2001, when the film “ali” was released.
courtesy muhammad ali ringside circa 1970s.
in a photo from november 2000, muhammad ali, left, discusses the making of  a second biographical motion picture about his career, with actor will smith  starring as the former three-time world champion.
ali was so badly  beaten he could not come out for the 11th round.
untrusted comments have expired from this story.
the deal paved the  way for ali to fight the latetrevor berbick on dec. 11, 1981, in the bahamas.
twenty-two months earlier, i was cutting cold cuts for sandwiches in my parents’ new hampshire sub shop, and now i was about to report the historic words of a 20th century icon.
in those days, a las vegas boxing writer could get a lot of experience  really fast.
muhammad ali stepped off a flight at mccarran international airport at  10:23 a.m. on sept. 9, 1980.
so it was arranged for ali to go to rochester, minn., to the mayo clinic to undergo tests to prove he was healthy.
days after the fight, ali said he was “physically unfit” to fight holmes because he had accidentally taken an overdose of thyroid medicine that made him too weak.
(i had predicted in my column  that morning a holmes victory in the 10th round by technical knockout.)
also pictured in ali’s suite at the mirage are, from left, longtime ali confidant bernie yuman, former sun reporter ed koch and ali photographer howard bingham.
then rumors of an ali comeback started circulating.
they used the force of intimidation to sell you a trash paper called muhammad speaks.
but ali knocked out liston in seven rounds  on feb. 25 in miami to win his first world title at age 22.
asked if the holmes fight would be his last, ali said, “you never know what i’m going to do next.
we can knock ali all we want for boorishness and rampant indulgence in fleshly pleasures during his career, but he has shown exceptional grace and dignity as he has moved into his maturity.
i’ll knock  him out — maybe in eight rounds, maybe in nine, but no more than  that.”
ali had pulled the stunt on dozens of reporters, including the late ed  bradley of “60 minutes.”
referring to his interactions with the spectators during his workout, ali  said, “i didn’t plan on talking to them at all — i needed my  wind.
he was  about to turn 60.
he still had a  bitter taste in his mouth over losing a close 15-round decision in the first  spinks fight in las vegas, on feb. 15, 1978, at the hands of nevada  commission-appointed judges.
“sure, that would be nice,” i said calmly.
ali truly did think he was pretty — and he was, from his handsome face and his sleek physique (in his prime) to his surprisingly delicate hands.
away from  the tv cameras, ali was a soft-spoken gentleman who could be downright  philosophical — nothing like the loudmouth showman the public saw during  his long and illustrious career.
several  of us in the press corps shook our heads over what would turn out to be a  serious blunder by ali.
after results from the final tests came in, gene said, “would you like to talk to muhammad and get it straight from him?”
march 3, 2012 currently: 64° | complete forecast | log in username password connect with facebooklas vegas sun sun archives
so it was arranged for ali to go to rochester, minn., to the mayo clinic to  undergo tests to prove he was healthy.
it turned out to be my first-ever banner story.
but on the day the athletic commission “fired” ali,  boxing’s best salesman was subdued and accepting of his fate.
i was among those columnists fueling the speculation, hoping to get an opportunity to cover an ali fight just like my idols in boxing journalism — nat fleischer, ed schuyler, the sun’s mike marley and others — had.
ali was so overmatched that regulators believed for his own health he shouldn’t be allowed to fight again.
one of ali’s handlers, gene kilroy, a longtime las vegas casino executive, gave reports on ali’s progress.
full comments policy.
after the interview, i showed ali a scrapbook i had kept of the articles  and columns i had written about him over the years.
ali did not completely trust the nevada athletic commission.
funny, but i never thought i would say that the most dignified boxer i can think of during my lifetime is ali and the most respectable would be larry holmes, who seems like a solid citizen, watched his money and became a pillar of easton pa.
while answering my first question, ali started to slowly pass out and i  leaned in to hear his answer.
but in the next breath, rogich noted that because ali had not fought in 22  months he should be checked out thoroughly.
i really believe he got a thrill shifting into ali mode, trash-talking rivals and performing outrageously every time a microphone was stuck in his face or a camera was rolling.
the family issued a release confirming the boxer's death on monday night, nov. 7, 2011.
despite statements from former ali ring physician ferdie pacheco that ali had kidney damage and from a london doctor that ali had brain damage, rogich, a longtime ad executive and political mover and shaker, said he believed ali could pass a physical.
i was happy for him because, at long last, ali had his vindication.
he was more determined to look trim to impress his legion of fans rather than to be in better fighting shape at 224 pounds with a little fat to burn during the bout.
muhammad ali stepped off a flight at mccarran international airport at 10:23 a.m. on sept. 9, 1980.
in short, if ali was seriously injured or killed in the holmes fight, the commission was going to be covered.
in 1980, i was the 23-year-old, wet-behind-the-ears sports editor of the  valley times in north las vegas.
ali told me the message of the film was, “work hard and believe and  you will be vindicated.”
he was more determined to look trim to impress his legion of fans  rather than to be in better fighting shape at 224 pounds with a little fat to  burn during the bout.
after hours  of damning testimony, ali and his lawyers cut a deal.
in his efforts to look like the ali of his prime, he had lost too much  weight and, in effect, was dried out.
out-of-town press was not scheduled to arrive until the weekend.
••• las vegas news bureau controversial and whimsical, flamboyant and powerful, few legends encapsulate old vegas like headliners siegfried and roy.
thanks for writing and running it.