there's another reason the french dont breastfeed beyond http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/astharte/french-better-parents_b_1260779_134104605.html history | permalink | share it n0ndescript0 36 fans 6 hours ago (10:52 am) "(the who and france {in one sentence at the end of the article} recommend 2 yrs minimum)" the who recommends breast milk as supplementation, up to 24 months of age, based on the child's nutritional needs.
nearly every country on the planet is "better at parenting" http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/db025/french-better-parents_b_1260779_133945729.html history | permalink | share it
with their kids, the french deploy an authoritarian  model based on respect for elders and upholding tradition.
oh wait, apple pie's not good for us anymore either.
the contrast between french and american parenting led me to write a blog: home is funwww.home-is-fun.com because i heard too many french mom's scream at their kids in public.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/americanexpatineurope/french-better-parents_b_1260779_134110770.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
you're not going to catch a parisian  mother calling herself a "bad mom" because she forgot the snacks or  didn't pack an extra diaper.
carlos miele met à l'honneur la femme de la pampa (vidéo)
really people, its not that complicate d, use some common sense.
french parents achieve these and  other impressive feats by establishing authority, setting firm boundaries and  -- most importantly -- cultivating the invaluable attribute of patience.
i found my kids http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/cabinague/french-better-parents_b_1260779_134244652.html history | permalink | share it
young teachers in france who try new methods  are viewed with suspicion, not admiration.
they want creativity and fun in their parenting.
a "good mother" in the u.s. (a virtually  unattainable state of grace) is, by definition, a deeply involved and engaged  mother.
who wouldn't find parenting less stressful and more enjoyable in a culture that heaps benefits and assistance upon its parents and families?
love your kids, not idolize them, teach them manners and be the parent, not their friend.
given the right  encouragement and opportunities, little jack and emma could grow up to be  whatever they choose!
they succeed through memorization, competition and by giving the one (and only one) right answer.
loading comments… shortguy54 30 fans 12:39 pm on 02/09/2012 thank you for a very observant article.
when i ask the french mom's what they hope for their kids, they come up with eloquent ideals.
without the right degrees from the right schools, a french man or woman has little hope for a truly distinguished career.
first it was chinese moms we all had to be and now it's french.
we are all in this together.
how to think critically.
self-sacrifice (like giving birth without an epidural or breastfeeding into toddlerhood) is seen not as a hallmark of a devoted mother but of an overly burdened woman who needs to get a life.
126 fans 11:58 am on 02/10/2012 i didn't care too much for the first article, but this one made me happier to have been born and raised french than i have been in a long time.
france a country of 62 million people had 494 http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/natal_plum/french-better-parents_b_1260779_133934591.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
parents don't devour the  latest parenting books (there aren't many) or rethink their approach to  discipline in search of a better method.
you're not going to catch a parisian mother calling herself a "bad mom" because she forgot the snacks or didn't pack an extra diaper.
(by the way, there is no word for "parenting" in french.
french schoolchildren are not so much taught how to think as they are  filled with knowledge.
despite ms. druckerman's claims, most french parents i know  consistently raise their voices (and even their hands) to their kids to teach  them who is boss.
nothing sells better than false generaliza tions...
she cites the relevance of these benefits but quickly  shifts focus to our shared values of reading to our kids and exposing them to  activities as evidence of common ground.
americans famously want their government to keep its hands off.
its impact on the culture of parenting cannot be overstated.
i have watched many apetit francais go wild in my living room and respond to my admonishments with surprising  defiance.
this comment has not yet been posted you have exceeded your word limit by words.
a sit-on-the-floor, clap your hands, dig in the sandbox, finger painting kind of gal.
she describes a virtual parenting utopia where mothers are calm and collected (not to mention well-dressed), obedient kids don't throw tantrums and parents are deeply satisfied with family life.
as an american mom raising my own children in paris, i agree that the french do parent differently.
but does french-style  parenting provide a truly enviable and replicable framework for american  parents?
this is what preschool and extracurricular activities are for.
where the  french value tradition and solidarity, americans value innovation and  individuality.
loading... huffpost's quickread...
french parents are not expected  to abdicate their adult lives and ambitions in order to raise their children.
yelling is unnecessary.
i was not angry or threatening, and he was processing all this informatio n. i was not going to let him kick that seat, and i gave him the reason why.
ms. druckerman goes on to cite studies that show french women report greater satisfaction with childcare than their american counterparts.
loading comments… astharte 0 fans 04:45 am on 02/10/2012
france a country of 62 million people had 494 murders last year.
donwords: well, hell, the way we parent must be superior over http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/donwords/french-better-parents_b_1260779_133941695.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
they do not have the chances i did but that is because my generation had let special interests take over government and now it is all about "me" in this country and not "we" and fair chances.
i am a stay-at-home mother, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/carla_peele/french-better-parents_b_1260779_133953550.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
thank god i still have my sense of humor.
http://greatparenting.hubpages .com/ debby_carroll: omg.
(unless there is none, which i think often happens, and should cause the parent to think, why is that?)
we were healthy, loved and cared for and not obese.
french children go to  school to be trained in the time-honored traditions and lessons of french  society.
i pointed to the top of the person's head, and explained that the person sitting there could feel if his seat was being pushed.
from the get go this has been less about parenting and more about an infatuation with the french.
you obviously have not been to france or know any french people if you think americans smell better.
then we must first be willing to change american culture itself.
so, we look for schools and activities that use the  latest teaching models, employ the best teachers and most of all, praise,  support, encourage!
as ms. druckerman  correctly points out, the french rigorously guard adult time and space; hence  no toys in the living room, no toddlers in the parent's bed.
thakoon like 6 photo:
getting busy paying attention to a snack i had given him, or a book i was reading to him, his legs might start to rise up.
they work hard and make less than the average american.
the subject does not exist on the medical school cursus.
mothers i know in france simply do not do these  things.
how to get along with others, how to live their lives in a productive and successful manner that will help not only themselves but also the society they live in.
they also have "free" health care.
teachers teach, parents work, and kids play.
from the first days at their kids' preschool through high-school graduation, american middle-class parents see our children as vessels of limitless potential.
au contraire: they continue to view themselves as adults with separate lives that do not revolve strictly around their children.
fun isn't really part of the  deal.
toddlers tweens and teens global motherhood paige bradley frost blogger, parisdejavu get updates from paige bradley frost like 37 are the french really better parents?
young teachers in france who try new methods are viewed with suspicion, not admiration.
it's easier to be a disciplinarian when the child isn't yours but you're responsibl e for their behavior in order to keep your job!
national  support for mothers and families - of both the material and social variety -  shapes the way we view our responsibilities as parents.
this user has chosen to opt out of the badges program beatlesprudence beware of liberals posing as americans 136 fans 02:35 pm on 02/09/2012
because parents spend time with their kids.
jrp1947: when you look at young americans, the drug use, the http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/jrp1947/french-better-parents_b_1260779_133994068.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
now the french are better parents, too?
i've lived in france for 10 years.
fans 05:48 pm on 02/10/2012 i always said "no, because... " --
they are shocked by the idea of exorbitant preschool tuition and the financial burden healthcare places on many american families.
fans 06:27 pm on 02/09/2012
but they have lives, good morals, do not use drugs, and work hard.
well isn't that special!!!
shoot, just look at how wonderful all our children are!
thank god for grown-up glamour like 26 what's the perfect date outfit?
they succeed through memorization, competition and by  giving the one (and only one) right answer.
from the get go this has been less http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/williaml/french-better-parents_b_1260779_134481564.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
french children, she claims, don't throw temper tantrums, play contentedly by themselves, and sit quietly at mealtime without throwing food.
well, hell, the way we parent must be superior over everyone, then.
most even receive a monthly cash per-child payment that increases for each additional child they have.
i have watched many apetit francais go wild in my living room and respond to my admonishments with surprising defiance.
react amazing inspiring funny scary hot crazy important weird read more bringing up bebe , american parents , are french better parents , french and american parenting , french daycare , french parents , helicopter parenting , parenthood , parenting different cultures , parents news share this story get parents alerts sign up submit this story digg reddit stumble they dress well, produce more than a thousand varieties of cheese, and have a former supermodel for a first lady.
now, kids can have trouble rememberin g.
we hesitate to say "no" for fear (albeit somewhat  absurdly) of crushing their little spirits and landing them, one day, on the  therapist's couch.
french children go to school to be trained in the time-honored traditions and lessons of french society.
there's a lot http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/shortguy54/french-better-parents_b_1260779_133947442.html history | permalink |
now 2rgnqxlokelfimsgdv8i8a43pip0bdkp ijkomeblqmm3qvavq0trgkqa9zrbn5c9 1of 2
but the relevant  question here is nothow is it different but why?
not surprisingly, we yanks don't fare well.
so it should come as no surprise that we go about it in different ways.
tweens and teens global motherhood - advertise | - make huffpost your home page | - rss | - careers | - faq - user agreement | - privacy | - comment policy | - about us | - about our ads | - contact us - copyright © 2012 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. | -
shortguy54: thank you for a very observant article.
n0ndescript0 36 fans 6 hours ago (10:45 am)
lindacommonsense: any of the readers who are of the baby boom http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/lindacommonsense/french-better-parents_b_1260779_134027851.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/beatlesprudence/french-better-parents_b_1260779_133976018.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
my grown kids are not perfect
parents in france are not invited  to volunteer in the classroom and parent-teacher conferences happen by  appointment.
more in parents... diane aulger, mom, had labor induced to... attack of the mean mommy my child's dream: to have friends for  happy couples (and happy kids) ......
..and they, like families of all nations, have moments when home is no fun at all.
where they seek to cultivate qualities of patience and intellectual uniformity we strive for entrepreneurialism and originality.
i've started doing workshops on "how to give instructions so that kids want to follow" because the french moms begged me to do so!
in the most medicated country in europe, mothers rely on doctors for information, and obviously dont get it.
miley cyrus makes a big chop like 40 nyfw dispatch: diane von furstenberg like 8 photos:
loading comments… huffpost super user donwords 24 fans 12:16 pm on 02/09/2012
like 1 'mama, will you be my balentime?'
she describes a virtual parenting utopia where mothers are calm and  collected (not to mention well-dressed), obedient kids don't throw tantrums and
they use methods  that many american middle-class parents today view as outmoded and even  dangerous.
that can come when they are adults.
posted: 02/ 7/2012 3:34 pm
and while french children are often quite obedient in their parents' presence, their penchant for self-control diminishes quickly when they're away from mom and dad.
you have obviously never been to france, which has a society just as diverse as the us.
most even receive a monthly cash per-child payment that increases for  each additional child they have.
share your comment: post to facebook.
our two cultures value very different things.
loading comments… huffpost super user debby carroll author, raising amazing children 30 fans 11:59 am on 02/11/2012 omg.
as ms. druckerman correctly points out, the french rigorously guard adult time and space; hence no toys in the living room, no toddlers in the parent's bed.
even in the earliest grades, teachers are feared and classrooms are run with an almost militaristic precision.
unless they are starving for attention, but that's a different problem.
from the first days  at their kids' preschool through high-school graduation, american middle-class  parents see our children as vessels of limitless potential.
it's  just not french.
he looked at the man in front of him, and at me.
posted: 02/ 7/2012 3:34 pm react weird read more bringing up bebe ,  american parents  ,  are french better parents  ,  french  and american parenting ,  french daycare  ,  french parents  ,  helicopter  parenting ,  parenthood  ,  parenting different cultures  ,  parents news share this story sign up submit this story digg reddit stumble they dress well, produce more than a thousand varieties of cheese, and have  a former supermodel for a first lady.
but everybody deserves a reason for a rule.
in the u.s., one can drop out,  invent something in a garage, end up on the cover oftime magazine and  even change the world.
the french expect the state (through free, high-quality daycare, schools and healthcare) to offer a helping hand in raising their kids.
loading comments… page: 1 2 3 4 5 next › last » (5 total) new comment(s) on this entry — click to refresh loading comments… follow us connect with your friends check out stories you might like, and see what your friends are sharing!
national support for mothers and families - of both the material and social variety - shapes the way we view our responsibilities as parents.
do so strictly because they've done their own homework.
unlike in the u.s.,  academic success is still essential for professional excellence in france.
loading twitter module... most popular on huffpost y30dallj36eui2u4prpdgmoby9vyqrp3axjagb%2fvjdfok19dscoqkw7epgzn71qv4%2fgihkl7tlbfhews%2b8x6vx3ydsrsnspc o2p6noyumygzekunlue6tq%3d%3d 1 of 2 16 grammys looks that weren't working like 243
we therefore define "good parenting" in vastly different ways.
loading comments… lindacommonsense 0
the french do not have gov't paid nannies who come into their home to take care of their children.
it's just not french.
i am a stay-at-home mother, and an american, and spend pretty much all of my time with my kids.
one american city has as many murders as an entire country?
like 106 don't miss huffpost bloggers 1 of 5 robert redford 24 hours to stop the pipeline - be the solution orlando jones i will always love you leo w. gerard kicking underdogs when they’re down roma downey a parenting mantra that works jamie lee curtis blame it on the fame game?
loading... edition: u.s. ca canada québec fr france us united states uk united kingdom - | - mail - | - click here to return to aol.com smarter ideas more - parent coach - moms - babies - teens log in february 13, 2012 like 10k connect - front page - u.s. uk canada québec france - politics - 2012 blog huffpost hill 2012 elections fundrace - green pollster speculatron off the bus - business - entertainment - celebrity entertainment music radio - movies tv games comedy - tech - tech techcrunch joystiq - science engadget apple blog - media - life & style - style news stylelist food news weddings parents green - travel stylelist home kitchen daily divorce huff/post50 religion - culture - arts parents travel college - religion impact books education - comedy - healthy living - health and fitness health news - mindful living sleep - women - local - new york san francisco denver miami patch - chicago los angeles dc detroit yellow pages - more - good news science blackvoices sports world gay voices - green latinovoices college crime weird news high school parents pregnancy newborns and babies
post comment edit cancel click here to leave a comment.
the stereotype of the "stinky french" came from wwii and the liberation of paris.
kids don't want to misbehave just for the sake of it.
and while french children are often quite obedient  in their parents' presence, their penchant for self-control diminishes quickly  when they're away from mom and dad.
in fact, she's not going to say it at all.
loading comments… huffpost super user golfinkatiekat77 you've got a friend!
more in parents... diane aulger, mom, had labor induced to... attack of the mean mommy my child's dream: to have friends for happy couples (and happy kids) ......
toronto more big news pages » - front page - u.s. uk canada québec france - politics - 2012 blog huffpost hill 2012 elections fundrace - green pollster speculatron off the bus - business - entertainment - celebrity entertainment music radio - movies tv games comedy - tech - tech techcrunch joystiq - science engadget apple blog - media - life & style - style news stylelist food news weddings parents green - travel stylelist home kitchen daily divorce huff/post50 religion - culture - arts parents travel college - religion impact
anyone who breastfeeds for biological ly normal rates (the who and france {in one sentence at the end of the article} recommend 2 yrs minimum)
"it's  not the way we were taught," several of them said with alarm.
unlike in the u.s., academic success is still essential for professional excellence in france.
our parenting styles serve different goals.
as the gdp stands currently, the fewer babies breastfed, the better the gdp does.
french parents are not sitting home sipping wine while someone else takes care of their children.
they are shocked by the idea of exorbitant  preschool tuition and the financial burden healthcare places on many american  families.
but the relevant question here is nothow is it different but why?
so, before we abandon american parenting practices in favor of the french, we must ask ourselves what end we hope to achieve and what supports we're willing to put in place to help parents achieve it.
americans smell better than the french as we know how to bathe and use anti-perspiration and deodorizin g body products!
everyone has their own  sphere and their own separate job to do.
the french expect the  state (through free, high-quality daycare, schools and healthcare) to offer a  helping hand in raising their kids.
golfinkatiekat77: well isn't that special!!!
loading comments… this user has chosen to opt out of the badges program beatlesprudence beware of liberals posing as americans 136 fans 11:43 am on 02/09/2012 france, also, is not a melting pot, like us, that hosts several cultures with different upbringings.
mom had labor induced to let dying father see daughter my child's dream for the future: to have friends hot on facebook 2rgnqxlokelfimsgdv8i8tkpvbq8xpkmgyinrec4w8w%3d ijkomeblqmm3qvavq0trgptaykcdranfpr%2bnvsqa9qm%3d jpekjkgss0bjplrx0pv4fss35vaam%2fhsd5arroaf1ya%3d m0d2m6rkvojm8e%2bmo6rtlq%3d%3d 1 of 3 watch: they're back!
th ey pay taxes for it.
- comments - 104 - pending comments - 0 - view faq previewing your comment.
it was  therefore suspicious and unwelcome.
whatfreshhellisthis: one of the most important words in raising children is http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/whatfreshhellisthis/french-better-parents_b_1260779_133961109.html history | permalink | share it huffpost community moderator cabinague
fans 06:49 am on 02/10/2012
so,  before we abandon american parenting practices in favor of the french, we must  ask ourselves what end we hope to achieve and what supports we're willing to  put in place to help parents achieve it.
huffpost's quickread...
so, we look for schools and activities that use the latest teaching models, employ the best teachers and most of all, praise, support, encourage!
remember when being a mom was as easy and as all-american as apple pie?
saying "the who recommend breast feeding for a minimum of 2 years" is misleading, even though it's not technically wrong.
loading comments… jrp1947 35 fans 03:55 pm on 02/09/2012
i never said to my kids, "if you do that again, i'm gonna kill you!"
american parents, however, often have the opposite experience: our  kids are angels at school and at friend's houses but become deaf mini-tyrants  at home.
i was recently chatting with a group of french moms about a new teacher's approach at our kids' school.
the book recounts druckerman's personal experience raising kids in paris and compares american parenting to the french model.
nothing sells better than false generalizations... http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/n0ndescript0/french-better-parents_b_1260779_134646806.html history | permalink | share it n0ndescript0 36 fans 5 hours ago (11:31 am) that is to say, thank you for calling b.s. on ms. druckerman.
the answer is simple.
given the right encouragement and opportunities, little jack and emma could grow up to be whatever they choose!
of course french parents are given in-home help by the government when they bring a new baby home.
any of the readers who are of the baby boom age, can read the original article, and say, wow, that's how i was raised, with manners, not speaking over adults, having our afternoon snacks, etc.
french home life is like  this, too -- structured and based on age-old models.
but this misses the point.
not one scrap of information in the 7 year program.
its impact on the  culture of parenting cannot be overstated.
who wouldn't find parenting less stressful and  more enjoyable in a culture that heaps benefits and assistance upon its parents  and families?
this was the most idiotic, insulting and uninformed post i've read in a long time.
a seperate box for daily life.
books education - comedy - healthy living - health and fitness health news - mindful living sleep - women - local - new york san francisco denver miami patch - chicago los angeles dc detroit yellow pages - more - good news science blackvoices sports world gay voices - green latinovoices college crime weird news high school parents pregnancy newborns and babies toddlers
loading comments… peachpage01 189 fans 01:31 pm on 02/09/2012 good article.
and let's not forget "love", love between the parents who more than likely sleep in the same bed with each other and not the children.
they use methods that many american middle-class parents today view as outmoded and even dangerous.
that is to say, thank you for calling b.s. on http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/n0ndescript0/french-better-parents_b_1260779_134656231.html history | permalink | share it
where the french value tradition and solidarity, americans value innovation and individuality.
they teach them how to read and write.
different cultures are more, well, hostle, outspoken, regardless of public civility.
it seemed we all turned out fine.
this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
home is fun develops tools to help families put into practice their parenting strategies .
just one simple, firm no.
why not give them justification?
there's a lot to learn here for both sides!
parents in france are not invited to volunteer in the classroom and parent-teacher conferences happen by appointment.
voices green latinovoices college crime weird news high school parents pregnancy newborns and babies toddlers tweens and teens  global motherhood paige bradley frost get updates from paige bradley frost like are the french really better parents?
mom had labor induced to let dying father see daughter like 3k 12 grammys stars who gave good style like 44 nyfw dispatch:
this notion of motherhood strikes the french as patently absurd.
http://www.who.int/features/qa /21/en/index.html n0ndescript0:
in the u.s., one can drop out, invent something in a garage, end up on the cover oftime magazine and even change the world.
when you look at young americans, the drug use, the poverty, the behavior of the children under sixteen in america today and it is no wonder one and probably many more countries are ahead of us.
despite ms. druckerman's claims, most french parents i know consistently raise their voices (and even their hands) to their kids to teach them who is boss.
france is a nationality.
mothers i know in france simply do not do these things.
astharte: excellent analysis!
fans 08:35 am on 02/10/2012 i am an american mother of four boys all born and raised in paris.
when my son was little and on a plane, his legs went up toward the seat in front of him.
loading comments… this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
loading comments… indigoinfrance 1 fans 01:25 pm on 02/11/2012 agreed with 'americane xpatineuro pe'.
a sit-on-the-floor, clap your hands, dig in the sandbox, finger  painting kind of gal.
then i inquire what they do on an everyday basis to develop these ideals, they respond, "mais, c'est une autre histoire!"
"it's not the way we were taught," several of them said with alarm.
first it was chinese moms we all had to http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/debby_carroll/french-better-parents_b_1260779_134359287.html history | permalink | share it
french schoolchildren are not so much taught how to think as they are filled with knowledge.
i stopped them; pointed -- no words needed now -- he looked at the top of the man's head and lowered his legs.
its strategic move to not train health professionals.
i take offense to that---
and let's not forget "love", love between the http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/peachpage01/french-better-parents_b_1260779_133960238.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
my son was born here.
please click the "edit" button and shorten your comment.
american parents, however, often have the opposite experience: our kids are angels at school and at friend's houses but become deaf mini-tyrants at home.
blogger login: blogger password: select blog: refresh list remember me: wordpress host: wordpress login: wordpress password: remember me: typepad host: typepad login: typepad password: select blog: refresh list remember me: tumblr login: tumblr password: remember me: community notice: we've made some changes to our badge program, including the addition of our newest badge: community curator.
french parents are not expected to abdicate their adult lives and ambitions in order to raise their children.
there's another reason the french dont breastfeed beyond a few weeks or months at the most.
fun isn't really part of the deal.
receiver dies at 59 nfl course à la chefferie du ndp:
only about 55 percent of french women breastfeed at all and most  wean their babies after three months.
then we must first be willing to change american culture  itself.
ms. druckerman goes on to cite studies that show french  women report greater satisfaction with childcare than their american  counterparts.
bill mckibben keystone xl: time for the senate to show some courage most discussed
at least until someone says that latvian or albanian or chilean moms have better ones.
parents are deeply satisfied with family life.
parents don't devour the latest parenting books (there aren't many) or rethink their approach to discipline in search of a better method.
loading comments… whatfreshhellisthis 49 fans 01:34 pm on 02/09/2012
excuse me while i go pass my son off to a nanny, while i sit around in my own stink, drinking wine and eating bonbons.
loading comments… deniseinparis 0
post comment preview comment to reply to a comment: click "reply" at the bottom of the comment; after being approved your comment will appear directly underneath the comment you replied to.
but does french-style parenting provide a truly enviable and replicable framework for american parents?
i didn't care too much for the first article, but http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/hermao/french-better-parents_b_1260779_134163518.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
these might not work for everyone, but they made my life a lot simpler, and i think it was also easier for my kids.
fans 01:26 pm on 02/09/2012
so claims pamela druckerman in her new book, "bringing up bebe ," the latest installment in the foreigners-are-better-parents genre.
a "good mother" in the u.s. (a virtually unattainable state of grace) is, by definition, a deeply involved and engaged mother.
but once you have said it, you must follow through and not give in.
no pediatrici an has to go into the effects of hamlet (the tumor killing effect) or the reason why longer is better.
a different view from paris
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/indigoinfrance/french-better-parents_b_1260779_134372766.html history | permalink | share it
mode (vidéo) à 12 ans, il a déjà tout compris aux filles saint-valentin dara watson missing: cops suspect suicide in fiance shooting crime warren allen, hiv positive man, gets over 3 years for child sex assault and child pornography
view comment you have not right to carry out this operation or error this operation.
so, while our parents are out here busting their @$$e$ to make ends meet and pay for things like health care, the french sit on their duffs sipping wine while the nanny handles the children!
even in the earliest grades, teachers are feared and classrooms  are run with an almost militaristic precision.
if you do underestimate it, then i'd imagine you don't have one.
because if they had done it again, i'd have had to kill them.
with their kids, the french deploy an authoritarian model based on respect for elders and upholding tradition.
french home life is like this, too -- structured and based on age-old models.
you really should educate yourself before you make comments about things you have no knowledge of.
huffpost super user carla peele 5 fans 01:03 pm on 02/09/2012
i found my kids very willing to cooperate when they understood i had reasons.
hmmm, somebody is doing something right over there at some level.
it was therefore suspicious and unwelcome.
au contraire: they continue to view themselves as adults with separate  lives that do not revolve strictly around their children.
new york san francisco denver miami patch chicago los angeles dc detroit yellow pages more good news science blackvoices sports world gay
the  book recounts druckerman's personal experience raising kids in paris and  compares american parenting to the french model.
french children, she  claims, don't throw temper tantrums, play contentedly by themselves, and sit  quietly at mealtime without throwing food.
big news pages whitney houston: le mystère reste entier sur les raisons de sa mort tendances 'transformers 4': michael bay confirms he'll direct after 'pain and gain'; new film due on june 29, 2014 video freddie solomon dead: former dolphins, 49ers
do we truly want to change the culture of american parenting?
sophia grace and rosie's awesome rap 26 things parents can't do hot on twitter 2rgnqxlokelfimsgdv8i8f8ym0hhxtuf ijkomeblqmm3qvavq0trgdrc%2banufz3b 1of 2 rt @jackschofield greece riots photos: athens burns, at huffpo http://t.co/fzvztxd1 (gallery); business insider http://t.co/rhsdh8vx jackschofield greece riots photos: athens burns, at huffpo http://t.co/fzvztxd1 (gallery); business insider http://t.co/rhsdh8vx retweet rt @lcvoters robert redford: "24 hours to stop the pipeline - be the solution" http://t.co/vsgwvyx1 #nokxl lcvoters robert redford: "24 hours to stop the pipeline - be the solution" http://t.co/vsgwvyx1 #nokxl retweet huffpost's
i always said "no, because..." --
never underestimate a happy love life when it comes to a happy family.
just the fact of being with their kids and sharing time with them will teach the kids and help them grow into helpful, caring, and responsible adults db025:
williaml: thank you.
americans famously want their government to  keep its hands off.
everyone has their own sphere and their own separate job to do.
not one course, one lesson, one discussion.
view all favorites recency | popularity page: 1 2 3 4 5 next › last » (5 total)
that's another story.
loading comments… huffpost super user db025 90 fans 12:32 pm on 02/09/2012
peachpage01: good article.
of course french parents are given http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/golfinkatiekat77/french-better-parents_b_1260779_133958944.html history | permalink | share it americanexpatineurope 0
"the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc.
philadelphia, a city of 1.4 million people will have close to that this year alone.
so it should come as no  surprise that we go about it in different ways.
bill gates why our foundation invests in india michael moore a 75th anniversary for the american dream, a 25-year anniversary for me geoffrey r. stone of contraceptives and same-sex marriage norman lear i had a dream...
beatlesprudence: no, different.
loading comments… natal plum 159 fans 11:47 am on 02/09/2012 lessee.
one box for life strategies.
they do have "free" preschool (starts at 3 years old) which is part of the education system this really isn't "free"............
you really have no idea what you are talking about.
"(the who and france {in one sentence at the end http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/n0ndescript0/french-better-parents_b_1260779_134648126.html history | permalink | share it this comment has been down-ranked into oblivion.
the current batch of parents, including loads of baby boomers, lost their nerve to act the part of the parent, that is to say no, when you mean no.
les candidats s'appuient sur des sondages concurrents politique mick jagger, obama: le leader des rolling stones chantera à la maison-blanche élections américaines fashion week:
beatlesprudence: france, also, is not a melting pot, like us, that http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/beatlesprudence/french-better-parents_b_1260779_133933792.html history | permalink | share it shortguy54 30 fans 12:40 pm on 02/09/2012
loading comments… huffpost super user hermao conservatism is intellectual laziness.
where they seek to cultivate qualities of patience and  intellectual uniformity we strive for entrepreneurialism and originality.
the french bathe everyday and use deodorant just like americans.
americanexpatineurope:
this  is what preschool and extracurricular activities are for.
its a political choice.
she cites the relevance of these benefits but quickly shifts focus to our shared values of reading to our kids and exposing them to activities as evidence of common ground.
of course they love their kids...it's just hard to notice sometimes.
we need to start saying no, living within our means, and kicking credit cards and credit out of our lives.
self-sacrifice (like  giving birth without an epidural or breastfeeding into toddlerhood) is seen not  as a hallmark of a devoted mother but of an overly burdened woman who needs to  get a life.
some call it "the art of being a parent" others also call it "education " which is the same word mrs. druckerman used to translate "discipline.") deniseinparis: i am an american mother of four boys all born http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/deniseinparis/french-better-parents_b_1260779_134121091.html history | permalink | share it huffpost super user williaml 145 fans 07:37 am on 02/12/2012
keep in mind that the articles here are penned by young authors, so please keep criticism respectful, and help us to keep this a safe and supportive place for writers of all ages to contribute.
we therefore define "good parenting" in  vastly different ways.
indigoinfrance: agreed with 'americanexpatineurope'.
i explained it again when my son tried again (though i already had my hand to stop him).
only about 55 percent of french women breastfeed at all and most wean their babies after three months.
shortguy54: you have obviously never been to france, which has a http://www.huffingtonpost.com/social/shortguy54/french-better-parents_b_1260779_133947748.html history | permalink | share it
i was recently chatting with a group  of french moms about a new teacher's approach at our kids' school.
another rule that i followed was never to threaten unless i was prepared to do whatever i threatened.
and with all of the attendant problems!
one of the most important words in raising children is one that many of today's parents are for some reason reluctant to use: no.
we hesitate to say "no" for fear (albeit somewhat absurdly) of crushing their little spirits and landing them, one day, on the therapist's couch.
french parents achieve these and other impressive feats by establishing authority, setting firm boundaries and -- most importantly -- cultivating the invaluable attribute of patience.
nearly every country on the planet is "better at parenting" that they u.s.
as an american mom raising my own children in paris, i agree  that the french do parent differently.
without the right degrees from the right schools, a french man or woman has  little hope for a truly distinguished career.
do we truly want to change the culture  of american parenting?
huffpost high school welcomes a lively, thoughtful debate in the comment section.