research in adults suggests that the two drugs stack up equally well, yet investigations into their use in children have yielded mixed results.
my account | 1-858-847-7310 | 中文 news articles are posted here for your information only and are not altered in any way from the source.
the no. 1 place  americans shop chinese herbs search: acetaminophen & ibuprofen more health news news articles are posted here for your information only and are not  altered in any way from the source.
"but, taken as a whole, the studies we reviewed provide no  evidence that one drug is any less safe than the other," he noted.
source: archives of pediatrics and adolescent medicine, june 2004.
perrott, who is now based at trialgraphix in chicago, explained that ibuprofen may do a slightly better job of reducing kids' fever than acetaminophen partly because it relies on a different mechanism to reduce temperature.
sometimes we may  have comments on certain news reports and these comments are clearly labelled  as so.
he added that the current study looks only at instances where kids got a  single, regulated dose of the drugs.
both drugs also appeared to be equally safe, and just as harmless as an  inactive placebo.
"there has been a tendency for (general practitioners), pediatricians,  pharmacists and nurses to emphasize the common perception that acetaminophen is  safer than ibuprofen," study author dr. david a. perrott told reuters  health.
"there has been a tendency for (general practitioners), pediatricians, pharmacists and nurses to emphasize the common perception that acetaminophen is safer than ibuprofen," study author dr. david a. perrott told reuters health.
activeherb technology, inc., 11588 sorrento valley road, suite 17, san diego,  ca 92121 †these statements have not been evaluated by the food and  drug administration.
it by no means reflects our own views on the topic.
the source and the date of news are also included.
perrott cautioned that these findings are based on scant research comparing how well and safely ibuprofen and acetaminophen work for children.
currently, acetaminophen and ibuprofen are the most common treatments used to relieve pain and fever.
perrott cautioned that these findings are based on scant research comparing  how well and safely ibuprofen and acetaminophen work for children.
they are not to replace the advice of your physicians.
the source and the date of news are also  included.
"but, taken as a whole, the studies we reviewed provide no evidence that one drug is any less safe than the other," he noted.
news articles are posted here for your information only and are not altered in any way from the source.
he added that the current study looks only at instances where kids got a single, regulated dose of the drugs.
2004 new york (reuters health) - ibuprofen (in painkillers such as advil) and acetaminophen (for example, tylenol) both appear to treat children's common aches and pains equally safely and well -- based on a review of published medical studies.
the investigators found that both drugs appeared to treat children's pain equally well, although ibuprofen appeared somewhat better at reducing fever.
(c) 2003-2011, activeherb technology, inc.
contents in www.activeherb.com is for information purpose  only and are written to our best knowledge and expertise for the scientific  accuracy.
news-- acetaminophen, ibuprofen both ok for kids by alison mccook jun 10,
perrott, who is now based at trialgraphix in chicago, explained that  ibuprofen may do a slightly better job of reducing kids' fever than  acetaminophen partly because it relies on a different mechanism to reduce  temperature.
currently, acetaminophen and ibuprofen are the most common treatments used  to relieve pain and fever.
home | about activeherb |   contact us | privacy policy | where to buy locally | wholesale order help:  ways to order | mail order |  邮购 | shipping cost | return policy | international order | order faq (c) 2003-2011, activeherb technology, inc.
any reproduction without in its entirety and without explicit credits  to activeherb is prohibited.
"we did not review studies examining  what happens when you take combinations of the drugs or repeated doses over  time," perrott noted.
indeed, in the archives of pediatrics and adolescent medicine report, he and his colleagues recommend "more research" into the safety and effectiveness of these two drugs in treating kids' pain or fever from ailments such as headaches, muscle aches and colds or the flu.
"we did not review studies examining what happens when you take combinations of the drugs or repeated doses over time," perrott noted.
indeed, in the archives of pediatrics and adolescent medicine report, he  and his colleagues recommend "more research" into the safety and  effectiveness of these two drugs in treating kids' pain or fever from ailments  such as headaches, muscle aches and colds or the flu.
to get a clearer picture, perrott and colleagues reviewed 17 trials  involving children and teens less than 18 years old "receiving either drug  to treat fever or moderate to severe pain."
2004 new york (reuters health) - ibuprofen (in painkillers such as advil) and  acetaminophen (for example, tylenol) both appear to treat children's common  aches and pains equally safely and well -- based on a review of published  medical studies.
the investigators found that both drugs appeared to treat children's pain  equally well, although ibuprofen appeared somewhat better at reducing fever.
we reserve the copyright to protect our  contents.
activeherb technology, inc., 11588 sorrento valley road, suite 17, san diego, ca 92121
both drugs also appeared to be equally safe, and just as harmless as an inactive placebo.
this product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or  prevent any disease.
the research  cited in our contents are published in scientific journals and have not  subjected to the fda evaluation.
the study was partly funded by boots healthcare australia pty ltd, a  division of boots healthcare international, which makes a form of ibuprofen.
research in adults suggests that the two drugs stack  up equally well, yet investigations into their use in children have yielded  mixed results.
sometimes we may have comments on certain news reports and these comments are clearly labelled as so.
the study was partly funded by boots healthcare australia pty ltd, a division of boots healthcare international, which makes a form of ibuprofen.
to get a clearer picture, perrott and colleagues reviewed 17 trials involving children and teens less than 18 years old "receiving either drug to treat fever or moderate to severe pain."