rss text size: - + "housewares," sponsored by the international housewares assn  (iha), is one of my favorite shows.
no preheating is necessary, and you can broil, roast, grill, steam, fry, dehydrate and bake in it.www.hearthware.com fagor america inc. offers a line of mini dutch oven cookware under the michelle b label (chef michelle bernstein).
the handles are attached by rivets, which  will never loosen and allows the pans to be placed in an oven set at any  temperature.
available in both  round and rectangle shapes they conveniently nest and stack.
he has worked with ergo chef to designthe knuckle sandwich series of knives.
histilt  & mix bowls (set of three) are constructed of stainless steel with  slip-resistant rubber on the bottom of each bowl.
a recipe book is also included.www.tefal.com mastrad debuted its new 11-inch round silicone chip maker.
ceo john mclemore showcased masterbuilt's newbutterball indoor electric turkey fryer xl (yes, it's safe to use indoors) and can accommodate up to a 20-lb turkey.
saving space is top of mind, so mini-everything and single serve was a hot  trend.
or masterbuilt's electric smokehouse  w/remote, with a digital thermostat and remote timer, allows you to simply  throw in your meat and the smoker does the rest.
and, it comes in six bold and  vibrant colors.www.nespresso.com hearthware home products launches its nuware mini infrared oven (it even has a handle), designed to address the space limitations of  dorms, offices, apartments and boats.
the adjustable, conical burr grinder offers the flexibility to brew coffee to  your exact preference, while the innovative anti-clogging technology provides  hassle-free maintenance.
he has worked with  ergo chef to designthe knuckle sandwich series of knives.
a circular diffuser at the base of the grillex evenly convects  the heat creating a perfect environment for cooking any variation of meats,  vegetables, fruits and more, so a full meal for four can be served in just 20  minutes.www.grillex.com masterbuilt manufacturing co. ceo john  mclemore showcased masterbuilt's newbutterball indoor electric turkey  fryer xl (yes, it's safe to use indoors) and can accommodate up to a  20-lb turkey.
external venting reduces humidity within the machine  and prevents clogging of coffee grounds, while the grinder chute is easily  accessed through a lockable, clear plastic cover on the top of the unit, making  it easy to see when cleaning is necessary.www.saeco-usa.com obol's swoop n scoop is the first product that solves the  frustrating problem of soggy cereal.
the mini-tools meet cpsia lead and phthalate  limits.www.tmadeproducts.com cuisipro presented snap-fit pop  molds that make it easy to create frozen pops.
the stay-cool handle is constructed from cast stainless steel with a silicone grip.
the silicone bag set, ideal for icing, decorating, filling pastries, or creating hors d'oeuvres and appetizers.
mark your drink with the non-toxic metallic markers.
meanwhile, mix together fresh ingredients, and add to the cold freezer bowl.
nesting at home continues to be the most important lifestyle trend as consumers continue to watch their pocketbooks.
lifetime brands' stackable water  bottle, made of eastman tritan, incorporates an expanding lid system that locks  the lid into the bottle creating an airtight seal.
external venting reduces humidity within the machine and prevents clogging of coffee grounds, while the grinder chute is easily accessed through a lockable, clear plastic cover on the top of the unit, making it easy to see when cleaning is necessary.www.saeco-usa.com obol's swoop n scoop is the first product that solves the frustrating problem of soggy cereal.
"they are enjoying a level of health and intelligence their  parents did not have," says mirabile.
the bristles are also made of silicone and  can withstand high temperatures.
you can add  flavors or carbonate water or soda.www.sodastreamusa.com easy  does it from world kitchen, pyrex no-leak-lids products feature a functional and contemporary design that will not absorb  stains or odors, are bpa-free, leak-proof and the airtight plastic lids have a  vent for microwaving quickly and easily – great idea.
the stay-cool handle is constructed  from cast stainless steel with a silicone grip.
on a more serious note, he points out cookware and kitchen electrics are benefiting from the do-it-yourself-at-home trend, also influenced by cooking programs on tv.
the base also doubles as a light-duty griddle.
incidentally, fieri predicts  "low and slow" bbq will become more popular than "hot and  fast" grilling.www.ergochef.com and speaking of rock and roll,  lodge manufacturing debuted the coolestcast iron guitar skillet that measures 10.75 inches long by 4.67 inches wide.
just pop and serve your buttered popcorn and enjoy the movie.
its fiesta brand also celebrated its 75 anniversary with the release of a limited edition plate and soup tureen in marigold.
it would be a perfect gift – hint, hint.www.lodgemfg.com new technology phase brew 8-cup coffee brewer by bunn heats and holds water until it reaches the perfect temperature – so it can be spray-released, instead of slow-dripped, over coffee grounds to achieve ideal flavor extraction.
the sou vjde technique involves vacuum-sealing food in airtight  pouches, then simmering the pouches in a low-temperature water bath with a  precisely maintained temperature throughout (typically between 140 and 190  degrees) the cooking time to lock in nutrients.
www.emerils.com healthy is as healthy does t-fal actifry looks like a deep fryer, but just  add one tablespoon of oil and you can cook most anything – meat, seafood,  vegetables, fruits and pasta.
a light flashes and  alarms sound when the turkey is done.http://parasia-international.com kiddin' around perfect for mini chefs, baby cakes cupcake maker, donut maker and whoopie pie maker create  adorable tiny, individual versions of those snacks in just a few minutes.
the blades are made from zirconium oxide powder, compressed at high pressures and sintered in furnaces at temperatures of more than 2,700 degrees, so the hardness of the blade is comparable to that of a diamond.www.swissarmy.com as the kitchen emerges as the central hub of the home and both the novice cook and expert foodie constantly sharpen their cooking skills, the need for functional, stylish and well-designed tools has never been greater!
convenient extras like condiment and paper towel storage, accessory tool hooks, and locking rubber wheels combine to take backyard performance to the next level.
the molds snap together  to pop into the freezer, to serve and to snore.
the dishwasher safe lid, drain valve and removable porcelain  coated inner pot makes for easy clean up.
the kit includes  three drip-free zoku cups, one heart and one star stencil, one fruit wand, one  siphon and one angle tray.www.zokuhome.com zyliss smart guard gourmet mandoline with technology that  keeps blades protected and away from the hand by covering the blade (or blade  insert) until actively exposing the german-made stainless steel v-blades by the  user, who must press and hold a squeeze handle to activate and allow slicing.
dishwasher safe, it's easy to use and clean.
uniting all the features consumers want most in a toaster, the waring pro professional 2-and 4-slice cool-touch toasterscan prepare  frozen waffles, pancakes, french toast, frozen bagels, english muffins, and  yes, toast.www.waringpro.com delonghi is betting on the popularity of paninis.
the interior coating of the cookware requires no  additional seasoning like other cast iron pieces and provides a resilient  non-stick surface that makes for easier clean up, and the enameled base is  compatible with all cooktops especially induction surfaces.www.fagoramerica.com eades appliance technology introduced the souvide supreme demi .
this quick, one-time registration gives you access to members-only site benefits.
this healthier alternative has a paddle that  mixes the food and a heat pulse system blows the heat around so the food cooks  evenly.
according to leatrice eiseman, guru of color and executive director of the  pantone color institute, honeysuckle, a dynamic reddish pink, is uplifting,  elevates our psyche beyond escape and instills confidence, courage and spirit  to meet the exhaustive challenges that have become part of everyday life.
squeezing the bottle  fills a chamber on top of the lid with a two-tablespoon serving -- the perfect  portion to top off a healthy salad.www.myhealthysteps.com family fun make your own ice cream flavors with hamilton beach ice cream maker.
but the cat cora pièce  de résistance is thecook'n' serve 2.5 quart casserole,  an 18/10 recycled stainless steel pot, which after cooking, is placed in a  sustainable bamboo centerpiece, keeping the food longer and allowing you to  serve from it at table.www.catcora.com m.e. heuck went carbon neutral (certified by first carbon solutions and the  carbon neutral co.) with itszeroca line of cookware and kitchen gadgets .
its locking jaws keep a  tight hold on the bag until you press its fin, which is a cleverly disguised  release button.
storage and space are a renewed concern in the american household.
and healthy steps salad dressing lid screws onto the top of most salad dressing bottles.
high country industries inc. brings thegrillex  patented brazilian barbeque grill to you.
each 4-piece cast iron set (0.25-quart) of minis can be used to make soup, appetizers or dessert.
made of bpa-free plastic with  silicone feet for keeping it firmly in place, thebistro knife block is so cool.
and mclemore has a great new cookbook, dadgum, that's good!www.masterbuilt.com an update on the original charcoal grill released by bodum in 1962, the fyrkat picnic charcoal grill features a unique funnel shape designed to ensure optimal heat while maintaining complete safety and stability.
made of enamel-coated  steel with chrome-plated steel legs and heat-resistant silicone handles, it  comes in red, orange, green and black.www.bodum.com partnering with the viking range corp.‘s culinary group, chef emeril  lagasse'semeril gas grill, built from rugged steel components,  is designed to withstand the elements and provide years of grilling enjoyment.
in fact, there was even a coffeestack from youcopia products inc. to organize 40 pods (or k cups).
" and for home bakers, what could be better than the mastrad pastry  bag set with stand.
bodum's  combination of an extremely hard and sharp ceramic blade with an ergonomic,  non-slip silicone handle accentuated by a dotted touch pad, creates a knife that stands up to any cutting task while remaining safe and  comfortable to use.
healthy steps pasta server helps scoop up cooked pasta more easily.
for every coin dropped into the bank, the lcd displays  its value by blinking three times followed by the total amount saved.
the piggy bank counts  your savings for you, and comes with an innovative electronic lcd digital
invented accidentally by ray plunkett, teflon was kept secret during world war ii.
www.cdn-timeandtemp.com zoku tools by zoku llc allow  you to make unique pops.
the silicone bag set, ideal for icing, decorating,  filling pastries, or creating hors d'oeuvres and appetizers.
baby  boomers(ages 45-65) are the "do-it-for-me generation" who  are downsizing, shifting priorities from work to real life and entering a  second middle age.
the 4-piece mini dutch oven set is crafted with multi-coated exterior coating to ensure strength.
it can cook 12 4-oz portions.
the one-piece, dishwasher safe spiral slide design keeps cereal crispy until mixed by the user.
you can add flavors or carbonate water or soda.www.sodastreamusa.com easy does it from world kitchen, pyrex no-leak-lids products feature a functional and contemporary design that will not absorb stains or odors, are bpa-free, leak-proof and the airtight plastic lids have a vent for microwaving quickly and easily – great idea.
the handle has a large crisscross crusher on the end for pulverizing nuts, and garlic, etc., and a star shaped hole in the blade makes for easy hanging, a red edge guard protects the knife edge, and it weighs in at a whopping 1 pound.
invented accidentally by ray plunkett, teflon was kept secret during world war  ii.
yashinsky noted that for all three groups there is a  lack of trust in institutions and instead there's a trust in their community.
if you remove a few shelves and racks, the oven can also cook a 12-inch pizza.www.shopdelonghi.com and for home bakers, what could be better than the mastrad pastry bag set with stand.
oxo's container grater is ideal if you want to measure what you are grating and dispense as needed.
homer laughlin china,  maker of fiesta dishes and the last major china manufacturer in the u.s., has  been making china for 140 years.
if i was a manufacturer of bottled water, i'd be worried.
although only tangential to the food & beverage processing industry, it's here you first see food trends like microwave ovens, crock pots and single-serve coffee machines, which of course do impact the foods you make.
favorite finds from the 2011 housewares show mini momentum nespresso usa inc. debuted the pixie, which takes up less time, space and energy consumption while  still creating a perfect cup of coffee, both espresso and lungo.
www.aladdin-pmi.com  progressive 4-quart collapsible produce keeper allows you to wash and store  produce in a single container containing a water reservoir to keep it fresh and  a vent for airflow.www.progressiveintl.com for fido, simple human's pet food can with wheels stores  food, and an ergonomic lock-tight handle keeps it fresh.
we've been waiting for this!www.kitchenaid.com
the marks wipe off the class with a little cooking oil.
it takes up very little space on the counter, and also functions as a  baby bottle warmer.www.kidsline.com toasters aren't just for toast  anymore.
although only tangential to the food &  beverage processing industry, it's here you first see food trends like  microwave ovens, crock pots and single-serve coffee machines, which of course  do impact the foods you make.
"mass media has  made a more educated consumer in the kitchen than ever before.
it's the place to be for trend watching because  housewares manufacturers respond so quickly to consumer demand.
and healthy steps salad dressing  lid screws onto the top of most salad dressing bottles.
made of high carbon german stainless steel for stain resistance and durability, they have a patented ergonomic design to create an extension of your hand for comfort, and the blades are precision heat treated to 56rc to keep a great edge.
dupont celebrated 50 years of teflon nonstick coating systems for cookware.
do those skewers of flavorful meat found at popular churrascarias scattered  around the country have you fiddling with your backyard bbq in your best effort  to replicate?
www.ciscousa.com to cast your vote, log in or become a member.
nut bowl and scoop make it easy to enjoy nuts in portion-controlled servings.
bodum's combination of an extremely hard and sharp ceramic blade with an ergonomic, non-slip silicone handle accentuated by a dotted touch pad, creates a knife that stands up to any cutting task while remaining safe and comfortable to use.
the 6-quartstir  crazy deluxe corn popper has a non-stick coated heating plate and is  now removable for easy cleaning, and the new stir rod pops at higher volume for  more popcorn.
it's been 90 years of success at the vita-mix corp… nordic ware unveiled its anniversary bundt-lette pan, celebrating 65 years.
a scoop attaches for  easy access, and the inner bucket is removable.www.simplehuman.com gadgets galore fitting comfortably in the palm of your  hand, thefarberware container peeler from lifetime brands  makes peeling vegetables mess-free and eliminates the need to peel vegetables  directly over a trash can, cutting board or bowl.
the interior coating of the cookware requires no additional seasoning like other cast iron pieces and provides a resilient non-stick surface that makes for easier clean up, and the enameled base is compatible with all cooktops especially induction surfaces.www.fagoramerica.com eades appliance technology introduced the souvide supreme demi .
use the nonstick, dishwasher-safe cooking pot to braise meat right on the stovetop and return it to the heating base for slow cooking.
bi-directional sharp stainless  steel grating surface is ideal for medium grating of hard cheeses, chocolate,  carrots, zucchini and more.www.oxo.com
just pour in the juice, and make flavored core pops  such as creamsicles, apply fruit slices and stenciled cutouts and you can make  pops with cool angles – geometry was never so much fun.
it's the place to be for trend watching because housewares manufacturers respond so quickly to consumer demand.
home cooks are making smaller entrees and serve side dishes for family meals or when entertaining, so the hot and cold retention and classic style of lodge cast iron create great food presentations.
just point  it at the food, press the trigger, and within a second, it provides an accurate  surface temperature reading ensuring food safety.
high country industries inc. brings thegrillex patented brazilian barbeque grill to you.
for those of you with a kitchenaid stand mixer, you will be happy to hear  the company has come out with a unique dishwasher-safeflex edge beater , which uses a flexible edge on one side to gently and automatically  scrape the sides of the mixer bowl while mixing.
our news and trends editor reports on the newest trends for 2011.
home cooks are making smaller entrees and serve  side dishes for family meals or when entertaining, so the hot and cold  retention and classic style of lodge cast iron create great food presentations.
the bowl's lid scoops  nuts from bulk packaging into the nut bowl.
sold-out for the first time in three years, the show rang up a 5 percent  increase in total buyer attendance (21,000), with 1,951 exhibitors (also up 5  percent from last year)
mark your drink with the non-toxic  metallic markers.
made  of high carbon german stainless steel for stain resistance and durability, they  have a patented ergonomic design to create an extension of your hand for  comfort, and the blades are precision heat treated to 56rc to keep a great  edge.
the company  has a variety of styles and colors including a cast iron collection (100%  recycled post-consumer cast iron made 100% in the usa).www.green-pan.com grilling masters
and when you aren't using it, the magnetic clip will stick to  your refrigerator.www.shrockie.com quiver tree international solves the "is this my glass?"
the handles are attached by rivets, which will never loosen and allows the pans to be placed in an oven set at any temperature.
www.aladdin-pmi.com progressive 4-quart collapsible produce keeper allows you to wash and store produce in a single container containing a water reservoir to keep it fresh and a vent for airflow.www.progressiveintl.com for fido, simple human's pet food can with wheels stores food, and an ergonomic lock-tight handle keeps it fresh.
thanks to the excellent heat capturing ability of thermolon (a green non-stick coating technology that uses 60 percent less co2 emission), less power is needed to reach high temperatures and cooking with it requires less energy.
the mini-tools meet cpsia lead and phthalate limits.www.tmadeproducts.com cuisipro presented snap-fit pop molds that make it easy to create frozen pops.
and i really don't care), dog, rooster, chef, hippie and buddha baby.www.talkingtimerz.com toy designer joel shrockie presented the clever, patent-pendingfish clip, a tight-gripping clip great for keeping bags closed.
nesting at home continues to be the most important lifestyle trend as  consumers continue to watch their pocketbooks.
color and shape define style.
"so address the new social aspect, entice your consumer and help  them be creative and help them update traditional favorites.
west bend corn poppers satisfy this appetite by making popcorn an inexpensive  wholesome treat that's easy to pop and fun to eat.
culinary rebirth is good news because it means that  kitchens will continue to be eating and meeting spaces.
the molds snap together to pop into the freezer, to serve and to snore.
so were sustainable/recyclable/energy-efficient products and materials, along with a panoply of outdoor and indoor grills, a resurgence of cast iron, energy-saving induction cook tops for the table and gadgets made of silicone.
just pour in the juice, and make flavored core pops such as creamsicles, apply fruit slices and stenciled cutouts and you can make pops with cool angles – geometry was never so much fun.
inspire "shopping and purchasing" versus "sharing and  trading" transparency is no longer an option, so manage your image like your manage  your inventory.
made of 100 percent recycled steel and farm-managed bamboo the line  has a carbon footprint of net zero.www.heuck.com traditional non-stick fry pans containing polytetrafluoroethylene (ptfe),  are manufactured with perflueoroctoanoic acid (pfoa) and are limited in heat  resistance – only up to 500-degrees f without damaging the product as  well as hurting your health.
thanks to the excellent heat  capturing ability of thermolon (a green non-stick coating technology that uses  60 percent less co2 emission), less power is needed to reach high temperatures  and cooking with it requires less energy.
they are buying less and looking for more meaning in what they buy.
west bend corn poppers satisfy this appetite by making popcorn an inexpensive wholesome treat that's easy to pop and fun to eat.
seven stainless steel flavor generator plates catch drippings to create more smoke and smokier flavor, and also channel grease neatly into the removable drip tray for easier cleanup.
and if you want to save some dough to buy these marvelous housewares, cisco sales corp.'sdigi-piggi is the ticket.
a scoop attaches for easy access, and the inner bucket is removable.www.simplehuman.com gadgets galore fitting comfortably in the palm of your hand, thefarberware container peeler from lifetime brands makes peeling vegetables mess-free and eliminates the need to peel vegetables directly over a trash can, cutting board or bowl.
each 4-piece  cast iron set (0.25-quart) of minis can be used to make soup, appetizers or  dessert.
the knife handles feature a wild signature flame-wave handle design, accented with a polished star to complete guy's look and the blades are artistically-etched with the "guy fieri knuckle sandwich" logo as a bold expression of fieri's hot rod/rock ‘n' roll attitude.
on a more serious note, he points out cookware and kitchen electrics  are benefiting from the do-it-yourself-at-home trend, also influenced by  cooking programs on tv.
due to its streamlined shape, the cone-shaped grill offers two  grilling options: a traditional grill top along with a removable,  battery-operated rotisserie, housed in the lower chamber.
so there is an  opportunity to bring new culinary experiences into the kitchen, all which  require new cooking appliances, prep tools and recipe books," says  mirabile.
multi-functional finds cuisinart'sblend and cook soup maker, which both prepares and  cooks soup, has an internal heater to keep the soup at the optimal temperature;  coffee plus 12-cup programmable coffee maker with hot water system (it has a  completely separate 56-oz water reservoir to let you simultaneously dispense  coffee and hot water for tea at the same time).www.cuisinart.com lightweight and easy to use, thewest bend electric versatility slow  cooker is a true one-pot-meal-maker.
the dishwasher safe lid, drain valve and removable porcelain coated inner pot makes for easy clean up.
it uses two aaa batteries, is made of abs plastic and comes in bright construction yellow with black accents.
kids can create any flavor using candied citrus peels or chunks of fruits or can layer in yogurt, pudding, ice cream or jelly.
it features an interior made up of a myriad of very fine  plastic bristles, allowing any knife to sit in any configuration within the  block – tightly and securely.www.bodum.com chef guy fieri, with  his signature spiked hair and tattoos, hosts three popular shows on the food  and is the host of the game show a minute to win it on nbc.
additionally, the white ceramic blades are non-corrosive and neutral in taste, preventing foods from absorbing odors or becoming discolored after having been cut.
if you remove a few shelves and  racks, the oven can also cook a 12-inch pizza.www.shopdelonghi.com trends in the consumer marketplace
available in both round and rectangle shapes they conveniently nest and stack.
due to its streamlined shape, the cone-shaped grill offers two grilling options: a traditional grill top along with a removable, battery-operated rotisserie, housed in the lower chamber.
"i designed the line on a cocktail napkin," he told us.
you may use the headline, deck, byline and url of this article on your web site.
www.thedrinkmarker.com
the multigenerational home,  anti-consumerism, as culinary rebirth, the multi-faceted meaning of value and  reinventing customer relationships are the most important trends at work in the  consumer marketplace of the future, according to a panel of experts  –– susan yashinsky, macro trend forecaster, sphere trending;  michelle lamb, co-founder, chairman and editorial director, the trend curve;  and robin albing, founder and president, albing international marketing llc --
or masterbuilt's electric smokehouse w/remote, with a digital thermostat and remote timer, allows you to simply throw in your meat and the smoker does the rest.
best of all, the  drip catching handles eliminate sticky messes.www.cuisipro.com euro-ware has licensedentenmann's bakeware including the  three-piece little bites, smaller-portioned kid-friendly bakeware pieces for  young, aspiring chefs or for adults who prefer smaller portions.
made in belgium,greenpan is the  first cookware company to create ptfe-free and pfoa-free non-stick products,  truly transforming the entire cookware market.
another sign of optimism is that men's underwear sales are on an upswing (apparently, men stop buying it during a recession), kidded npd's peter goldman.
"this has helped to create a growing generation of what we call  aspirational chefs," he says.
www.ciscousa.comto cast your vote, log in or become a member.
no more having to stop the mixer and hand scrape.
age is a number, not a lifestyle predictor.
the 4-piece mini dutch oven set is crafted with multi-coated exterior  coating to ensure strength.
explore partnerships.
new technology phase brew 8-cup coffee brewer by bunn heats and  holds water until it reaches the perfect temperature – so it can be  spray-released, instead of slow-dripped, over coffee grounds to achieve ideal  flavor extraction.
gen x (ages 36-45)  consists of families who are "overwhelmed and underwater," says  mirabile, often raising children, and who have a much stronger work life  balance.
with this concept in mind, philips saeco developed itscoffeemaker with built-in grinder.
his newest innovation is the beast, a 6.5" meat cleaver.
rhoost has been awarded the pediatricians' childproofing product award for 2010.
technology increasingly changes how we shop, so don't get left  behind.
the user can choose their favorite to play when the timer goes off.
made of 99 percent  recycled aluminum steel, the line is environmentally friendly, ceramic-surfaced  to retain heat longer, and non-stick.
it takes up very little space on the counter, and also functions as a baby bottle warmer.www.kidsline.com toasters aren't just for toast anymore.
competition with starbucks as a destination is fierce, and the coffee  connection has moved to the home in a big way as the pod people take over.
the bristles are also made of silicone and can withstand high temperatures.
put the bowl in the freezer for a few hours.
wood sticks are not needed  since the sticks are integrated into the design of a sailboat, robot and  rocket.
reinventing customer  relationships is about technology and understanding that it's a game  changer, mirabile said.
parasia's automatic turkey thermometer (shaped like a  turkey) has a heat resistant cable and magnetic back.
in addition to its healthier  attributes, greenpan reduces packaging material, printing ink and printing  colors, and just about all raw materials used in production are recycled.
do you dream of brazilian barbeque?
additionally, the white ceramic blades  are non-corrosive and neutral in taste, preventing foods from absorbing odors  or becoming discolored after having been cut.
but they are finally replacing basic kitchen tools and pans with very colorful products offering multi-functional benefits that help consumers cook up healthier foods with less effort.
a circular diffuser at the base of the grillex evenly convects the heat creating a perfect environment for cooking any variation of meats, vegetables, fruits and more, so a full meal for four can be served in just 20 minutes.www.grillex.com masterbuilt manufacturing co.
iced coffee was notable, too.
consumers are turning to reuseable beverage containers.
in addition to its healthier attributes, greenpan reduces packaging material, printing ink and printing colors, and just about all raw materials used in production are recycled.
it would be a perfect  gift – hint, hint.www.lodgemfg.com
turn on the machine for about six minutes and you have personalized ice cream flavors.www.hamiltonbeach.com
just point it at the food, press the trigger, and within a second, it provides an accurate surface temperature reading ensuring food safety.
a patented fizz  chip displays the amount of co2 in the carbonator (which powers the home soda  maker) and shows whether the fizz is light, medium or strong.
although green (and/or  sustainability) was the word i heard most often at the recent international  home & housewares show, honeysuckle is the official color of 2011.
characters include a cat (it's burning!
but they are finally replacing  basic kitchen tools and pans with very colorful products offering  multi-functional benefits that help consumers cook up healthier foods with less  effort.
www.rhoost.com diamond in the rough victorinox commercial cutlery introducesvictorinox ceramic knives with fibrox handles.
and when you aren't using it, the magnetic clip will stick to your refrigerator.www.shrockie.com quiver tree international solves the "is this my glass?" dilemma with thedrink marker.
www.entenmannsbakeware.com passionate mom vianka perez belyea and business-savvy tavinder phull have created a line of attractive andeco-friendly safety products that protect toddlers from bumps, scratches, and other danger around the home.
we had an opportunity to view fabulous prototype pans with vibrant colored teflon interiors (my favorite is purple)… and all-clad showcased its 40th anniversary with limited-edition cookware that features the company's anniversary logo.
www.entenmannsbakeware.com passionate mom vianka perez belyea and business-savvy tavinder phull have  created a line of attractive andeco-friendly safety products that protect toddlers from bumps, scratches, and other danger around the home.
it features a veggie scrubber, nylon knife, mixing spoon, vegetable peeler, melon baler an, apple slicer, stickers and a colorful shopping list.
four powerful burners provide up to 48,000 btus of searing heat, evenly  distributed over 589 sq.
each timer comes with five to six custom one-liners and  melodies.
but the cat cora pièce de résistance is thecook'n' serve 2.5 quart casserole, an 18/10 recycled stainless steel pot, which after cooking, is placed in a sustainable bamboo centerpiece, keeping the food longer and allowing you to serve from it at table.www.catcora.com m.e. heuck went carbon neutral (certified by first carbon solutions and the carbon neutral co.) with itszeroca line of cookware and kitchen gadgets .
www.jamie-olivers-kitchen-kit.com great coffee starts with fresh ground beans.
and its patented  thumb-shelf makes it easy to hold while watching tv or eating in bed.www.obol.co salad makers take up unnecessary space, so pmi aladdin created a bpa-free,  dishwasher -safecollapsible salad set with containers to keep  the ingredients separate and a dual- action colander.
the handle has a large  crisscross crusher on the end for pulverizing nuts, and garlic, etc., and a  star shaped hole in the blade makes for easy hanging, a red edge guard protects  the knife edge, and it weighs in at a whopping 1 pound.
oxo's container grater is ideal if you want to measure  what you are grating and dispense as needed.
the adjustable, conical burr grinder offers the flexibility to brew coffee to your exact preference, while the innovative anti-clogging technology provides hassle-free maintenance.
in  fact, there was even a coffeestack from youcopia products inc. to organize 40  pods (or k cups).
"as consumers stop equating personal happiness with the consumption  and purchase of material possessions, we need to recognize what the  game-changing strategies for survival and success are," says iha's  consumer trend analyst tom mirabile, senior vice president, global trend and  design, lifetime brands inc. ten new rules for a changing economy
consumers are  turning to reuseable beverage containers.
www.cdn-timeandtemp.com zoku tools by zoku llc allow you to make unique pops.
very technologically oriented, they often carry a large  amount of debt and are adopting new norms on marriage and children.
"be best of class regardless of the price point you  operate in," he suggests.
made of 99 percent recycled aluminum steel, the line is environmentally friendly, ceramic-surfaced to retain heat longer, and non-stick.
you tilt the bowl and the  flat spot on the base allows for whisking or mixing at a 45-degree angle.
it's  been 90 years of success at the vita-mix corp… nordic ware unveiled its  anniversary bundt-lette pan, celebrating 65 years.
put some fun back in function.
the company has a variety of styles and colors including a cast iron collection (100% recycled post-consumer cast iron made 100% in the usa).www.green-pan.com grilling masters do you dream of brazilian barbeque?
zyliss strongboy nutcracker lets you crack  nuts using one handed lever action and it works beautifully.www.zylissusa.com
the bowl measures one or two servings -- just right for a healthy snack.
for example, 31 million households in the u.s. are a  one-person household.
kids can create any flavor using candied citrus peels or chunks of  fruits or can layer in yogurt, pudding, ice cream or jelly.
a modern day twist to churrasco (pronounced shoo-ras-koo), the famed outdoor cooking style that creates the mouthwatering flavor, aroma and taste of brazilian barbeque at home, grillex is a compact smokeless grill that is placed over a gas burner, and the food is placed on skewers and in baskets suspended vertically around the heat source.
seven stainless steel  flavor generator plates catch drippings to create more smoke and smokier  flavor, and also channel grease neatly into the removable drip tray for easier  cleanup.
curved handles are a nice touch and the minis are perfect for serving  up sides, desserts and snacks.
four powerful burners provide up to 48,000 btus of searing heat, evenly distributed over 589 sq.
i had an opportunity to cook using a copenhagen pan, which has an oven safe stainless steal handle.
"as consumers stop equating personal happiness with the consumption and purchase of material possessions, we need to recognize what the game-changing strategies for survival and success are," says iha's consumer trend analyst tom mirabile, senior vice president, global trend and design, lifetime brands inc. mini momentum nespresso usa inc. debuted the pixie, which takes up less time, space and energy consumption while still creating a perfect cup of coffee, both espresso and lungo.
it features a veggie scrubber, nylon  knife, mixing spoon, vegetable peeler, melon baler an, apple slicer, stickers  and a colorful shopping list.
the smallest machine ever created by nespresso, its anodized aluminum side panels were inspired by industrial, minimalist design.
your microware will thank them.www.worldkitchen.com dkb household usa has partnered with jamie oliver for a line of kitchen tools and gadgets.
take "comfort food" and "creature comforts" to the  next level.
curved handles are a nice touch and the minis are perfect for serving up sides, desserts and snacks.
anti consumerism is a social political movement, consisting of  people (primarily gen y) who want to create overall happiness by promoting  simplicity and to save the planet from collapse by slowing down consumption.
we were treated to a custom cake created by charm city cakes, of "ace of cakes" fame…
to link to this article, select and copy the html code below and paste it on your own web site.2011 trends: what the housewares show foretells for food processingdiane toops, news & trends editorthe housewares show is only tangential to the food & beverage processing industry, but it's where you first see food trends that impact the foods you make.
cool gear's ez freeze pure  filtration includes a patented freezer stick (keeping the water cold) and  filter system to reduce the chlorine taste and odor of tap water.
multi-functional finds cuisinart'sblend and cook soup maker, which both prepares and cooks soup, has an internal heater to keep the soup at the optimal temperature; coffee plus 12-cup programmable coffee maker with hot water system (it has a completely separate 56-oz water reservoir to let you simultaneously dispense coffee and hot water for tea at the same time).www.cuisinart.com lightweight and easy to use, thewest bend electric versatility slow cooker is a true one-pot-meal-maker.
two side-by-side containers (bpa-free) allow you to puree and steam at the same time.
and mclemore has a great new  cookbook, dadgum, that's good!www.masterbuilt.com an update on the original charcoal grill released by bodum in 1962, the fyrkat picnic charcoal grill features a unique funnel shape  designed to ensure optimal heat while maintaining complete safety and  stability.
www.emerils.com healthy is as healthy does t-fal actifry looks like a deep fryer, but just add one tablespoon of oil and you can cook most anything – meat, seafood, vegetables, fruits and pasta.
economic recovery will be slow, so success will come from taking market  share from both competitors and non-competitors.
a light flashes and alarms sound when the turkey is done.http://parasia-international.com kiddin' around perfect for mini chefs, baby cakes cupcake maker, donut maker and whoopie pie maker create adorable tiny, individual versions of those snacks in just a few minutes.
www.thebabycakesshop.com tailor made product inc.'s curious chef expanded its line to include the fruit and veggie prep kit to encourage fruit and veggie consumption for kids four and older.
the bowl measures one or two  servings -- just right for a healthy snack.
each timer comes with five to six custom one-liners and melodies.
"they are worried about  retirement and healthcare costs, may be supporting children and aging  parents."
and if you want to save some dough to buy these marvelous housewares, cisco  sales corp.'sdigi-piggi is the ticket.
"yet many are still stuck in starter homes, and were hit hardest  by the recession with mounting debt," says mirabile.
so were sustainable/recyclable/energy-efficient products and materials,  along with a panoply of outdoor and indoor grills, a resurgence of cast iron,  energy-saving induction cook tops for the table and gadgets made of silicone.
i had  an opportunity to cook using a copenhagen pan, which has an oven safe stainless  steal handle.
a patented fizz chip displays the amount of co2 in the carbonator (which powers the home soda maker) and shows whether the fizz is light, medium or strong.
two  side-by-side containers (bpa-free) allow you to puree and steam at the same  time.
it's a piece of cake to use, a tip cap keeps the bag's contents moist between uses, and easy to clean bags can be washed by hand or in the top of the dishwasher).www.mastrad.us environmentally-friendly chef cat cora demonstrated cat corastarfrit alternative cookware.
the bowl's lid scoops nuts from bulk packaging into the nut bowl.
this innovative technology results in a perfect pot of coffee with rich flavor and amazing aroma.www.bunnathome.com weird, but notable talking timerz talk and sometimes sing.
less glam and more classic styling with long-term appeal.
in the mid-1970s west bend introduced the original stir crazy electric corn popper.
www.souvidesupreme.com a new collection of lodge iron minis offers seven cute shapes.
heat resistant handles make it safer and it contains a butter  well.
healthy steps pasta server helps scoop up  cooked pasta more easily.
do those skewers of flavorful meat found at popular churrascarias scattered around the country have you fiddling with your backyard bbq in your best effort to replicate?
best of all, the drip catching handles eliminate sticky messes.www.cuisipro.com euro-ware has licensedentenmann's bakeware including the three-piece little bites, smaller-portioned kid-friendly bakeware pieces for young, aspiring chefs or for adults who prefer smaller portions.
the smallest  machine ever created by nespresso, its anodized aluminum side panels were  inspired by industrial, minimalist design.
a recipe book is also  included.www.tefal.com mastrad debuted its new 11-inch round silicone chip maker.
and its patented thumb-shelf makes it easy to hold while watching tv or eating in bed.www.obol.co salad makers take up unnecessary space, so pmi aladdin created a bpa-free, dishwasher -safecollapsible salad set with containers to keep the ingredients separate and a dual- action colander.
www.thebabycakesshop.com tailor made product inc.'s curious chef expanded its line to include the fruit and veggie prep kit to encourage fruit and veggie  consumption for kids four and older.
panini makers were everywhere, as were fizzy beverage systems.
the kit includes three drip-free zoku cups, one heart and one star stencil, one fruit wand, one siphon and one angle tray.www.zokuhome.com zyliss smart guard gourmet mandoline with technology that keeps blades protected and away from the hand by covering the blade (or blade insert) until actively exposing the german-made stainless steel v-blades by the user, who must press and hold a squeeze handle to activate and allow slicing.
the knives, available in black, red, orange, green and off-white handles, in the bistro collection include a 6" and 7" chef's knife; a 6" and 7" bread knife; a 6.5" santoku knife; a 4.5" tomato knife; 3" paring/vegetable knife; a 4" firm cheese knife and 3.5" fresh cheese knife.
for those of you with a kitchenaid stand mixer, you will be happy to hear the company has come out with a unique dishwasher-safeflex edge beater , which uses a flexible edge on one side to gently and automatically scrape the sides of the mixer bowl while mixing.
its fiesta brand also celebrated its 75  anniversary with the release of a limited edition plate and soup tureen in  marigold.
this quick,  one-time registration gives you access to members-only site benefits.
we were treated to a custom cake created by charm city cakes, of  "ace of cakes" fame…
another sign of optimism is that men's underwear sales are on an upswing  (apparently, men stop buying it during a recession), kidded npd's peter  goldman.
www.westbend.com fizzy water isi twist  ‘n sparkle, a beverage carbonating system gives a new twist on  home carbonation -- designed to fizz up boundless beverages, by adding shimmer  and effervescence to any drink.www.isinorthamerica.com sodastream  unveiled thefizz to its home soda portfolio.
the peels go directly into the container as you cut; so simply open the container when done to dispose of the peels.www.lifetimebrands.com ideal for outdoor picnics, component design northwest (cdn) introduced theinfrared gun.
zyliss strongboy nutcracker lets you crack nuts using one handed lever action and it works beautifully.www.zylissusa.com
no preheating is necessary, and you can  broil, roast, grill, steam, fry, dehydrate and bake in it.www.hearthware.com fagor america inc. offers a line of mini dutch oven cookware under the michelle b label (chef michelle bernstein).
bi-directional sharp stainless steel grating surface is ideal for medium grating of hard cheeses, chocolate, carrots, zucchini and more.www.oxo.com
by diane toops, news & trends editor | 03/28/2011 "housewares," sponsored by the international housewares assn (iha), is one of my favorite shows.
your microware  will thank them.www.worldkitchen.com dkb household usa has partnered  with jamie oliver for a line of kitchen tools and gadgets.
its convection  oven has a lever on the front that lowers a metal press inside the  oven to make the perfect panini sandwich.
uniting all the features consumers want most in a toaster, the waring pro professional 2-and 4-slice cool-touch toasterscan prepare frozen waffles, pancakes, french toast, frozen bagels, english muffins, and yes, toast.www.waringpro.com delonghi is betting on the popularity of paninis.
incidentally, fieri predicts "low and slow" bbq will become more popular than "hot and fast" grilling.www.ergochef.com and speaking of rock and roll, lodge manufacturing debuted the coolestcast iron guitar skillet that measures 10.75 inches long by 4.67 inches wide.
this healthier alternative has a paddle that mixes the food and a heat pulse system blows the heat around so the food cooks evenly.
turn on the machine for about six minutes and you have personalized ice cream  flavors.www.hamiltonbeach.com
slice potatoes, place them in a single layer, put the chip holder device in the microwave and -- without oil -- you end up with crispy, fat-free healthy potato (or any kind of vegetable) chips.www.mastrad.us healthy steps by jokari features portion control kitchen tools that simplify serving sizes.
the  blades are made from zirconium oxide powder, compressed at high pressures and  sintered in furnaces at temperatures of more than 2,700 degrees, so the  hardness of the blade is comparable to that of a diamond.www.swissarmy.com as the kitchen emerges as the central hub of the home and both the novice  cook and expert foodie constantly sharpen their cooking skills, the need for  functional, stylish and well-designed tools has never been greater!
use the nonstick, dishwasher-safe  cooking pot to braise meat right on the stovetop and return it to the heating  base for slow cooking.
with a countertop footprint the  size of a crock-pot, the all-in-one demi uses the same type of pid-controlled  heating element contained in the larger version.
rhoost products are all bpa, lead, and phthalate-free and are 100% recyclable.
dilemma  with thedrink marker.
you tilt the bowl and the flat spot on the base allows for whisking or mixing at a 45-degree angle.
you can even broil in them.
saving space is top of mind, so mini-everything and single serve was a hot trend.
homer laughlin china, maker of fiesta dishes and the last major china manufacturer in the u.s., has been making china for 140 years.
it features an interior made up of a myriad of very fine plastic bristles, allowing any knife to sit in any configuration within the block – tightly and securely.www.bodum.com chef guy fieri, with his signature spiked hair and tattoos, hosts three popular shows on the food and is the host of the game show a minute to win it on nbc.
the knife handles feature a wild signature flame-wave handle design,  accented with a polished star to complete guy's look and the blades are  artistically-etched with the "guy fieri knuckle sandwich" logo as a  bold expression of fieri's hot rod/rock ‘n' roll attitude.
"this has helped to create a growing generation of what we call aspirational chefs," he says.
it was fabulous to use and incredibly easy to clean.
heat resistant handles make it safer and it contains a butter well.
wood sticks are not needed since the sticks are integrated into the design of a sailboat, robot and rocket.
his newest  innovation is the beast, a 6.5" meat cleaver.
this innovative technology results in a perfect pot of  coffee with rich flavor and amazing aroma.www.bunnathome.com weird, but notable talking timerz talk and  sometimes sing.
competition with starbucks as a destination is fierce, and the coffee connection has moved to the home in a big way as the pod people take over.
made of bpa-free plastic with silicone feet for keeping it firmly in place, thebistro knife block is so cool.
www.souvidesupreme.com a new collection of lodge iron minis offers seven cute  shapes.
honeysuckle: the official color of 2011
"we need to embrace multi channel strategies, such  as the internet (projected to be a $250 billion business), where almost half of  retail sales are affected, either as research of point of sale.
they are inspired by well ness and giving back to the  community.
its convection oven has a lever on the front that lowers a metal press inside the oven to make the perfect panini sandwich.
a modern day twist to  churrasco (pronounced shoo-ras-koo), the famed outdoor cooking style that  creates the mouthwatering flavor, aroma and taste of brazilian barbeque at  home, grillex is a compact smokeless grill that is placed over a gas burner,  and the food is placed on skewers and in baskets suspended vertically around  the heat source.
made of 100 percent recycled steel and farm-managed bamboo the line has a carbon footprint of net zero.www.heuck.com traditional non-stick fry pans containing polytetrafluoroethylene (ptfe), are manufactured with perflueoroctoanoic acid (pfoa) and are limited in heat resistance – only up to 500-degrees f without damaging the product as well as hurting your health.
create and enable family time, wellness and shared experiences in the home.
led by master trendmeister tom mirabile, senior vice president, global trend  and design, lifetime brands inc. multigenerational home consists of gen y (ages 16-35) who are renting instead of owning a  home, job hop frequently, are strongly peer influenced, and they are the least  affected by brands.
parasia's automatic turkey thermometer (shaped like a turkey) has a heat resistant cable and magnetic back.
the peels go directly into  the container as you cut; so simply open the container when done to dispose of  the peels.www.lifetimebrands.com ideal for outdoor picnics, component  design northwest (cdn) introduced theinfrared gun.
regal ware commemorated its 100th year  with limited edition sets of american kitchen tri-ply fry pans… also  celebrating their 100th birthdays were west bend and tramontina…
the server indicates the proper serving sizes of both  pasta and sauce -- one scoop gets it right every time.
no more having to stop the  mixer and hand scrape.
with a countertop footprint the size of a crock-pot, the all-in-one demi uses the same type of pid-controlled heating element contained in the larger version.
www.focuselectrics.com baby chef's ultimate baby food center blends, chops, warms, steams, purees and reheats food for baby.
"i designed the  line on a cocktail napkin," he told us.
in the mid-1970s west bend introduced the original stir crazy electric corn  popper.
made of enamel-coated steel with chrome-plated steel legs and heat-resistant silicone handles, it comes in red, orange, green and black.www.bodum.com partnering with the viking range corp.‘s culinary group, chef emeril lagasse'semeril gas grill, built from rugged steel components, is designed to withstand the elements and provide years of grilling enjoyment.
basters can be messy, but the dishwasher safe zyliss squeezy baster flexible  silicone body holds, and then releases juices with a squeeze-and-release valve  that evenly distribute the juices.
today americans consume about 17 billion quarts of popcorn each year.
bring more  restaurant experiences into the home, whether it's coffee or indian cuisine,  and save them time and space and energy and effort" the  multi-facetedmeaning of value.
made in belgium,greenpan is the first cookware company to create ptfe-free and pfoa-free non-stick products, truly transforming the entire cookware market.
it uses two aaa batteries, is  made of abs plastic and comes in bright construction yellow with black accents.
the 6-quartstir crazy deluxe corn popper has a non-stick coated heating plate and is now removable for easy cleaning, and the new stir rod pops at higher volume for more popcorn.
regal ware commemorated its 100th year with limited edition sets of american kitchen tri-ply fry pans… also celebrating their 100th birthdays were west bend and tramontina…
lifetime brands' stackable water bottle, made of eastman tritan, incorporates an expanding lid system that locks the lid into the bottle creating an airtight seal.
it's a piece of  cake to use, a tip cap keeps the bag's contents moist between uses, and easy to  clean bags can be washed by hand or in the top of the dishwasher).www.mastrad.us environmentally-friendly chef cat cora demonstrated  cat corastarfrit alternative cookware.
readout on its snout.
slice potatoes, place them in a single layer, put the chip holder device in the  microwave and -- without oil -- you end up with crispy, fat-free healthy potato  (or any kind of vegetable) chips.www.mastrad.us healthy steps by jokari features portion control kitchen  tools that simplify serving sizes.
its locking jaws keep a tight hold on the bag until you press its fin, which is a cleverly disguised release button.
the piggy bank counts your savings for you, and comes with an innovative electronic lcd digital readout on its snout.
the server indicates the proper serving sizes of both pasta and sauce -- one scoop gets it right every time.
cool gear's ez freeze pure filtration includes a patented freezer stick (keeping the water cold) and filter system to reduce the chlorine taste and odor of tap water.
the reality is that the  consumer has moved from value equals price plus quality to a multi-dimensional  meaning, mirabile noted.
lots of anniversaries were celebrated this year.
and, it comes in six bold and vibrant colors.www.nespresso.com hearthware home products launches its nuware mini infrared oven (it even has a handle), designed to address the space limitations of dorms, offices, apartments and boats.
we had an opportunity to view fabulous prototype pans with vibrant colored  teflon interiors (my favorite is purple)… and all-clad showcased its  40th anniversary with limited-edition cookware that features the company's  anniversary logo.
www.rhoost.com diamond in the rough victorinox commercial cutlery  introducesvictorinox ceramic knives with fibrox handles.
and i really don't care), dog, rooster,  chef, hippie and buddha baby.www.talkingtimerz.com toy designer joel  shrockie presented the clever, patent-pendingfish clip, a  tight-gripping clip great for keeping bags closed.
"they  demand to be seen as individuals but depend on each other to create a massive  opinion on power of the crowd.
squeezing the bottle fills a chamber on top of the lid with a two-tablespoon serving -- the perfect portion to top off a healthy salad.www.myhealthysteps.com family fun make your own ice cream flavors with hamilton beach ice cream maker.
histilt & mix bowls (set of three) are constructed of stainless steel with slip-resistant rubber on the bottom of each bowl.
the knives, available in black, red, orange, green and  off-white handles, in the bistro collection include a 6" and 7"  chef's knife; a 6" and 7" bread knife; a 6.5" santoku knife; a  4.5" tomato knife; 3" paring/vegetable knife; a 4" firm cheese  knife and 3.5" fresh cheese knife.
nut bowl and scoop make  it easy to enjoy nuts in portion-controlled servings.
basters can be messy, but the dishwasher safe zyliss squeezy baster flexible silicone body holds, and then releases juices with a squeeze-and-release valve that evenly distribute the juices.
convenient extras like condiment and paper towel storage, accessory  tool hooks, and locking rubber wheels combine to take backyard performance to  the next level.
www.westbend.com fizzy water isi twist ‘n sparkle, a beverage carbonating system gives a new twist on home carbonation -- designed to fizz up boundless beverages, by adding shimmer and effervescence to any drink.www.isinorthamerica.com sodastream unveiled thefizz to its home soda portfolio.
inches of cooking surface.
the sou vjde technique involves vacuum-sealing food in airtight pouches, then simmering the pouches in a low-temperature water bath with a precisely maintained temperature throughout (typically between 140 and 190 degrees) the cooking time to lock in nutrients.
the one-piece, dishwasher safe spiral  slide design keeps cereal crispy until mixed by the user.
with this concept in mind,  philips saeco developed itscoffeemaker with built-in grinder.
sold-out for the first time in three years, the show rang up a 5 percent increase in total buyer attendance (21,000), with 1,951 exhibitors (also up 5 percent from last year)
for every coin dropped into the bank, the lcd displays its value by blinking three times followed by the total amount saved.