coordinate the preparation, collection and submission of information and documents required for audits and compliance reporting.
identifying and supporting great nonprofit organizations.
as the seasons change, allergies and other ailments can occur, make sure it’s not the air in your house to blame.
applicants should include “development office assistant” on the cover letter and send three references contact information.
the workshop is being offered free to non-profits, and available to contractors for a discounted fee of $150.
last fall, the rethink architecture committee – a team of nine dedicated young designers – built a model of the school of their dreams.
agenda 5:30 pm: networking, refreshments 6:00 pm: welcome by lifecity 6:05 pm: idea village presentation 6:15 pm: recognition of local green businesses 6:20-7:30 pm: blue drinks, music
hosted by: touro synagogue & new orleans crime coalition as a crime coalition member and sponsor, citizens for 1 greater new orleans would like to invite you to an important community forum.
join the louisiana disaster recovery foundation and the louisiana association of nonprofit organizations at the beautiful louisiana state museum next to the state capitol in baton rouge april 6th and 7th.
donations are also welcomed.
most importantly guest speaker mike bowen of humblehg, llc will discuss how to save money by installing the appropriate system for your home and or apartment.
in today’s economy, nonprofit boards and staff must lead their organizations forward efficiently.
come join the junior league of new orleans and the st. bernard project for the get on board kick-off party this wednesday, january 12th, 6:00pm, at the st. bernard project headquarters located at 8324 parc place, chalmette, la 70043.
annual fund raising – in collaboration with and under the  supervision of the director of development • maintains all  development and fund raising records in the strictest confidence •  accurately performs data entry, filing, gift acknowledgement, solicitation  letter processing and report production • assists with information  needed for proposals to foundations and corporations •
city planning staff will provide the applicant with assistance and information on the application feasibility, decision criteria, and review time.
light refreshments served at 5:30 p.m, with our panel presentation beginning at 6:00 p.m. very special thanks to our good friends at whole foods market for their generous support of our sustainability series.
please submit any articles to thetrumpet@npnnola.com, advertising inquiries tonora@npnnola.com, and if you know any seventh ward community leaders (or if you are one!), please contact timolynn attimolynn@npnnola.com or 940-2207 as soon as possible.
our attendees will also be participating in service projects across the city including the restoration of 24 parks and play places and a sports equipment donation drive.
open world family services, 7050 read blvd., nola saturday, october 3 9:00 – 11:00 a.m.
the gulfsouth youth action fund is an innovative, youth-led philanthropy initiative in which youth provide competitive grant awards to progressive youth-serving organizations.
now’s registrations, licenses, and renewals - providing day to day  management and oversight to ensure smooth functioning of business operations - establishing and maintaining productive partnerships with public and private  agencies, community and faith based organizations in pursuance of the  organization’s mission - representing build now at meetings and  public events a successful applicant will: - possess excellent organizational  skills, written skills, and verbal skills - demonstrate competence in  project and time management, as well as the ability to prioritize and meet  deadlines - be detail-oriented with strong multi-tasking skills -  have experience managing multiple aspects of complex multi-faceted projects - possess management / supervisory experience - have, at minimum, a  bachelors degree and three years of work experience (in the construction and/or  non-profit industries preferred) - demonstrate proven leadership,  financial acumen, and strong people skills - be
for questions, to inquire about discount codes or to reserve your space and pay at the door, emailinfo@thefundingseed.com.posted by gnof | 28 november 2011 honoring mahalia jackson’s 100th birthday and the 1st anniversary of the mahalia jackson center cocktails + dancing with special performance by irma thomas december 8, 2011 7:30-9:30pm first nbc bank lobby 210 baronne street general admission tickets for $250 a couple.
want to support rethink, enjoy delicious food, and help your favorite team win the coveted golden fork?
• manage the development of the psd customer management and process database.
april availability preferred.
i’ve heard people also say you just have to start writing them!
the program’s targeted technical assistance and financial assistance will dramatically enhance the capacity of local nonprofits to assist low-income families in securing and retaining jobs.
i can arrange for delivery if necessary.
-write weekly lesson plans and submit to rethink club director -prepare and provide specific materials for weekly rethink club meetings.
eeo/aa posted by gnof | 29 april 2011 art spark in the park saturday, may 14th city park 10 am – 5 pm my part –
marie restaurant for their generous support of our sustainability series.
primary duties will entail managing the client intake and outreach  process in order to provide the public with access to financing and other  incentives available for energy efficiency home modifications.
opening reception with latino-inspired music and food, saturday, may 14, 5-7 pm on view may 11 – june 29, 2011 the history of the future la historia del futuro photographs by michael berman and julián cardona focusing on the wild places in the desert southwest and the people crossing these lands at the u.s.- mexico border.
global green will join local sustainable businesses branch out, green serene, up/unique products, spruce eco studio, canopy and more – for an after hours street party/shopping spree in the lower garden district on magazine street between jackson avenue and clio streets.
there is a $35 registration fee to cover the costs of meals and snacks.
puentes’ mission is to build assets and create access for the latino community of the greater new orleans area.
winning strategies to strengthen the voice of nonprofits • public policy for issues critical to your mission •  up-to-date state budget analysis • build your civic engagement infrastructure •
in college, while most students spent their spring breaks lounging in tropical climates, walls and poe organized their friends to kayak, hike, and camp in a variety of locales.
the gsyac is a six-week, intensive, holistic, cutting-edge youth leadership and service-learning program for disadvantaged students entering grades 6–9 that focuses on social justice, youth empowerment, community diversity, and service-learning.
foundation staff will provide an overview of the foundation and its new mission, share information on new program areas and grantmaking guidelines, and answer questions.
apply at http://www.seno-nola.org.posted by global green usa | 9 march 2011 global green usa is proud to present a hands-on green rebuilding & weatherization workshop as an opportunity to receive both a classroom and field training over the course of two days in the city of new orleans.
register here for the “collective impact: creating large-scale social change” webinar ($49.00).
global green’s build it back green program healthy green homes series: seasonal maintenance tuesday, december 7th, 6pm – 8pm hosted by:
• knowledge of new orleans demographics and culture.
this very human disaster lies at our feet and at the root of our city’s toughest challenges — drugs, crime, high incarceration rates, and broken social services.
the pem will: o manage all assigned deliverables including venue, talent, catering, a/v equipment, transportation and post-event analysis o contribute to event conceptualization and oversee event execution o craft the look and feel of event design according to team objectives o serve as the primary interface for event and logistics staff at venues, troubleshooting issues and ensuring positive public relations and effective execution o participate in the design and implementation of training and recruitment events alumni engagement – support execution of regional vision and strategies for alumni engagement in collaboration with the regional executive director and le national – research professional development conferences and promote presentations from le alumni special projects the pem will be allocated to ongoing projects, enabling development of additional skills and experiences.
join us in service by contacting handson new orleans or the louisiana nccc.posted by gnof | 25 april 2011 “our community footprint” wednesday, april 27 11:30 am to 1:00 pm
the capacity assessment will include a series of questions to evaluate an organization’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and constraints in critical areas of capacity, including leadership, programs, fundraising, planning, management and operations, and technology.
how do you control it?
again, a community development nonprofit in new orleans, is seeking a summer intern to work on three community revitalization projects.
develop focused and realistic budgets 9.
whether picking up litter, planting community gardens, restoring shorelines, or helping to protect a beloved park or natural area, these everyday heroes make their communities better places to live.
entrepreneurial/leadership qualities •
visit http://lra.org/lra/education/education_foundation.aspx for more information about the lraef.
the nomination review process is highly competitive and is undertaken by a panel of youth and adult judges.
delta playground 8301 w metairie ave (metairie)
the  development assistant plays an important role by providing administrative  support to the director of development and participating in all fundraising  activities including donor- and public relations, direct mail appeals, and  special events.
the bulldog and the louisiana spca (la/spca) present the second annual new orleans on tap, a free festival showcasing 200 varieties of beer in new orleans city park.
through meetings, presentations and  networking, create interest among neighborhood organizations, community based  groups, and individual residents in participating in the nola wise program.
for example, wages and entrepreneurship have spiked post-katrina, school quality has improved, and household incomes have increased (in contrast to the nation where they have fallen).
looking for a conservation hero in new orleans is like looking for outstanding players in the superbowl—so many to choose from!
the gyaf engages, empowers and inspires youth with resources to make strategic investments in creating youth-driven change in their community.
for more information on this and all events, please contact heidi jensen at our green building resource center: hjensen@globalgreen.orgposted by gnof | 9 march 2011 project home again has recently completed 25 beautiful, energy efficient, 2 and 3-bedroom homes in the st. anthony neighborhood of gentilly.
nola wise, in partnership with the city of new orleans, southeast energy alliance, and the department of energy’s better buildings program, focuses on residential energy efficiency upgrades through bank and incentive financing, in conjunction with trained contractors and knowledgeable green building advisors.
if you go there now, you can check out american graduate.
what they find may help hold bp accountable for one of the worst environmental disasters in history.
primary duties will entail  coordinating administrative aspects of the program such as reporting and  invoicing.
local experts in community development, planning, transportation and architecture will present research and reflections on the future of claiborne.
for more information call nick karl, director of community affairs, at (504) 731-1795 ornick.karl@saints.nfl.composted by todd glazer | 6 october 2009 rental spaces: 1610 oretha castle haley blvd three 789 rentable square foot spaces rental rate: 1st floor: $1,000/ month 2nd floor: $905.00/ month 3rd floor: $800.00/ month comments: this building is under renovation and should be finished by february 1, 2010.
being an environmental science major, i feel very strongly about the tragedy in the gulf and my personal goal is to bring awareness to uconn students and people in the northeast about the severe immediate and long term consequences of the spill.
• knowledge of energy efficiency building science.
general fee is $150.
to learn more about our open positions and to apply, please visit our website athttp://www.nolacollegeprep.org and click on “career opportunities.
register online at xroadsinstitute.org/cflposted by gnof | 15 march 2011 please join seno (social entrepreneurs of new orleans) and tulane’s social entrepreneurship initiatives for an evening of facilitated convening, networking, and idea sharing with fellow urban innovators, veteran social entrepreneurs, foundation officials, resource providers, elected officials, and policymakers.
each year, approximately 100 youth work toward this vision by identifying areas for improvement within individual schools and the school system as a whole; developing innovative solutions; and acting to make their solutions a reality.
to learn more about the film, watch the trailer, and see what you can do to help visithttp://www.thebiguneasy.com.posted by gnof | 19 july 2011 share your heart and home with a foreign exchange student!
“plus” characteristics for job: willingness to stay with rethink for more than one year; drama, art and other creative skills; experience with middle school-aged youth; experience teaching in pubic schools; ability to get to schools in new orleans east.
donations of school supplies and or holiday refreshments are appreciated.posted by gnof | 14 july 2010 pepsi has set aside $1.3 million for the gulf for the month of august and grant was hoping that we could help spread the word.
we plan to expand the effort this spring.
hjensen@globalrgeen.org – and we’ll hope to see you there!
excellent oral, written and interpersonal skills.
as needed, act as  spokesperson for the organization at meetings, public events, and in the media.
the idea village has secured media coverage for entrepreneurs in inc.com, entrepreneur magazine, financial times, the daily beast, times picayune, cnbc, npr and bloomberg tv and others.
anyone in our congressional district may subscribe to the grants e-newsletter by clicking here or emailingrichmond.grants@mail.house.gov
hear from national experts and noted nonprofit professionals about the  issues you face every day and how to advance your mission through a successful  public policy agenda.
proficiency in managing donor databases (raiser’s edge highly preferred); as well as word and excel.
before and after shots of the site volunteers assembling brightly colored playground equipment & ribbon-cutting ceremonyposted by pamela senatore | 15 november 2011 kiva nola supporters, borrowers, lenders, partners, friends, fans & followers: greetings and thank you!
did you know that the world’s premier conference for nonprofit, government, and corporate organizations is coming to your community this summer?
no charge for high school students.
throughout the prospect.2 biennial, the education and public programs department has worked to encourage the incorporation of contemporary art in the classroom, as well as contemporary art making itself.
when: august 9, 2011, 6 – 8 pm where: behrman center, 2529 general meyer ave.
for more information on this and past events, see our website, here: gg events calendar, or contact heidi jensen at our green building resource center:hjensen@globalgreen.org special thanks to our good friends at whole foods market and atchafalaya restaurant for their generous support.
the competition will be held on october 6th, 2011 at the tulane university freeman auditorium.
ideal candidate will have experience in educational settings as our leading offering is a two year high school based industry program, prostart.
we’ve identified the top five benefit event planning issues, with practical solutions for each, which you can put into action now and build on for your future fundraising success: at this seminar, you will learn how to successfully address these critical areas: *volunteers: recruiting, managing, and retaining *sponsors: recruiting, retaining, and program development *event promotion: marketing, attracting new guests and online programs *budgeting: ticket pricing, cutting unnecessary expenses, and revenue projection *operational efficiency: getting the best return on investment, leveraging past event experience visit http://www.lano.org to register.posted by gnof | 22 march 2011 wednesday, march 23 1:30 pm – registration | 2:00 pm – presentation 5500 paris ave., new orleans, la 70122 (504) 942-3100 speakers: darrell scott, president and founder of rachel’s challenge bud brown, president and general manager of wwl – tv join us and many other new orleans educators and community leaders to hear how you can partner with rachel’s challenge and wwl-tv and start a chain reaction of kindness and compassion.
some were damaged by katrina and some fell victim to disease.
finalists will be recognized and winners announced during the youth change maker awards dinner on october 24, 2009 at xavier university.
write winning grants that stand out against scores of competing submissions • develop focused and realistic budgets • demonstrate that one’s proposal merits excellence and innovation • package professional grant submissions
later, through an exploration of the elements of vocal expression – dynamics, tempo, inflection, repetition, and rest – students learn to read their writing with fluency and expression.
he initially served as my acting cfo.
longue vue house and gardens 7 bamboo rd new orleans, la 70124 the native plants conversations is a grant project funded by the greater new orleans foundation environmental fundposted by uyen phan |
they are about 7-10 years old but they work pretty well, most of the time.
this position will report directly to the executive director.
the “art by committee” murals are collaborative pieces created by the new orleans community of artists and residents.
the program aims to pair african-american college graduates with kipp high school students in order to encourage them to stay on the path to and through college.
outreach, canvassing or  community organizing experience preferred.
dir., stair | 27 august 2009 stair (start the adventure in reading), a nonprofit children’s literacy program is seeking tutors for the fall 2009 semester.
faxed or e-mailed applications will not be accepted.
individuals and organizations who submit a letter of intent will be invited to a technical assistance workshop hosted by the gulfsouth youth action fund youth advisory board on wednesday, december 2, at 6 p.m. at 2115 carondelet st. new orleans, la 70130.
esy nola involves students in all aspects of growing, harvesting, preparing and enjoying food together as a means of awakening their senses, cultivating a school environment that promotes a sense of pride and responsibility for our land and natural resources, and developing a love of fresh, seasonal foods.
plan for the 21st century (the master plan).
nomination forms may be found online at http://www.thegyac.org please send completed nomination forms to: the gulfsouth youth action fund 2009 “change maker” awards 2115
participants will also receive a binder of reference materials including a cd of lectures presented during the workshop.
by sponsoring the concert at $1,000 or more, you also allow an enrolled child and two of his/her family members to attend the event, featuring the louisiana philharmonic orchestra, ellis marsalis, ronnie cole, tributes to pete fountain and fats domino, and more.
qualified applicants should email cover letter and resume to lstone@globalgreen.org for more information on global green, please see our website: http://www.globalgreen.orgposted by christopher a lecz | 7 june 2010 i would like information on how to go about donating funds to aid the fishermen’s families effect by the gulf oil spill.posted by heidi jensen | 3 june 2010
this position is an entry-level role ideal for a recent college graduate seeking to gain knowledge in education and the non-profit sector in order to develop a diverse and well-rounded skill set.
each youth change maker award recipient will be honored with a $500 donation to a non-profit organization or project of his or her choice.
plans for organizational sustainability • viable and well-researched plan for financial sustainability and growth 3.
more information is available at http://www2.ed.gov/programs/charter-rehqcs/applicant.html.posted by gnof | 14 july 2011 happy new year!
life-saving adoption event set for saturday, april 2 beginning at 11am north shore animal league america’s tour for life 2011 – a groundbreaking national tour geared to promoting shelter pet adoptions – will arrive in new orleans to partner with the louisiana spca for a special mobile adoption event at clearview mall on saturday, april 2 beginning at 11am.
past grant awards have ranged from $500 to $5,000.
more details can be found at the following links: http://www.arsts.com http://www.friendsofthefishermen.org/ for press inquiries, interviews, or further information on america’s river: source to sea, please contact nate erickson at natemsu@gmail.com.
information packets concerning the workshop will be mailed out following the registration deadline.
this year’s theme is “age stronger!
title: how to reduce your cost per attendee presenter: james mcdade, senior sales executive date: wednesday, february 16, 2011 @ 2:00 pm-2:30 pm et registration link: i will attend
when: saturday, january 8, 2011, 3:00 pm where: hollygrve market and farm 8301 olive steet new orleans, la 70118 cost: $5.00 with free vegetable, herb and flower seeds available pre-registration required contact ariel: ariel@noffn.org or (504) 864-2009posted by becky bourg | 7 december 2010 the junior league of new orleans and tulane university’s center for public service are pleased to announce “the nuts and bolts of social entrepreneurship: making your nonprofit sustainable and scalable,” brought to you as part of the nonprofit toolkit series and the get on board nonprofit training program.
speakers will give expert advice on how to vent humidity out of your house and keep moisture levels low.
light refreshments served at 5:30 pm, panel presentation begins at 6:00 pm.
please read the message below, fill out the census form hanging on your door, and tell your friends, family, neighbors, and colleagues:stand up and be counted!posted by tara luparello | 9 march 2010
the city will not process an application that does not have all the required items.
discounts available for students and organizations registering two or more people.
this position has opportunities for in-depth training in green rebuilding.
each year stair recruits and trains hundreds of volunteers to work one-on-one with public school second graders to improve their reading and language skills as well as their self-esteem.
** save the date april 27, 2011 annual friendraising luncheon 11:30 am to 1 pm at kingsley house please be our guest on wednesday, april 27th for our annual friendraising luncheon.
proficiency in managing donor databases (raiser’s edge highly preferred);  as well as word and excel.
on thursday, june 17th, highly recognized restaurants across greater new orleans are donating 20% of their dinner proceeds to the la/spca.
access new employment opportunities, funding strategies, and partnerships.
the wild garden, a garden devoted to featuring native plants in an idealized setting, will be the setting for these conversations.
our website continues to grow.
for updated information on this and past panel discussions, please contact heidi jensen at our green building resource center:hjensen@globalgreen.org:posted by vincent fedeli | 13 june 2010 summer is officially here and we know ya’ll are sweatin it out in the big easy.
• supervise flow of invoices and payments to ensure subcontractors are being paid.
a variety of shapes, colors and sizes of four-legged friends eager to find a new home will be available for adoption.
experience: minimum five years of administrative work experience.
click here to register for wednesday, jan 25, 10:30am cst tour click here to register for wednesday, feb 1, 2:00pm cst tourposted by gnof | 23 january 2012 the 2012 water challenge, sponsored by greater new orleans foundation and the idea village, is sponsoring january’s green drinks!
position location: new orleans, la reports to: executive director how to apply: interested and qualified candidates should email their resume, cover letter and contact information for three references to: hollyheine@jerichohousing.org.
tastings of each beer are available in two sizes, samples start from $1 and large beers from $3.
it’s time to move it out of the lab and go into commercial-scale production.
- the rising change maker award will honor a young person in grade 2-5 for outstanding community leadership.
the evening features a silent auction, entertainment by the last straws, cocktails and a fabulous dinner.
no later than 5/1/2011.
what should i do next?
the  rabies vaccination drive is made possible by the louisiana spca, southeast  louisiana veterinary association, city of new orleans health dept., city of new  orleans fire dept., sewerage and water board of new orleans, jefferson parish  animal shelter, and jefferson spca.
well-organized with demonstrated ability to multi-task; • database management skills.
the gulf coast seafood industry was well represented on “top chef” last night.
compensation competitive salary commiserate with experience comprehensive benefits package.
whole foods market | 5600 magazine street new orleans, la 70115 | 504.899.9119 jericho road episcopal housing initiative job description: director of donor relations position: reports to the executive director.
you get a 10% discount on regular, sale and clearance furniture, mattresses, area rugs, all electronics and electrics.
what we need is the “icing on the cake” or to “look the part.”
patron performance thursday, october 20 6:30pm $500 per person public performance saturday, october 22 7:30pm $75 per person $10 public performance tickets available for students with valid id join the freedom ride… a newly commissioned concert opera presented in three vignettes by composer dan shore will be presented outdoors in longue vue’s spanish court.
the executive director ensures that all administrative, programmatic, and financial duties are effectively carried out in accordance with policies set by the board of directors.
the nonprofit sector is an essential player in louisiana’s  public policy arena.
while 325 oak trees remain along judge perez since their original planting by the laurent & lagarde families in the 1970s, over 150 have been lost.
duties • support the teaching and learning goals of xri • assist in documenting the process and work •
in college, while most students spent their spring breaks lounging  in tropical climates, walls and poe organized their friends to kayak, hike, and  camp in a variety of locales.
your support allows us to enhance the quality of our shows at our current hospitals and build opportunities to reach out to new hospitals so we can laugh with more children in more hospitals.
for more information contact: bobby talbot, ccim or todd glazer (504) 525-9763 btalbot@talbot-realty.com / tglazer@talbot-realty.com http://www.talbot-realty.composted by lindasussed | 29 september 2009 hello all… i am a new here and hope i can learn with all of you and discuss about anything.
an open dialog on the next five years of wetland renewal in se louisiana.
this workshop will help you make that a reality.
manage the customer intake and process, ensuring the customer transitions through each step of the nola wise program.
deep roots connect the music of new orleans with the sounds that have emanated from cuba and other spanish speaking nations.
and perhaps more importantly, there is more social cohesion in new orleans, and we’ve gained community competence and problem solving skills that have helped us to take on major reforms.
instead of throwing them away i want to find a non-profit to donate them to.
award notification will be made in november.
carondelet street new orleans, la 70130 nominations may also be requested and received electronically at changemaker@operationreach.org.posted by jason miller | 27 august 2009 please join city year louisiana as we celebrate our 5th anniversary of service to the community!
expert presenters from the nonprofit, corporate  and government sectors will engage participants in hands-on sessions to explore  topics relevant to volunteerism and service.
again is an equal opportunity employer that does not  discriminate against people on the grounds of gender, race, religion, sexual  orientation, disability or marital status.
vote here vote for our tooth bus program once each day, voting continuing through february 28.
our annual chocolate tasting is coming up on january 31 at the theatre at harrah’s casino.
tour for life’s presenting sponsors are purina one® and purina one® beyond pet food brands; the tour is also supported by the american mutt-i-grees® club.
prefer  background in energy efficiency and/or home retrofit contracting, including  home energy audits and energy efficiency financing.
• professional experience in nonprofit, public agency, or construction contractor environment.
jack leslie facilities supervisor asi federal credit union 5508 citrus blvd harahan la 70123 ph: (504) 733-1733 x79187posted by the reuse district | 10 may 2010 who: the reuse district when: saturday may 15th, 2010
wanted to say hello. thanks, andrew mcfaul andrew mcfaul i like the new website and the second line blog.
ability to speak to groups with poise and  professionalism.
hear them share the story of their garden and get your own hands dirty!
education: high school diploma required.
puentes aspires to create an integrated new orleans region in which the latino community is a vital, vibrant and active participant.
more details can be found at the following links: http://www.arsts.com http://www.friendsofthefishermen.org/ for press inquiries, interviews, or further information on  america’s river: source to sea, please contact nate erickson at natemsu@gmail.com.
please rsvp to christy reigert at wwl-tv  at (504) 529-6321 or atcreigert@wwltv.com.
we are accepting and encouraging donations to the gulf coast oil spill fund all night as our audience enjoys a night of cultural celebration through dance, music, improv and other arts.
one brick does not have a physical office, or even a telephone.
new orleans, la 70113 sos nola – saving our sons, city of new orleans “the murder rate in new orleans is unnatural & unacceptable.”
in turn, this readjustment has resulted in millions of federal funds – based on a population formula – flowing to the city.
the gyaf was founded in 2007 to engage, empower and inspire youth with the resources to make strategic investments in their community.
here the idea of “collective impact” or cross-sector collaboration to achieve large-scale social change is not entirely new; but what makes collective impact initiatives different?
foundation for louisiana staff will be holding outreach sessions for nonprofit organizations the week of july 4th.
formerly the crescent fund
i don’t know what i would have done without seno since i don’t have the possibility of hiring someone for all of these different tasks.
$99 or each registration fee will be retained by dcsno.
“the oil spill still impacts many facets of coastal life, habitat,  and industry, but maintaining the security of the people with the most need can  have an important and enduring impact,” said poe.
experience: two years or more of fund raising or related experience.
imported beer, mojitos, tacos al pastor, tortas, tamales, and other latin delicacies will be available.
guided by native plant specialists susan norris-davis and tyrone foreman, the class will finish with a larval host plant-focused walk through our wild garden.
many butterflies and moths larvae feed only on specific native plants.
at6:30 p.m., the lecture and discussion will begin featuring both local and national speakers.posted by gnof | 1 december 2011 saturday, december 10th from 6-9pm first grace united methodist church, 3401 canal street $5-10 suggested donation at the door (no one will be turned away)
after five weeks of training on effective nonprofit governance, each participant will be placed with the board of a new orleans area organization for further service and training.
for more information on this and past events, please see our online calendar or contact heidi jensen at our green building resource center: hjensen@globalgreen.orgposted by gnof | 3 january 2012 puentes new orleans, inc. job description puentes new orleans is a 501c(3) non-profit organization founded in 2007.
this continues the tradition of promoting positive images of our  city and region to the entire nation with previous cooking series like those of  justin wilson, chef paul prudhomme, the great chefs, breakfast from new orleans  and many others.
connect to local organizations.
come one, come all, get hands-on experience.
physical: able to lift 25 pounds and  to perform specified duties 6.
since the oil spill, global green has expanded its efforts to include wetlands restoration and assistance to impacted communities seeking green jobs and a brighter future.
###posted by laura forman | 22 january 2010
for more information and to complete the survey go to: http://tinyurl.com/6fs3g23posted by india brown | 9 july 2011 august 4 & 5 (9 a.m. to 4 p.m. both days)
what: tulane tower learning center grand opening who: new orleans city council members, u.s. attorney james letten, ttlc youth, representatives from yep and delgado where: ttlc, 139 s. broad, new orleans, la when: 11:30am-1:00pm thursday, june 9th, 2011
proficient research skills (both internet and  conventional).
music by dwayne dopsie and the zydeco hellraisers.
are you involved with a non-profit?
the grant training center this intensive three-day grant proposal workshop is geared for: 1) those who wish to strengthen their grant writing skills and 2) beginners who wish to acquire and master the techniques of preparing, writing and winning proposals from various funding agencies.
we will also be connecting social innovators to “connectors” (policy makers, funders, veteran social entrepreneurs, experts, etc.) who are also working to solve similar challenges in the following areas: • healthy food systems • blight/housing • k-12 education (curriculum) • job training • afterschool programs • arts and culture • waste management (recycling, composting, etc.)
• purchase programmatic materials and  supplies as required by budget.
since then, they’ve dug up weeds, built vegetable beds, planted seeds, started a compost heap, and much more.
to apply, visithttp://www.operationreach.org and click on the careers tab.
f r e e …and easy saturday september 5: wildflowers and grasses saturday october 3: woody shrubs and small trees saturday november 7: oak and magnolia trees saturday december 5: hollies and other evergreens
this workshop is open to the first 20 interested community members and is the first in a series of native plant workshops which will be held across se louisiana.
come to this free workshop to learn about radiant barrier, solar shades, hvac maintenance, and other ways to keep your home cool while saving money.
with all the effects of the bp disaster still unknown and the specter of new coal plants in our future, now is the time to take action.
this summit will present the actions we can do ourselves.posted by gnof | 18 march 2010
ability to speak to groups with poise and professionalism.
________________________________________________ our exclusive nola green dat t-shirts are available at our green building resource center and holy cross project, or click here to find out more and donate: nola green dat.
results are shown instantly below feedback deadline: march 16th, 2012, 5:00pm application deadline: march 30th, 2012, 5:00pm new ventures accelerator overview: social entrepreneurs are innovative problem solvers who are passionate about solving what others may see as intractable social problems.
get on board “spring” session wednesday evenings january 19, 2011 through february 16, 2011, 6 – 9pm graduation reception february 23, 2011 location the junior league of new orleans headquarters 4319 carondelet street new orleans, la 70115 (504) 891-5845 get on board “spring” session kickoff party nonprofit / participant mixer wednesday, january 12, 2011, 6:30 pm st. bernard project 8324 parc place chalmette, la 70043 cost $250 – includes kickoff party, training, materials, dinner, beverages and graduation celebration.
green n.o. is a collaborative economic development organization serving the 10-parish region of southeast louisiana.
our ‘commitment-free volunteering’ allows you to choose when you volunteer, rather than having to make commitments for a certain number of volunteer hours, or agree to be available every week at a specific time.
this month, join global green usa program manager camille lopez to discuss nola wise – an exciting new energy efficiency, job creation and financing program to help new orleanians live comfortably, save energy, and save money.
- alliance for justice visit http://www.lano.org for a full agenda and to register.posted by gnof | 18 march 2011 moon landrieu former mayor, city of new orleans dr. norman francis president, xavier university william winter former governor, state of mississippi myrlie evers-williams founder and ceo, medgar & myrlie evers institute you are invited to hear their perspectives.
together the new orleans ama, women in media, public relations association of louisiana, international association of business communicators, new orleans metropolitan convention and visitors bureau, idea village, louisiana society of hospital public relations and marketing, business council of new orleans and the river region and the association of fundraising professionals invite you to join us for a special luncheon on october 21.
back office construction operations and project management logistics, including: - administering build now’s web-based construction management system, including tracking and managing scheduling, purchasing, pricing, and reporting - collaborating closely with sales and construction staff to ensure client and project data is tracked and implemented correctly - assisting sales team in developing prospect tracking and sales management systems - managing (collecting/creating and tracking) all paperwork required by banks, safety & permits, insurance companies, sub-contractors, etc - overseeing creation of internal procedural documents, sales support materials, and marketing materials.
the consolidated plan is the planning and application process for four formula grants totaling approximately $24.8 million for 2011:
by taking action on national make a difference day.
tentative schedule all events at osbg (1740 benton street)
last but not least, speakers will discuss storm water management and water catchment systems.
to register: please visit our website or call us toll free at (866)-704-7268 or (571) 257-8864 louisiana spca june 16, 2011 participating in this event is simple – just eat dinner at one of the listed restaurants (see below).
driving higher attendance to events and meetings •
lead direct mail campaign to local and national funders ; liaise with hq on fundraising activities ; work with program manager and nola director on bibg funding priorities special events:
please support the rethinkers as they continue to grow and push for youth-driven reform.
this is fundraising event for the development department at daughters of charity services (dcsno) of new orleans.
• liaise with technical staff on client follow ups and maintaining high customer service standards.
see you there!posted by kaseem short | 24 august 2011
yet while the situation is tragic, it is not hopeless.
the concept paper deadline is february 22, 2010, 5:00 est.
tuesday, may 31st 6:00pm to 8:00pm green building resource center 841 carondelet street new orleans, la 70130
this month, join global green usa’s new orleans director beth galante and leading coastal experts from the state of louisiana and the local environmental industry to discuss initiatives to help louisiana communities adapt to the reality of our changing coastlines.
from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the veterans store.
we are slated for 11 houses by the end of the accelerator program.
a flum amendment may affect a site’s zoning designation when zoning is revised comprehensively or when a zoning change application is submitted.
the training is designed to help your organization design and implement an effective program evaluation.
please consider being a part of this grass roots effort!
why: small business hires account for 64% of all u.s. jobs created providing loan capital to grow our small business equals more local jobs.
outreach, canvassing or community organizing experience preferred.
grantwriting for beginners is a hands-on workshop that gives you the basic skills you need to start writing grants.
reserve your spot today!
”posted by howard l. rodgers, iii | 30 march 2010 age strong!
regular duties include, but are not limited to, the following: 1.
organization description project home again is a  small, private nonprofit organization that was created by the leonard and  louise riggio foundation immediately after hurricane katrina to provide new  homes for homeowners who had lost their homes in the flood.
doors open at 6:00pm and admission is free.
click here to download the 2009 cqb form all applications must be postmarked to the new orleans saints no later than december 1, 2009.
come learn about native plants of louisiana, which are better adapted to the extreme conditions of our area and which are also more pest and disease resistant.
- work with the national team to develop and refine the national training model.
we hope to see you there!posted by laney white | 12 august 2011 come to this free workshop to learn about simple tools and tasks to improve the comfort and energy efficiency of your home.
september’s discussion, hosted by global green, will focus on ways that we can transition away from fossil fuels – saving our communities, our planet – and our money in the process.
additional experience will be considered when hiring.
proceeds from the golden tassel gala help provide act test preparation, college scholarships for graduating seniors, and summer enrichment scholarships for younger students–all in jefferson parish public schools.
baton rouge, la 70816 telephone (225) 295-0655 fax (225) 295-0677 nattie’s creative arts therapy, inc. need a location to operate from.
funded by the corporation for public broadcasting, this project recently convened a forum to discuss the dropout issue in our region and what can be done about it.
plan for the 21st century (the master plan) complete application required: new orleans 2030:
accomplishments in these areas of responsibility and in abiding by  affirmative action/eoe laws and requirements, when appropriate, will be the  basis of the employee’s evaluation, continuation of employment and change  of compensation.
we publish two categories of material: dossiers and essays.
each year when the city goes through its budget planning process the mayor and city council ask for public input.
to buy tickets or for more information call gina jackson (504) 523-6221, x127 or emailgjackson@kingsleyhouse.orgposted by gnof | 12 may 2011
so gather your friends & family and dine out for our animals!
the desire to seek external support, services, coaching, and mentoring to build a stronger platform to achieve the venture’s mission •
principally responsible for supporting the management of the office, assisting with accounting operations, human resources, website maintenance and designated administrative functions.
by providing these services and resources at locations more convenient and accessible to parents, the district hopes to meet the needs of parents and students more efficiently and effectively.
now’s registrations, licenses, and renewals - providing day to day management and oversight to ensure smooth functioning of business operations - establishing and maintaining productive partnerships with public and private agencies, community and faith based organizations in pursuance of the organization’s mission - representing build now at meetings and public events
develop relationships with neighborhood associations and non-profit agencies, attend neighborhood association meetings, research organizations and agencies that provide complimentary services outreach strategies:
first baptist church of new orleans, 5290 canal blvd nola monday, september 21 1:30 – 3:30 p.m.** woodland presbyterian church, 5824 berkley drive, nola wednesday, september 23 1:30 – 3:30 p.m**.
when: tuesday, march 22, 2011 where: mahalia jackson theatre 1419 basin street new orleans, la 70116 time: 6:00 – 8:00 pm
most importantly guest speaker mike bowen of humblehg, llc will discuss how to save money by installing the appropriate system for your home and apartment.
• directly supervise the  administrative coordinator, who is responsible for reporting and invoicing.
joshua jackson of earth friendly plumbing and dustin oubre of hamilton sales will discuss tankless water heaters, dual flush toilets, reverse osmosis water filters, and other ways to save on your utility bills.
* project is a stand-alone effort and operates independently of existing organizations (including, but not limited to, resources, governance, management, staff, and infrastructure).
early applications are much appreciated.posted by gnof | 20 january 2011 education career pathways in new orleans thursday, january 27, 2011 6:00pm – 8:00pm career panel discussion followed by: q&a breakout sessions with career leaders & cocktails & conversations hosted in the edible schoolyard garden samuel j. green charter school 2319 valence street (at s. liberty street) new orleans, la 70115 to rsvp: http://tinyurl.com/ecpnola2011 questions: nolaedupathways@gmail.com or 504.444.4629
information collected in this survey questionnaire will be published in the spring 2012 c2e notebook.
working closely with the foundation members,  commission, and ceo, the chief development officer will pursue and cultivate  high-potential major gifts.
wise also connects homeowners to trusted, vetted, and nationally certified green contractors, and provides incentives and low interest loans to help pay for your upgrades.
it contains policy recommendations across a spectrum of topics, but with a particular focus on the built environment.
looking for a small, secure office to meet survivors of domestic violence on an as-needed basis in plaquemines parish.
download application here!
snagfilms, in partnership with biglive.com, will feature live screenings  and filmmaker q&a onthursday, april 21 and friday, april 22 .
-experience working with groups in a “circle” setting (such as story circles, conflict resolution circles, etc.)
we will also be holding a raffle with prizes donated by local vendors to collect additional donations.
the details: the desktop copiers are what i would all “industrial strength,” in that they are literally desktop versions of a stand alone file room type copier.
gjackson@kingsleyhouse.org help longue vue make history.
again, a community development nonprofit in new orleans, is  seeking a summer intern to work on three community revitalization projects.
therefore, we are calling this month’s event “blue” drinks.
they became interested in making drip while participating in waggonner & ball’s dutch dialogues initiative to develop better water management strategies in new orleans and the mississippi delta.
to be held in new orleans, the current hotbed of green and sustainability issues westin canal place | october 13 -15, 2010 special rates available for municipal employees, associations, students and non-profits.
attendees will receive a certificate of participation after completing the workshop.
the water challenge hopes to elevate the opportunities that exists in water-related industries.
they are black and in decent condition.
brews are represented from local, national, and international breweries and a dozen home brews will also be available.
- oversee the regional implementation of leader impact projects by teacher-leaders and assist with revisions as needed.
(details:http://www.onebrick.org/about)
in the 1970s, new york city hit rock bottom.
dear friends, the gulfsouth youth action fund (gyaf), a program of operation reach, inc., is now accepting grant proposals for its 2010 grantmaking year.
position includes full benefits including 401k plan.
native plant specialists susan norris-davis and tyrone foreman will each lead 40-minute discussions about native plants for your landscape the first saturday of every month.
please send your resume with a letter of interest to juliana@youngleadershipcouncil.org.posted by gnof | 22 december 2011 the st. bernard community foundation would like to remind you of the release of the 2nd round of curb appeal project application for businesses along judge perez drive, st. bernard highway and paris road.
what would happen at your organization if you never had to worry about your funding?
gratz who was named as one of planetizen’s top 100 urban thinkers gives an on-the-ground account of urban renewal and community success.
our very kind friends at the rusty nail (www.therustynail.org) and cg’s cafe are hosting cocktails for a cause in our honor.
the tracks for drip were originally recorded for an installation presented as part of descours (an annual public art and architecture event in new orleans) at the union passenger terminal in 2010.
stop worrying about spring street flooding and soggy spots in your yard, and come learn how to live with our rain.
where: touro synagogue 4238 st. charles avenue who: nopd superintendent ronal serpas & district attorney leon cannizzaro.
his decline in the late 1960s and the drying up of big government funding for urban renewal projects allowed new york to organically regenerate according to the precepts defined by jane jacobs in her classic, the death and life of great american cities, and in contradiction to moses’s urban philosophy.
participants include: eric dumbaugh, ph.d., florida atlantic university william gilchrist, city of new orleans director of place-based planning john norquist, cnu president & ceo councilmember kristin gisleson palmer, district c john l. renne, ph.d., aicp, university of new orleans jonathan tate, professor of architecture, tulane school of architecture
i’m absolutely enjoying your blog and look forward to new posts.posted by gnof | 2 june 2011
compensation: salary commensurate with experience.
free and open to the public.
posted by gnof | 28 march 2011 north shore animal league america’s tour for life® 2011… arrives in new orleans to assist local shelters in finding homes for  homeless pets!
take part in this free workshop to learn how to find the funds to green your house.
applicants should be able to climb ladders,  perform exterior assessments in the summer heat of a semi-tropical environment,  etc.
many of the murals have included contributions from students throughout the new orleans area and beyond.
it is just in time for early christmas shopping at a great price!
proficient research skills (both internet and conventional).
green coast enterprises’ co-founder reuben teague will discuss the innovative financing options available to all homeowners or residential rental property owners in new orleans, contractor selection, and how contractors can take advantage of job training opportunities available through the nola wise program.
today, with the help of 11 local experts systematically documenting seven major post-katrina reforms, 20 indicators stretching back to 1980, feedback from dozens of community leaders, and countless hours of brookings’ expertise on resilience, federal policy, economic development and more, we bring you… the new orleans index at five.
preparation of recurring journal entries as required.
renaissance is committed to providing children in neworleans with a top quality, college preparatory curriculum and a caring environment that inspires, prepares and empowers leaders for college and beyond.
• reconciliation of corporate and subsidiary bank accounts.
in the past year, the rethinkers have created meaningful changes in their schools and modeled the power of “leadership among, not leadership over.”
easy access to to interstate and crescent city connection.
featuring rockin’ dopsie, jr!
free parking is available in the rear of the building.
principally responsible for processing the accounting transactions of the organization, maintaining accounting schedules, financial document management, providing support for the corporate audits, year-end reporting and compliance reporting.
nonprofits, foundations, communities and individuals  should make their voices heard in our democratic process – alongside  business and other private interests.
through this free workshop, global green usa and local solar experts will arm you with the knowledge you need to power your home with solar energy.
eligibility requirements • founder, co-founder, or leader of an early-stage social venture currently in operation or in development (for-profit/non-profit/hybrid; no more than 2 years in existence with paid staff or no more than 2 full-time employees) •
fore more information, give us a call at (504) 525-2121 or e-mail lwhite@globalgreen.org.posted by gnof | 12 september 2011 ged classes at harmony oaks!
thank you for paving the way for our future college graduates and for all that you will continue to do for our students.
to apply, please send cover letter and resume to judy young at 1300 perdido street, chief administrative office 9th floor new orleans, la 70112.
we are seeking candidates with the following characteristics: -creative, resourceful, confident, dynamic, dependable -ability to work independently and in a team -loves children and has at least two years experience working with youth.
for more information about the parent-family resource centers, call 1-877-343-4773.posted by gnof | 20 june 2011 at the cac first floor sound chamber opening reception: june 25, 2011, 6 – 8pm drip: the music of water in new orleans is a sound installation created by john kleinschmidt and andy sternad, intern architects at waggonner & ball.
commitment of 15 hours per week requested.
thursday, april 29, 2010 5:30 pm: doors open 6:00 pm: speaker and q&a 7:00 pm: refreshments louisiana humanities center at turners’ hall 938 lafayette street new orleans, la 70113
gulfsouth youth action fund proposal if you have questions or need more information, please contact cynthia okechukwu at (504) 529-1922 ext.
we include guest lectures from issue experts; visits from creative professionals including artists, poets, musicians and dancers; and field trips.
the ideal candidate will be a proven strategic leader with a passion for improving educational opportunities for urban students, creating programming that develops the whole child through a comprehensive food education (cooking, gardening, cafeteria reform) approach, and a commitment to firstline schools and esy nola’s mission, vision and growth plans.
temporary signs must be removed, dumpsters must be removed from the rights-of-way and screened, and landscaping must replace these unsightly items.
through a detailed study of the elements of prosody – rhythm, rhyme, alliteration, repetition, and form – students learn to write poetry with cadence and flow.
by introducing the powerful relationships between music, the expressive language of poetry, and reading and writing.
scholarships available.
community outreach coordinator (americorps vista)
to rsvp by the deadline of october 18, 2010 the 17th annual golden tassel gala, which benefits jefferson dollars for scholars, will be held on friday, september 24, 2010 at the pontchartrain center.
a digital-volunteer typically volunteers their own talents to global green.
that’s right – the idea village is launching its action-packed 2012 entrepreneur season and looking for the next crop of high-growth local entrepreneurs to receive free, world-class consulting, mentorship and capital.
steve picou of the lsu agcenter will address the issue of moisture management and the importance of water conservation.
as liaison between school administration and rethink staff -keep weekly notes in google docs and materials necessary for updates and evaluation.
the salvation army & judah taub deperately need volunteers & financial aid.
are you hosting a workshop on grant writing?
they submitted their model to the “school of the future design competition,” a national contest for middle school students sponsored by cefpi (council of educational facility planners international).
checkhttp://www.lano.org for conference details.
this is a wonderful opportunity to shop and help family service at the same time.
it’s the 6th anniversary of katrina, and, on sunday, august 28th . . .
please bring guests (first two guests free of charge)
to date, the organization has built 70 handsome, energy-efficient homes throughout the gentilly neighborhood.
you’ll learn ways to assess your resources, set fundraising goals, and create a calendar that will keep you on track.
the bulk of the job will entail performing energy efficiency assessments on single-family homes.
communications and public relations • coordinates with internal and external stakeholders to support the production of newsletters, solicitations, and annual reports 6.
guests will also enjoy a “taste of new orleans,” buffet featuring authentic cuisine from local restaurants.
preference for degree in urban planning, public policy, building management,  energy efficiency, environmental studies, architecture or related field;  graduate degree and leed ap a plus.
please join us as we celebrate our new eco-friendly practices with delicious food and spirits, plus exciting auction packages.
accurately inputs and tracks major gifts with impeccable confidentiality • assists the director of development with major gift cultivation involving board members and/or the president 3.
of the $1 million awarded, $600,000 will be distributed directly to local nonprofits currently serving or planning to serve residents in central city, new orleans through a competitive request for proposals (rfp) process.
hear from national experts and noted nonprofit professionals about the issues you face every day and how to advance your mission through a successful public policy agenda.
the successful candidate will perform such other tasks as may be  required for the effective operation of the department upon request by his/her  supervisor.
local experts will show you how to prevent and manage major new orleans issues like mold, carbon monoxide, voc’s, and lead.
along the way we made some important discoveries.
before paradise is lost: the oil spill in the gulf and our community response this month’s panel will focus on our collective response to the deepwater oil spill in the gulf of mexico – as we organize and promote training opportunities for volunteers and paid workers who wish to join the efforts to save our coastal communities, wetlands, and way of life.
the general public, as well as representatives from the business, housing, educational, social service, non-profit, and faith-based communities are invited and encouraged to attend.
for more information on the water challenge, visit theidea
member duties : fundraising: research prospects for fundraising ; assist with grant writing;
visit lacoast.gov tell us what you think we welcome your comments!
develop internal systems designed to improve program  efficiencies.
date: saturday, jan 14th time: 1:00-3:00 pm city: new orleans address: 1712 oretha castle haley blvd.
contact person: luanne francis how you can participate: *bring a baby blanket, book or pampers, *attend an orientation session on birthing project sisterfriends, the nationally recognized one-on-one support program for pregnant and parenting teens and women, *become a sisterfriend .
belle terre playground 5600 bell terre rd (marrero)
tuesday, may 25th 6:00pm –
mallory@therethinkers.org want a lower water bill and a healthier home?
essential job functions/responsibilities •
this  position has opportunities for in-depth training in green rebuilding.
the rsvp nofa totals $2.7 million in new funding that will be made available through a national competition to grow the number of rsvp volunteers through a combination of new grants in communities not served by rsvp volunteers and an expansion of existing grants.
• communicate regularly with partner agencies and gg headquarters office on financial, programmatic and documentation needs.
the teaching team at each site includes a rethink lead facilitator and a college intern.
mr. rush will provide overview of the green n.o initiative and its various subparts, including marketing, policy and green jobs.
thank you!posted by heidi jensen | 6 january 2012 january’s monthly sustainability series: how building automation systems can help achieve sustainability global green usa proudly partners with the aia, new orleans chapter and usgbc, la chapter to present a monthly panel and community discussion series on issues of sustainability and environmental responsibility.
general overview the gulfsouth youth action fund (gyaf) is a youth-led philanthropy initiative developed in 2007 by operation reach, inc., in conjunction with the greater new orleans foundation (gnof), and made possible through generous support from the blue cross blue shield of louisiana foundation, the starbucks foundation, and legacy® foundation, as well as private donations.
demonstrated  ability to work individually and as part of a hard working, creative team.
• beet dat team captain: rachel glicksman • edible schoolyard team captain: katie bingham • juust fuud team captain: jyaphia christos-rodgers • mad hella beaucoup team captain: jayeesha dutta • octupi en regalia team captain: brennan daughtry • reheaters team captain:
workshop dates august 18-19: civic group and community leaders august 25-26: members of the media, journalists and artists september 8-9:
no appointment is necessary for the formal application submittal; however, an appointment with a city planner is necessary for the early consultation.
asii people might remember them as the fax they are forced to use.
prosody refers to the patterns of rhythm and sound used in poetry, and the patterns of stress and intonation in language.
developing flexible registration forms •
his research areas include street and community design, urban mobility, transportation systems planning, and the effects of transportation investments on sustainability and livability.
facilitator: dr. bev browning, author of grant writing for dummies.
patron party 8:00 p.m. – 12:00 a.m.
noffn invites you to learn how to develop and maintain a healthy home composting system needed for replenishing essential soil nutrients.
deadline to apply: october 28, 2011.
effective use of social media.
after completion the two-day condensed training sessions on effective nonprofit governance, each participant will be placed with the board of a new orleans area organization for further service and training.
these homes will be gifted to families earning up to 120% of the area median income whose homes were damaged during the storm and who have been unable to rebuild and return.
please see the job description below and help us spread the word about this fantastic opportunity!
the mercury’s rising, but your bills don’t have to!
come to this free workshop to learn how weatherstripping, insulation, duct sealing, and other measures can keep your house warm and dry throughout the winter.
what is kipp renaissance?
after arriving on our red carpet, the evening will begin with an exclusive patron party for our vips from 6:30-8 p.m. the fun will continue at the general party from 7:30 to 11:30 p.m.
this is a one-of-a-kind professional development tool that keeps you informed about great books and best practices in the nonprofit world.
a limited number of partial scholarships of $100, the cost of which are underwritten by the junior league of new orleans, are available and will be awarded on a first-come, first-serve basis.
-help coordinate spring rethink club summit – an event that brings all rethink club members together in one location for a day.
when: thursday, dec. 9 from 6 to 8 p.m. where: bouche restaurant 840 tchoupitoulas street price: $15 per person please rsvp to info@bouchenola.com the junior league of new orleans is pleased to offer the upcoming five-week, wednesday evening, “spring” session of the get on board nonprofit board training program, beginning january 19, 2011.
the “opsbrief” email updates are free of charge, and anyone interested in signing up can do so by visiting http://www.eastbankcollaborative.com.
the louisiana children’s museum is painting the town green for the 11th annual chairish the children auction gala, presented by capital one.
save our gulf will be selling fine art  prints in an effort to help clean up the gulf.
we are seeking a summer intern to assist with all three projects.
what is page to practice and how do i access it?
grants coordinator (americorps vista)
we encourage all qualified organizations to submit their information and look forward to working with you on this exciting program.
organizations should complete one survey including all services available regardless of the number of locations served.
as we are focusing our time & efforts on manufacturing an enormous amount of habitats, we plan to leave our website at just one page (as it is right now), so we can carry out our main goal, which is to provide thousands of much needed habitats.
audience members will be choosing an “audience favorite” in addition to providing feedback and connections.
jane’s walks are fun, engaging and participatory – everyone’s got a story and they’re usually keen to share it.
water is one of the world’s most valuable resources, and louisiana – rich in water resources – has yet to take full advantage of the business opportunities associated with it.
you have a sounding board you need to test a lot of the ideas and talk the problems that you’re having.
there are so many people who need your help chile & haiti earthquake survivors require assistance.
no matter the motivation, building automation systems (bms) can contribute greatly achieving sustainability goals.
posted by gnof | 27 april 2011
we need business participation.
st, baton rouge, la 70810 city year unites young people of all backgrounds for a year of full-time service, giving them the skills and opportunities to change the world.
the event will feature a tasting of all four clean coast wines, hors d’oeuvres and door prizes.
“are we moving in the right direction?”
to register, visithttp://www.thefundingseed.com.posted by gnof | 10 january 2012 saturday, january 21 from 12-2 pm for the exhibition opening of the prospect.2 student biennial at the prospect visitor center, 1036 esplanade avenue.
annual fund raising – in collaboration with and under the supervision of the director of development • maintains all development and fund raising records in the strictest confidence •
the development assistant reports to the director of  development.
here is a link to novak http://novacvideo.org/iphone-development-workshop/
specifically, we’re commemorating today’s one-year anniversary  of the gulf oil spill by promotinghunting for oil, a short documentary.
please join us as we come together as a community with the gulf restoration network, the coalition to restore coastal louisiana, louisiana bucket brigade and the lake pontchartrain basin foundation in response to this man-made and avoidable disaster – how we’ll clean up the catastrophic mess in the coming weeks, support the fishermen and people of the communities most directly impacted – and how we can restore and protect our coastlines, our environment, and our future.
speaker presentations 6:05:pm: recognition of local green businesses 6:10-7:00: green holiday bazaar, drinks, music featuring the basil splash, first drink free,$5 afterposted by gnof | 5 december 2011 join the claiborne corridor improvement coalition for a discussion on the future of claiborne avenue on december 6 at 6 p.m. at the louisiana endowment for the humanities center.
please ask for erica.
to date, the  organization has built 70 handsome, energy-efficient homes throughout the  gentilly neighborhood.
together, we set and reach short- and long-term goals through our milestone activity plan (map) for deep social impact and financial sustainability • support occurs in areas such as: • building financial models • making introductions to potential clients, funders, policymakers, investors, and/or media •
excellent knowledge of fundraising principles and practices.
what: the reuse district will host refest, an all-day festival promoting creative reuse in new orleans.
application process 1.
did you know that the world’s premier conference for nonprofit,  government, and corporate organizations is coming to your community
for every $5 donation to the louisiana spca guests will receive a $10 gift certificate to the melting pot.
experience: two years or more of fund raising or related  experience.
i would definitely recommend seno’s
in addition to having adoptable shelter dogs, cats, puppies and kittens, the event will also offer information on the benefits of adopting shelter pets, behavioral education, and special services available to pet owners at the louisiana spca as well as a bake sale, boxer rescue kissing booth, giveaways and more!
grant awards range from $500 to $5,000.
the position is open until filled, although a preliminary application deadline is january 31st, 2011.
named best of jeff charity event by readers of jefferson life magazine in 2009 and 2010, we anticipate another banner year this year with 800 to 1,000 attendees.
• knowledge of new orleans demographics and  culture.
searchable by topic, each book record includes an executive summary, nonprofit interpretations, highlighted passages and an original author interview.
see john kania’s brief video on collective impact.
una-usa, new orleans is a non-profit organization that works to establish strong links between the greater new orleans community and the united nations through research and educational programs.
to reserve a place contact hilairie schackai at hschackai@longuevue.com or 504.488.5488, ext.
you don’t want to miss the important discussion on the role of nonprofits in public policy and how we can affect policy changes that will improve conditions for our organizations and our clients.
to make a donation, click on “make a donation”here or donate by mail or phone.
essential job functions/responsibilities • manage all aspects of office operations, including: procurement, maintenance, inventory, document management, contracts management and recordkeeping; • process all incoming mail, including date stamping and delivery to the president; • answer and transfer all incoming phone calls to appropriate staff; • administer receivables, cash receipts, payables and cash disbursements as described in the accounting policies and procedures; • maintain hard copy and electronic filing system for corporate documents; • ensure timely submittal of employee timesheets; • assist in analyzing and implementing organizational practices and operating policies; • assist in the coordination, retrieval, and timely submission of information and documents required for audits and grant reporting; • manage the procurement process for office expenditures and annually assist the cfo in conducting a fixed asset audit; • coordinate with the payroll administrator to complete steps in the new hire process; • administer vendor compliance with1099 reporting and insurance requirements; • maintain gchp website as required; • perform other activities as requested by president or chief financial officer.
106 or at aanthony@operationreach.org with any questions regarding the general gyaf proposal.
these extraordinary young people look forward to attending local high schools and living like american teens with an american host family while improving their english language skills and sharing their heritage with their adopted communities.
http://www.npnnola.com/trumpets/view/256/write-for-the-trumpetposted by gnof | 22 december 2011
for more information, call (504) 525-2121 or e-mail lwhite@globalgreen.org.posted by gnof | 16 june 2011 please join broadmoor development corporation & partners friday, june 17 at 1:30 pm 3928 delachaise street come and celebrate the construction of the four usgbc 2010 natural talent design competition winning designs!
demonstrated ability to work individually and as part of a hard working,  creative team.
cherie elizabeth rankin crankin@cityyear.org or 504.338.3917 reception prior to opening day ceremony 11:00am-12:00pm at the louisiana state museum 660 n 4th
it must seek to advance an idea and organization at a very early phase.
the new orleans cvb is supporting an event called “dine america: america’s night out for gulf seafood”.
la/spca adoption counselors and volunteers will be on hand to help you select the right pet for your family.
qualifications for this volunteer position include: college degree; good verbal, written, computer and telephone skills; interest in policy and environment.
channels 12.1, 12.2, 12.3.
come enjoy our green vendors for those of you who are still searching for that perfect gift for that special someone.
intern will be asked to attend meetings, take notes, research information, draft minutes and reports, and in general do what is needed to further the policy and advocacy work of global green.
they are led by anyone who has an interest in the neighborhood where they live, work or hang out.
separate entrance, secure lot.
on december 1st, more than 170 chefs and restaurants in cities across the country will participate in the first “america’s night out for gulf seafood” to promote the safety of gulf seafood in light of the bp oil spill.
ogden after hours takes place from 6:00 – 8:00 pm weekly at 925 camp street.
many times over the past five years, the citizens of new orleans have proven that we have the spirit and determination it takes to rebuild this city.
global green’s build it back green program tuesday, june 29th 6:00pm – 8:00pm at: good work network 1824 oretha castle haley blvd.
to celebrate,snagfilms presents  earth day 2011:
the second of a five part series this workshop will focus on how to conserve water and save on utility bills by installing water efficient appliances, faucets and showerheads.
our attendees will also be participating in service projects across the  city including the restoration of 24 parks and play places and a sports  equipment donation drive.
in addition, please forward this notice to other organizations that you think are good candidates for this program.posted by shoshannah | 29 january 2010
light breakfast and lunch provided.
on wednesday, july 27th at 6:00 p.m. join the arts council and eric hess of hess marketing as he discusses: attracting attention from major funders.
click on the link below to access the survey.
please rsvp to amy chandler by may 30 amy@gnof.orgposted by global green usa | 18 may 2011
build it back green healthy green home series: water efficiency and moisture control-
this position works closely with the ceo of firstline schools, school leaders, and the esy nola taskforce.
well-organized with  demonstrated ability to multi-task; • database management skills.
the grants listing for august 2011 can be found here.posted by judy m. ford | 1 august 2011 january 17th – 20th, 2012 new orleans, la.
the registration process can take between three to five business days, or longer if all steps are not completed in a timely manner.
the vsw is a key member of a “village team” – that consists of a social worker; instructor; and assistant instructor.
panel participants will include: · andrea chen, founder and director, social entrepreneurs of new orleans (seno) · liz mccartney, founder, st. bernard project · tim williamson, founder and ceo, the idea village · beth stelson, volunteer, outreach, & marketing coordinator, the green project what: social entrepreneurship seminar when: december 8, 2010 at 6pm where: junior league of new orleans headquarters, 4319 carondelet street, 70115.
the “opsbrief” emails are created by ken ducote and rose drill-peterson on behalf of the eastbank collaborative of charter schools and are not official correspondences from the orleans parish school board.posted by melisa jones | 12 august 2011
take part in this hands-on workshop and learn how to perform small-scale weatherizations.
this job description does not imply that these are the only duties to be  performed.
speakers from the bdc/bia, the salvation army, nora, landis, and others will be present.
poe and walls seek to raise at least $2,350 for the friends of the fishermen fund, representing one dollar for each mile paddled.
seno is hosting a workshop (conducted by bond pr and beurmann miller and fitzgerald) and distinguished panel of television and print reporters to share strategies and best practices to access and leverage the media for social change.
each participant, aged between 25 and 40, contributes $500, completely tax-deductible, which sponsors then match dollar-for-dollar.
workshops include a reuse carpentry workshop at the green project, a mural workshop at trouser house, a book art workshop at beth’s books, reused t-shirt printing workshop with dr. bob art, and a bike repair and bike art workshop at r.u.b.a.r.b. from 5pm to 6:30pm, charitable film network will lead a film screening on “the story of stuff” followed by a panel discussion with representatives from the green project, rebuilding together new orleans, and trouser house.
national street design expert eric dumbaugh will discuss the corridor’s current design as well as present research on the efficiency and safety of connected street networks.
name of organization executive director’s email address and phone number contact person’s title, email address and phone number website (if available) 100 word description of what your organization achieves we will contact you regarding next steps.
benefits package  included.
tony laska of conservation services group, david lessinger of sustainable environmental enterprises, and global green’s own home energy rater, myron warden, who will discuss energy efficiency upgrades, alternative energy choices and lifestyle changes that everyone can implement in their homes and businesses with our minds toward not only environmental responsibility but personal financial savings as well.
inc is a non-profit community education corporation dedicated to providing high-quality educational opportunities for youth and their families.
after the live webinar event, you may access the recorded presentation as often as desired.
because of seno’s accelerator, i feel like i have a team now.
posted by gnof | 14 april 2011 emerging philanthropists of new orleans (epno) formerly the crescent fund, epno gives young leaders itchin’ to  improve new orleans the opportunity to get educated on philanthropic giving,  and to allocate some serious cash to local organizations making serious change.
proficient in microsoft office products including: outlook, word, excel and powerpoint.
for participating restaurants and more information, please visithttp://www.la-spca.org.posted by lori haeuser | 20 may 2010 “toasts & tiki-tails” wine tasting will be held on june 3 at canine connection, located at 4920 tchoupitoulas st., from 6:00pm-8:00pm.
announcement: invitation to participate in a nonprofit capacity building program urban strategies was recently awarded a $1 million grant from the u.s. department of health and human services strengthening communities fund.
for more information or to rsvp, contact mallory falk: mallory@therethinkers.org 412.708.7392 global green usa will host an exclusive green 100 vip cocktail reception on october 27 with wendell pierce at second line stages, the nation’s first certified green independent film studio.
the theme of the workshop is “profiles in partnerships,” and panelists will speak on the collaborative nature of all adult literacy instructional programs.
green financing workshop: the event will now be held at 841 baronne street due to filming on carondelet.
program associate global green usa seeks a committed and energetic person to join our new orleans office in the nola wise energy efficiency financing program.
for further information, please contact barry m. walton at 504.658.4348 or donna pearson at 504.658.4347.
normally the top sites are full of garbage.posted by pamela senatore | 26 august 2011
whatever the issue—poverty, education,  healthcare, public safety, environmental protection—nonprofit  organizations can be expected to provide critical expertise and direct service  to the betterment of lives across the state.
proficiency in microsoft office products including outlook, word, excel and powerpoint.
attend trainings on green building  technologies and sustainable design.
please no phone calls.posted by heidi jensen | 6 may 2011 new orleans program assistant global green usa seeks a committed and energetic person to join our new orleans office in the nola wise energy efficiency financing program.
the training will be held at the st. bernard nordc center, 1600
ms. womack is one of six fellows selected this year.
we enable people to get involved, have an impact and have fun, without the requirements of individual long-term commitments.
fellow william stoudt //
edit and add to the fact sheets for resource center and online, provide technical assistance to homeowners.
build your civic engagement infrastructure •
the education partners include the roots of music, the new orleans museum of art, kids rethink new orleans schools, the new orleans kid camera project, and the ogden museum of southern art.posted by tori bush | 9 january 2012 creative alliance of new orleans and moving stories dance project are currently accepting applications for creative capital’s core curriculum workshop presented on march 9-11, 2012.
• seno has partnered with internationally recognized social entrepreneurship nonprofits.
the buses are on the road five days a week and visit nine locations throughout the metropolitan area.
for a copy of the application, please call the above number.
this event is sponsored by don q rum; all don q drinks will be discounted, and $2 from every don q drink sold and $1 from every other drink sold will be donated to funny bones improv.
to view the video from last year’s convocation ceremony, please click here http://www.kipprenaissance.org/about/about-kipp-renaissance-high-school/convocation .
the non-profit’s revolving loan fund, shared micro loans, launched in early february 2010.
testimonial: “the seno accelerator has made all the difference in the world.
please send a resume and cover letter with two (or more) professional references totmonaghan@buildnownola.com.posted by gnof | 28 march 2011 arrives in new orleans to assist local shelters in finding homes for homeless pets!
information and applications can be downloaded from our website http://www.projecthomeagain.net or can be requested by mail from our office at 504-529-3522.
seno’s mission is to systematically cultivate bold and coordinated solutions to our city’s most pressing social challenges and to help social entrepreneurs who tackle these high-priority challenges take their ideas from vision to reality.
133 for additional information.
• perform other activities as requested by president or chief financial officer.
when: tuesday, march 22, 2011 where: mahalia jackson theatre
it should be mailed to polly campbell, st. bernard community foundation neighborhood initiatives, 4212 florida ave., meraux, la 70075 or hand-delivered.
for more information, call (504) 525-2121 or e-mail lwhite@globalgreen.org.
• possess initiative and the ability to work both independently and collaboratively.
kingsley house historic gymnasium (circa 1832) 1600 constance street new orleans, la 70130 program will begin promptly at noon.
we encourage early applications and may begin the interview process at any time.
proven ability to manage a diverse and professional staff.
educational outreach.
see what’s new on the cwppra web site!
the lighthouse for the blind serves people who are blind  or visually impaired with services, employment, and job placement.
- researching and applying for local, state, and  federal funding opportunities; managing programs for which funding is received - tracking budgets and working with bookkeeper to ensure information  entered into quickbooks is accurate and complete - managing build
the students will be mentored on building a resume, as well as a personal website to showcase their resume and portfolio.
http://www.literacygno.orgposted by mutuellegurk | 21 october 2010 hello, nice forum !
-mentor college intern -participate in weekly rethink club reflection/planning meetings.
* develop and grow our individual donor base; manage annual giving campaign; cultivate major gifts.
learn more for a dynamic, meaningful learning experience, the national conference on volunteering and service offers multiple types of sessions.
for questions or to reserve your space and pay at the door, email info@thefundingseed.com.posted by shelley stocker | 25 july 2011
a separate q&a with media will be held following the forum.
eligibility: those eligible for inclusion in the notebook are those community based organizations that currently provide direct or indirect services to public schools and their students and families.
edible schoolyard new orleans (esy nola) founded in 2006, esy nola changes the way kids eat, learn, and live at (5) firstline public charter schools in new orleans.
yet the biggest determinant of the resources we will have to tackle the challenges of the next decade occurs over the next three weeks: the decennial u.s. census.
ms. young  can be contacted at 504.658.7806 orjypontin@nola.gov. deadline 5/31/2011 posted by clifford walls | 21 april 2011 east lansing, mi – 2,350 miles.
the city will hold a public hearing to receive public comment on the consolidated plan, 2011 action plan and to solicit public input for the 2012 action plan, the city’s housing and community development plan.
the nonprofit capacity building program is specifically designed to dramatically impact local nonprofits that are promoting economic recovery and putting families on the pathway to self-sufficiency.
i have an mba who helps develop and explain financial models to me [accelerator consultant], my own accountant [pro bono professional], the head of a marketing firm who designed my website [accelerator consultant], a legal person [pro bono professional], and an executive mentor
this fun, hands-on workshop covers: * choosing what kind of event is best for you * working with volunteers * identifying event sponsors * and much more!
the world’s largest conference on volunteering and service new orleans, june 6-8, 2011 early bird registration rates are available until friday, april 29.
discuss concerns before plans are finalized.
qualifications education: undergraduate degree preferred.
after 6 hours of continuous googleing, at last i got it in your site.
general admission begins at 8 p.m., and the $20 ticket includes entry to the event and the buffet.
come learn about and support the rethink architecture committee at a benefit sponsored by the american institute of architects!
to be held at: tulane university new orleans, la sponsored by:
pass holders will finish the day with a fun new orleans on tap t-shirt which will also be for sale.
join us from 2:00-5:00 for set up, or contact melisa jones at 504-266-2415 for more chairish volunteer opportunities.
this event is free and all are welcome
http://www.gnof.org is very intersting… nice to meet you.posted by gnof | 12 october 2010 architects | engineers | realtors | builders | attorneys | consultants | government | academics innovative and unique opportunity to examine best practices •
persons requiring special assistance or accommodations, please contact donna pearson at 504.658.4347.posted by megan mclain | 10 august 2011
all applicants must describe how they will place 20% of their volunteers in assignments that enhance organizational capacity in the community, such as pro bono planning support, recruiting and coordinating community volunteers, or assisting with resource development.
you will also commit to attending convocation at kipp renaissance on november 5, 2011 where your mentee will receive a critical piece of his or her graduation regalia.
you will be able to cut and paste information into the fields, but the survey doesn’t allow for saving and returning to the process.
karim belhadjali and michele deshotels of the office of coastal protection and restoration will discuss the 2012 updates to “louisiana’s comprehensive master plan for a sustainable coast,” focusing on how this work will be founded on sound, science-based decisions, address climate change impacts, and enable coastal communities to prepare for worst-case scenarios.
©2009 greater new orleans foundation | 1055 st. charles ave, ste 100 | new orleans, la 70130 |
new orleans staples like jambalaya and zapp’s chips will be offered as well as traditional festival fare like hamburgers and hotdogs.
representatives from local partner, fidelity homestead savings bank, will discuss the financing options available to all homeowners or residential rental property owners in new orleans.
i was accepted into the program at just the right time and am incredibly grateful.
the intern will work a 40-hour week with many of the assessments being  performed on evenings and weekends.
click here for the guide to participation in the city council 2012 budget hearings.
for more information on this and past events, please contact vincent fedeli at our green building resource center:vfedeli@globalgreen.org, and see our website here:http://globalgreen.org/bibg/calendar/. visit global green’s blog to find out what build it back green is up tohttp://globalgreen.org/blogs/posted by heidi jensen | 12 june 2010 green- it-yourself series: june 29th summer is officially here and we know ya’ll are sweatin’ it out in the big easy.
see the work here.posted by gnof | 27 april 2011
major sponsorships are available.
pax is currently seeking host families who would be interested in participating in this remarkable cultural exchange program and helping these students achieve their dreams.
we offer a competitive compensation package, including a salary 10-15% above the local district scale, an opportunity to earn an annual performance bonus, and comprehensive health benefits.
the new orleans children and youth planning board is in the process of collecting significant data on programs that focus on both prevention and intervention.
pursue avenues to engage/educate community outreach events: seek out and schedule events such as markets, festivals, community events, etc., workshops and panels: research and schedule workshops and panels for the general public, coordinate with vistas on workshop announcements and advertising vendor list: research and maintain vendor list global green house: give tours, schedule docents and other staff to give tours, draft policies and procedures for house, train new docents media outreach:
cash or credit accepted.
leading educators is an equal opportunity employer and will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, or natural origin.
we are seeking your views on funding in areas such as housing, community/economic development, youth, senior citizens, homeless and other programs.
if you would like to help by providing a breakfast casserole, muffins or fresh fruit, please let polly campbell (info below) know.
·the essentials for operating your art as a small, independently run business, including employment, contracts, negotiation, decision-making, budgeting and cash flow ·strategies for funding your work and revenue-generating, including improving your fundraising materials; working in partnership with venues, donors and funders, building a base of individual contributors; and knowing the real cost of your work so you can communicate it to funders, presenters and other partners ·how to consider promoting your work as an integral, natural part of the creativeprocess ·the best practices for artist websites, blogs, social media and communications ·how to identify and reach new audiences for your work the creative alliance and moving stories believe that this program presents an opportunity for louisiana artists to learn new methods in improving their professional careers in the arts.
they have selected 10 programs that are eligible to receive gifts and the five winners will be determined by the number of online votes cast for each program.
in support of yes!, the maple street book shop will host a book signing with local author, cornell landry for goodnight nola and one dat, two dat, are you a who dat?
to do this,  the foundation is building a staff of passionate and creative people to join  their mission.
jane’s walk helps knit people together into a strong and resourceful community, instilling belonging and encouraging civic leadership.
thanks to the generous support of baptist community ministries, we are able to offer this training at no cost to programs.
and its adult learners.posted by sabrina short | 5 august 2011 you and a youth from your community are invited to an educational summit hosted by the 2012 elca youth gathering practice justice team to discuss how we can improve education and literacy in the greater new orleans community through service and social justice.
$875/mo includes water and alarm monitoring.
shared conference room, kitchenette, and restroom.
train and supervise intake staff on best practices and internal protocols for handling client inquiries.
so, she just went ahead and changed everything up to fit yrno’s situation.
it is the mission of gulf coast housing partnership (gchp) to revitalize the gulf coast through transformative development.
registration form the workshops are supported by the dauphin island sea lab and noaa coastal services center in support of the gulf of mexico alliance.
chairish the children will be held at the louisiana children’s museum on august 27th, from 7:00-11:00.
toolkits will be given to 10 organizations ready to get started.
please join us at whole foods in support of yes!
sessions are open to all, including, seniors and students with disabilites.
the city through the office of community development must submit the action plan to the u.s. department of housing & urban development (hud).
a year-long, paid residency in a public, district or charter school •
last january, the rethinkers looked at the overgrown lot outside our new office and came up with a vision for a community garden.
attend trainings on green building technologies and sustainable design.
other responsibilities • maintains the development department’s filing and record-keeping systems • orders and maintains departmental supplies • leads engaging facility tours for established and prospective donors; students • processes funds from the lighthouse auxiliary committee and generates membership mailings • carries out some light lifting (20-25 lbs) for special event setup and the handling of campaign materials.
informed subscribers make better management choices and save time and money for their mission.
for more information on this and past events, please contact vincent fedeli at our green building resource center: vfedeli@globalgreen.org, and see our website here: http://globalgreen.org/bibg/calendar/. visit global green’s blog to find out what build it back green is up tohttp://globalgreen.org/blogs/ pause for dinner with the louisiana spca.
- researching and applying for local, state, and federal funding opportunities; managing programs for which funding is received - tracking budgets and working with bookkeeper to ensure information entered into quickbooks is accurate and complete - managing build
canada has been nationally recognized for his revolutionary work with at-risk youth and families and as a passionate advocate for education reform.
demonstrated leadership potential •
the tenant will be responsible for paying for their utilities and janitorial.
the course will be held at the preservation resource center at 923 tchoupitoulas street.
click the link to access the application, and return via email or fax asap!
volunteers will speak with the attendees about the services that bibg provides (energy consults and green building advice) as well as answer any questions they may have about global green usa.
to register contact: jennifer roberts program director bayou land rc&d 985-373-0377 info@bayoulandrcd.org i actually get exactly where your coming from, and i positively adore the write-up.
deliver a comprehensive, sequential, balanced, regularly scheduled, standards-based theatrical program (skills, concepts and understandings) • plan lessons and overall schemes of work, developing knowledge of materials and repertoire for students at different stages of development • establish and maintain standards of pupil behavior to provide an orderly, productive environment during practice, group rehearsals and performances •
stair depends on support from the community to provide this service at no cost to the students.
strengthening civil society.
macy’s is having another charity day on saturday october 17th at both lakeside and the esplande macy’s.
absolutely no phone calls.
for registration, hotel reservations and more information, visithttp://www.greenlegalmatters.com a shared initiative, inc. will host its second annual asii’s
collecting fees and payments online •
all jane’s walk tours are given and taken for free.
• basic computer skills including email, databases, excel, and google.
please rsvp to: 504-523-6221 ext.
“as a pet owner, i know the love that animals bring into our lives  and homes,” said country music legend and tour for life 2011  spokesperson, wynonna judd.
to do this, the foundation is building a staff of passionate and creative people to join their mission.
works approximately 6-8 hours/week per social entrepreneur client • reports monthly to executive director on “milestone activity plan” deliverables • attends initial program kick-off meeting • attends group executive consultant meetings general qualifications: • focused on results, impact, and deliverables • ability to analyze, synthesize and prioritize information • ability to listen and work collaboratively with individuals of diverse perspectives • business and strategic planning experience •
the national conference on volunteering and service will be in new orleans june 6 – 8, 2011.
youth rebuilding new orleans: yrno is a not-for-profit organization, started by youth and for youth, allows students to help with purchasing and rebuilding homes, repairing them using volunteer participation, and selling the properties to deserving teachers whom could otherwise not afford the homes.
self-nominations are accepted.
we’re pretty sure you know a hero or two, and now you can help the trust for public land and cox communications honor that person
applying for these funds does not restrict you from applying for a general gyaf grant.
followed by discussion of impacts to: communities, estuaries, and livelihoods.
the oyster houses where i normally get shells are all closed.
the fest is free and open to the public.posted by ashley chen | 22 august 2011 an elevator pitch competition with cash prizes and celebrity judges for people with ideas for social change.
responsibilities for this position include: financial sustainability (60%) communications (40%) qualifications: commitment to yep’s mission excellent writing skills excellent oral communication skills bachelors degree a minimum of 5 years professional experience a minimum of 3 years experience in fundraising or communications detail-oriented highly organized efficient self-motivated easy-going and flexible positive outlook salary: commensurate with experience.
for more information, please call 504.658.4900 to register, visit http://www.nola.gov/crime-summit saturday, september 17, 2011 10:00 am – 12:00 pm uno lakefront arena 6801 franklin avenue new orleans, la new orleans community activist awarded national fellowship gina womack, co-founder and executive director of friends and families of louisiana’s incarcerated children (fflic), has been named a 2011 alston bannerman fellow.
successful applicants will be notified by august 20.
hey a fax is a fax, right?
non-profit, faith-based and social service organizations are already partners in their community and have built relationships of trust with the people they serve.
the lighthouse for the blind serves people who are blind or visually impaired with services, employment, and job placement.
you’ll find out about their typical survival rates and the important link that they serve in the food chain.
[kay morrison, founder of the occasional wife] with a background in retail.
the 2012 action plan will be submitted to hud on november 15, 2011.
each participant, aged between 25 and 40, contributes $500, completely  tax-deductible, which sponsors then match dollar-for-dollar.
some of the skills that will be taught are:· ·financial planning basics, including choosing financial partners, best practices for savings and retirement planning, options for reducing debt and acquiring property.
lunch will be served.
got soul fundraiser on friday, october 15, 2010,
* workshop fee: $595.00 (including tuition, materials, certificate of completion, and continental breakfast) rebate of $50.00 per person is given for two or more registrants from the same organization.
pledge via google… http://www.google.com/relief/haitiearthquake/ more info: http://www.amnesty.org new orleans’ first annual latin jazz festival presented by casa borrega casa borrega, a soon-to-be mexican café and latin cultural center, will debut new orleans’ latin jazz fest on the 5th anniversary of hurricane katrina.
training will cover building science, house as a system (including hvac), weatherization methods, work safe practices, indoor air quality & occupant health.
you can help the children’s hospital, new orleans continue this important program!
adheres to all puentes policies and procedures.
* revenue (grant funding, capital, earned revenue, etc.) not to exceed $50,000.
i can’t travel far and am located in the garden district but am willing to make a reasonable effort to collect available shells.
we are seeking any amount of charitable sponsorship and if we need to, we will provide our business proposal for this much needed project and any other information that you would like to verify.
the new orleans saints announce the kick-off of the 2009 community quarterback award.
through meetings, presentations and networking, create interest among neighborhood organizations, community based groups, and individual residents in participating in the nola wise program.
it was very successful.
we hope if you’re able you will come support our cause and spread the word to family and friends.posted by heidi jensen | 4 august 2010 while out and about on august 7th, why not take a cool break from the crowds on julia street to experience the green side of white linen night – join us just around the corner for green squared – a sustainable, artistic event brought to you by global green usa and the green project.
“but we don’t want perfect to get in the way of doing good.”
(between euterpe & terpsichore)
please rsvp to hilairie schackai at hschackai@longuevue.com or call 504-293-4726.posted by julia | 1 february 2011
every participating restaurant is donating 20% of their dinner proceeds to the louisiana spca!
the organization advocates for energy efficiency, renewable energy, and affordable green homes and schools.
can you reach for your rolodexes and see if any of your partners, affiliates, or perhaps an underfunded program could use a fax and/or a copier?
march 2010 saturday, may 8th, 6 to 9 p.m. generations hall, 310 andrew higgins drive plan now to join us for this memorable evening of honoring public schools and students!
personality: relentlessly positive and upbeat; impeccably detail-oriented and organized; highly professional; trustworthy with confidential information; able to work productively with little or no supervision; dependable, articulate, mission-driven team player with a good sense of humor 7.
my accelerator consultant is tess monaghan, executive director of build now, and she has been great in giving me an extra set of hands while i am a one-person company.
even if they don’t have similar business plans, they have similar challenges.
this month, join area sales manager of siemens building technologies, richard burvant, to learn about siemens corporate sustainability goals and how building automation systems can help building owners and operators achieve sustainability goals.
the upcoming concert “from symphony to jazz to kids” on october 27, 2010 from 7 to 9 pm at the mahalia jackson theater will raise funds supporting the foundation’s work.
if we do not count every person who calls new orleans home by april 1 of this year, we lose over $3,000 per person.
this will not be a summit of false hope and unfulfilled promises.
if your organization is interested in participating by accepting a new trained board member, please visithttp://www.jlno.org for more details or send an email to info@jlno.org.posted by gnof | 4 march 2010 posted by esther shin | 3 february 2010 to ensure that all eligible organizations have an opportunity to participate in urban strategies’ (urban) nonprofit capacity building program (program) the request for qualifications (rfq) has been extended to february 12, 2010.
please submit resumes and cover letters to rachel lee, rachel@therethinkers.orgposted by gnof | 12 july 2011 1340 poydras street, 9th floor new orleans, la 70112 (504) 658-7033 application for amendment to new orleans 2030:
more algae production plants are coming online.
deadline for application is 05/19/2011.
the bulk of the job will entail performing energy efficiency  assessments on single-family homes.
“here comes summer” costume contest, too!
we accomplish this mission through project-based partnerships with non-profit, for-profit, and public sector organizations to whom we deliver industry-standard real estate development expertise.
learn philanthropy skills.
asii will host a patron party from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. and tickets are available for $50.
excellent benefits provided.
tutor training begins wednesday, september 16 through thursday, october 22 at locations around the greater new orleans area.
the grants are the community development block grant (cdbg), home investment partnership act (home), emergency shelter grant (esg), and housing opportunities for persons with aids (hopwa) programs.
cypb executive director survey the new orleans children and youth planning board is a statutorily created body, pursuant to city ordinance m.c.s., ord.
special knowledge:  excellent communication, interpersonal, organizational and writing skills.
that’s the distance that michigan state university graduates, alex poe and cliff walls, intend to travel this coming summer.
• highly organized, detail oriented, diplomatic and persistent.
in contrast to low-performing public schools that fail to focus on results, nocp utilizes an extended school day and year, a disciplined and nurturing school culture, and data-driven instruction to drive dramatic gains in student achievement.
registration required.
demonstrated ability to overcome obstacles and deal with ambiguity •
automation systems to achieve sustainability thursday, january 12th, 5:30 p.m. to 7 p.m.
registration fee includes: refreshments notebook with tabbed handouts grant writing for dummies textbook grand prize: first 20 paid registrants will be entered into a drawing for a netbook computer valued up to $450.
april 26th, 6pm-8pm for more information, contact laney white at lwhite@globalgreen.orgposted by gnof | 20 april 2011 this week, over a billion people will celebrate the 41st annual earth day, the largest secular civic event in the world.
finding good deals on the best meeting space •
green forum registration is $50, with discounted registration of $25 for non profits.
the new orleans recreation development foundation seeks a seasoned development professional to be the strategic leader, visionary, and key architect to drive all fundraising efforts, including major individual, corporate, and foundation support.
friendly, leashed, pets are welcome!
we recommend that you type your answers into the essay worksheet before submitting online, as the online application will not allow you to save your responses.
the ambassador corps allows individuals to help create a more sustainable new orleans through volunteer opportunities with global green usa.
nola tuesday, october 6 1:30 – 3:30 p.m.** st. charles avenue presbyterian church, 1545 state st., nola thursday, october 8 1:30 – 3:30 p.m.** faith cumberland presbyterian church, 3810 power blvd., metairie monday, october 12 1:30 – 3:30 p.m.** algiers united methodist church, 637 opelousas avenue, nola wednesday, october 14 1:30 – 3:30 p.m.** st. charles avenue presbyterian church, 1545 state st., nola thursday, october 22 1:30 – 3:30 p.m**.
poe and walls seek  to raise at least $2,350 for the friends of the fishermen fund, representing  one dollar for each mile paddled.
seno 2011 accelerator fellow experiences: fellow john burns // jack & jake’s: jack and jake’s is one of the first in the u.s. to establish a local food hub (with a network of over 200 local farms and fishers within 65 miles of new orleans) where farm fresh products and seafood can be efficiently gathered and distributed to those who need access to affordable healthy food.
new leaders for new schools drives academic excellence in urban public schools by training and supporting exceptional educators to lead schools across the country.
we need you again – march 12 to plant 100 trees from meraux to arabi!
wise: worthwhile investments save energy thursday, november 10th, 5:30 pm to 8 pm aia new orleans center for design 1000 st charles ave., new orleans, la 70130 monthly sustainability events are free and open to the public.
a staff report and recommendations will be available to aid the discussion.
the early childhood & family learning foundation’s new mahalia jackson center in central city gives new orleans’ poorest children a leg up during the critical first five years of their life, when it is needed most.
complete position details availablehere or under program development in the resources section of our website.
come to this free global green workshop to ensure that your home is as safe and healthy as possible!
preference for degree in urban planning, public policy, building management, energy efficiency, environmental studies, architecture or related field; graduate degree and leed ap a plus.
in addition to the public meetings, the city planning commission will hold a public hearing(s) to approve, approve with modifications, or disapprove the proposed amendments.
a process to develop a new comprehensive zoning ordinance is underway.
individuals exhibiting leadership, dedication and commitment to improving their community are candidates for the program.
• manage the development of the psd customer  management and process database.
convened by points of light institute and the corporation for national and community service, the annual event provides attendees with an opportunity to learn, connect and be inspired through a wide range of exciting and informative plenary sessions, workshops, special events, service projects, exhibits, specialized corporate tracks and more.
posted by gnof | 22 march 2011 lano’s public policy institute april 6th and 7th, 2011 in baton rouge
unwavering commitment to realizing the venture and achieving the mission • ability to commit to the following: o availability to attend program launch and “graduation” event where accelerator participants present program deliverables and successes to a peer audience o responsiveness to seno program staff o commitment to fill out monthly 5- minute surveys on program deliverables o ability to receive feedback and the capacity to implement or act on suggestions and plans that both participant and consultant have agreed on o ability and capacity to follow through on the jointly developed and agreed-upon action steps, goals, and deliverables in the ten-month “milestone activity plan” o capacity to meet or correspond at least once/week with accelerator consultant o ability to commit to june 1, 2012 program start date selection criteria: the ideal candidate is a high-potential early-stage social entrepreneur who has needs in specific areas and is interested in external assistance to accelerate his/her venture.
contact us atlacoast@nwrccom.cr.usgs.gov spread the word tell your friends they can receive this free newsflash by subscribing at: http://www.lacoast.gov/news/newsletter.htm for more program information: subscribe to watermarks, the cwppra magazine, by contactinglacoast@nwrccom.cr.usgs.gov to view on-line issues visit http://www.lacoast.gov/watermarks
an adoption option & bake sale & raffle, sponsored by the la/spca will be held at clearview mall, located at 4436 veterans blvd., from 11:00-3:00.
to date, more than 30,000 families have been directly impacted by the oil spill, and it remains the largest in united states history.
we have about 6 of each, so please pass the word!
warm thanks to our good friends at whole foods market and atchafalaya restaurant for their very generous support.
sam is founder and president of the planned giving company, a full-service provider of planned giving marketing and consulting services to non-profit organizations nationwide, and co-founder of virtual giving, inc., a top provider of planned giving websites and other planned giving services.
esy nola is a signature program of firstline schools.
space is limited, but a second workshop time may be added if there is sufficient demand.
in addition to our general gyaf grant funding, applicants can also apply for a legacy tobacco control grant (ltcg) focused on community health.
contact reggie moore at (202) 341-7173 or via e-mail at rmoore@legacyforhealth.org with any questions regarding your ltcp proposal.
for a list of beers, information on ticket purchases, and more please visit http://www.neworleansontap.org.posted by gnof | 23 september 2011 fundraiser benefiting casa new orleans thursday, november 10, 2011 6:30pm patron party $100 7:30pm event $50 riverview room in jackson brewery cooking demonstration by chef drew dzejak of the grill room at windsor court hotel entertainment by gina brown and anutha level silent auction golf putting competition special discounts available until friday, october 28, 2011 for more information, contact casa new orleans at (504) 522-1962 or visit our website athttp://www.casaneworleans.org purchase tickets hereposted by laney white | 12 september 2011
restored shotgun double blocks from st. charles and lee circle.
when: thursday, october 21, 2010, 11:30 am – 1:15 pm ama members-only roundtable discussion 1:15 – 2:00 pm where: audubon tea room cost: $40 rsvp:
-connect with club participants’ families when necessary.
the prospect.2 student biennial showcases the results of these initiatives and continues our efforts to promote the creative work of new orleans’ budding young artists.
join us and see how kingsley house has made a positive footprint on southeast louisiana.
july 27, 6pm – 8pm global green’s build it back green program location: urban league conference room 2322 canal street, 1st floor, nola march of dimes 2010 chapter community grants application package.
2nd annual dog-a-roo sniff & social, sponsored by the la/spca will be held at zack’s frozen yogurt and smoothies, located at 1820 belle chasse hwy, ste. 101., from 3:00-6:00.
job title: executive director the executive director reports to the board of directors and is responsible for the achievement of its mission, goals, and objectives.
the pbs newhour, for example, can be seen at 9p on 12.2 (world), and if you missed john besh on 12.1 (wyes-hd), you’ll find it airing on 12.3 (create).
support the 2011 annual fundraiser freedom ride an original concert opera by dan shore to benefit longue vue house and gardens.
provides support for a planned gifts committee by preparing  the meeting space, taking meeting notes and producing minutes and other  documentation as needed 4.
to complete the survey, you will need general organizational information, including an approved jpeg logo.
when: sunday, august 28th (announcement at 11:30 am) where: new orleans healing center 2372 st. claude avenue corner of st. roch and st. claude what: a not-to-be missed announcement that will positively impact small business in new orleans an all-day healing center grand opening celebration with live music, food and fun.
in addition, the global green holy cross project visitor center in the lower ninth ward conducts tours.
contests, prizes, giveaways, and more!
one year ago, the data center and brookings embarked on an ambitious project-to comprehensively assess not only our recovery progress at the fifth anniversary of katrina, but whether or not we are bouncing back better than before.
8:00pm ashé cultural arts center 1712 oretha castle haley blvd.
we may follow up with you for clarification of your responses.
new orleans seniors will be showcasing different side show acts; there will physical activities, recognition of our seasoned seniors and musical performances by arthur johnson & a chosen few.
on thursday, june 9th, the youth empowerment project (yep) and delgado community college will host a grand opening of the new tulane tower learning center (ttlc) site.
posted by gnof | 26 april 2011 national conference on volunteering and service the world’s largest conference on volunteering and service new orleans, june 6-8, 2011 early bird registration rates are available until friday, april 29.
the idea village will be holding 4 information sessions at our offices.
recreation 3) beautification 4) human services
here is a link to the job post: http://www.idealist.org/view/internship/df6hk28nmpfp the internship comes with a small stipend — $1,300 for the january- august stretch, paid monthly.
available on our website: http://www.literacygno.org or on-site the day of the event.
the louisiana spca has invited you to join them for dinner, which will help raise money for the organization, when you come and dine-in (or carryout), semolina will donate 10% of the proceeds from your visit to the louisiana spca.
position summary the executive director of edible schoolyard nola is a highly visible and pioneering position at the forefront of the food education movement in new orleans and the region.
must have a parish address to receive a license, out of parish participants will receive rabies vaccine only, not tag or license.
marketing your programs and services to targeted audiences finding and energizing volunteers.
-commitment to social change and youth leadership -willingness to ask for help when needed and be communicative about personal needs -access to reliable transportation.
come to this free global green usa workshop to arm yourself with the knowledge you need to make your home as comfortable, safe, and efficient as possible.
if you have any questions please feel free to email us at nola@onebrick.org about one brick headquartered in san francisco, california, one brick is a 501(c)3 non-profit organization that brings volunteers together to support other local non-profits by adopting an innovative twist to the volunteer experience: we create a friendly and social atmosphere around volunteering, and after each volunteer event — which typically lasts only 3 to 4 hours — we invite volunteers to gather at a local restaurant or café where they can get to know one another in a relaxed social setting.
focus foundation and corporate giving for the state of louisiana 5.
anyone who wants to learn about the exciting world of grantwriting!
essential personal characteristics for job: while rethink respects individual schedules, this is not a job for a clock-watcher.
wise: a new financing opportunity for a healthy and efficient home wednesday, august 24th, 5:30 pm to 7:30 pm global green usa’s green building resource center 841 carondelet street, new orleans, la 70130 free and open to the public.
camp directors provide daily supervision of camp activities and operations in each community, while instructors and americorps members promote and facilitate service-learning and youth leadership activities for youth attending the camps.
service description : global green usa’s build it back green (bibg) program is a free service offered to help new orleanians rebuild their homes in a more energy efficient and healthy way, as well as reduce their monthly utility costs.
dance, drink, & celebrate cinco de mayo @ new orleans’ best new tapas restaurant!
“gina womack exemplifies the kind of leadership that the alston bannerman fellowship was created to reward,” said madeleine adamson, coordinator of the program.
new orleans’ cultural heritage is that much richer because of the latin influence.
experience with quickbooks or similar accounting software required.
for more information about this position or to apply online: http://www.firstlineschools.org/careers friday, october 14th, 6-9pm kingsley house will host its second annual “get fired up for kingsley house with kermit ruffins” on october 14 from 6-9pm in our courtyard.
we are seeking any information on how our organization can get started with providing wildlife habitats to charities and/or organizations that are already on the ground volunteering with the bp oil spill cleanup efforts?
learn to create events that raise money for your non-profit!
exceptional quantitative skills • strong written and interpersonal communication skills •
please rsvp: jessica@theneworleansinstitute.orgposted by gnof | 8 april 2010
time commitment this is a contract position for june 15 — july 26, 2011.
we will provide a platform for you to share your ideas, challenges, and potential next steps.
by participating in the golden tassel gala, you will be taking a stake in the future of our young people, preparing them to live, work, and succeed in our metropolitan community.
please bring: a shovel & a pair of gloves.
over the next few weeks, the rsd wants to hear from parents and families who have utilized the resource centers to ensure that the centers are meeting their needs.
new orleans college prep (nocp) is a public, open enrollment, charter school for underserved children from across orleans parish.
indeed, the last time we had this convening, social entrepreneurs in our network walked away with resources to start new programs and lifelong mentors.
for any questions contact global green usa at 504-525-2121 or email john dorsey atjdorsey@globalgreen.orgposted by anita calagna | 3 june 2010 how can we be in the nonprofit spotlight?posted by martha | 3 june 2010 anita, please call martha landrum at gnof at (504) 598-1290.posted by gnof | 2 june 2010 with all eyes on the disaster in the gulf, we must not lose sight of a longer-running tragedy affecting us all, every day: the unconscionable number of new orleanians who are undereducated and unemployable.
the emphasis of the internship will be on events planning and nonprofit management.
to apply: qualified and interested applicants must submit all of the following to be considered for this position:cover letter, resume and 1-2 page writing sample.
i wonder what is the google’s issue that doesn’t rank this kind of informative web sites closer to the top.
jackie dadakis of clean energy solutions and  terri miller and penny sandras of asi federal credit union will be on hand to  discuss tax incentives, rebate programs, and green loans that can help you  invest in energy and money-saving home improvements.
implement best practices in garnering community support.
the capacity building program is specifically designed to strengthen the ability of participating nonprofits to connect harmony oaks (formerly c.j. peete) and central city residents to services, such as education and training, and to increase overall local nonprofit capacity to deliver higher-quality, more effective programs to help families at harmony oaks and in central city work toward self-sufficiency.
who: hundreds of volunteers from the community visuals:
in partnership with purina one®, tour for life is the world’s largest cooperative national adoption initiative aimed at reinforcing the importance and advantages of shelter pet adoptions and familiarizing communities with their local shelter.
for more information, or to register either as a particpant or a nonprofit partner, please go tohttp://www.jlno.org/getonboard, or email getonboard@jlno.org with any additional questions regarding this exciting and worthwhile training opportunity.posted by gnof | 19 november 2010
senior fest is open to the public but tickets are required for entry.
the experience is limited to 24 artists from louisiana.
seeking to exceed last year’s total of $27,500 exciting additions have been made.
accurately processes and  appropriately acknowledges online and conventional planned gifts •  assists in producing materials, articles and other pieces in support of the  program •
visit http://www.legacyforhealth.org for more information about legacy.posted by laney white | 17 november 2011 is your house leaving you with a chill and high utility bills?
for more information or to register for the training, contact elizabeth artigues at 504.899.0820 orelizabeth@scapc.org or visit http://www.stairnola.org .
thursday, april 21 8pm et – expedition blue  planet with alexandra cousteau 9pm et – sola: louisiana water  stories with filmmaker jon bowermaster friday, april 22 8pm et – burning ice with  filmmaker david buckland link: http://www.biglive.com/snagfilms note: the link won’t be live until right before the event.
improve your personal performance, compare the views of leading nonprofit thinkers and respond to emerging trends with page to practice.
once a year, the museum opens its big blue doors for this festive fundraiser where you can be a kid again.
these grants are funded through the legacy® foundation based in washington, dc.
tess runs a housing nonprofit herself, and she already had something very similar for build now.
work with the pr consultant to facilitate a web-based viral marketing effort to reach the residential, non-profit, and small commercial sectors, utilizing tools that include social media, blogs, etc. • contribute to the ggusa and/or nola wise web site, including maintaining updated content, links to partner organizations, oversight of customer/partner online database, and volunteer opportunities within the organization.
this month’s workshop will address how to green your home by performing seasonal maintenance.
his dogged pursuit of facts reveals that some of the same flawed methods responsible for levee failure during hurricane katrina are being used to rebuild the system expected to protect the “new” new orleans from future peril.
we will be awarding 5 grants up to $2,500 each for youth-led, adult supported projects that specifically address tobacco use in new orleans.
as part of the staff’s commitment to get 100% of their students to and through college, kipp renaissance high school is searching for african-american college graduates in the new orleans area who are willing to become mentors for our students on their journey to college.
• ability to meet deadlines and manage multiple tasks in an entrepreneurial environment.
registration fee is $35.00.
5-7pm, thursday, december 15th eiffel society, 2040 saint charles ave agenda: 5:00pm:
analyzing event data against success metrics join parks & parkways commission and st. bernard community foundation neighborhood initiatives saturday, february 12 8:00 am please meet at christian fellowship church for a brief planting demonstration and assignments: 5816 e. judge perez dr. volunteers will work along judge perez drive from colonial blvd in violet to debouchel blvd in meraux.
global green usa is an equal opportunity employer.posted by julia | 4 january 2011 composting and soil building is an are integral parts of any sustainable home vegetable garden.
applicants must have experience operating more than one high-quality charter school.
about friends of the fishermen: the friends of the fishermen fund was  started as a way to help the fishermen who were affected by the deepwater  horizon oil spill, more commonly known as the bp oil spill of 2010.
in 2011, the department plans to use up to $25,000,000 for this competition, and estimates making between 8 and 15 awards (the department is not bound by any estimates).
laugh, cry and give us your thoughts as we bring into the world a new performance piece designed to inspire people of all ages to pursue their dreams.
additionally, please contact charlotte d’ooge at cdooge@jjpl.org or (504) 522-5437 to confirm your ticket purchase, reserve your seat, and to request a vegetarian meal.
posted by terri j. brown | 4 may 2011 position location: new orleans, la reports to: director of development primary function:
group training sessions: open to nonprofit organizations currently providing or planning to provide central city residents in the next twelve months with services that support economic sustainability for families.
contact chris bowers at 504-293-4719 orcbowers@longuevue.com for information or to purchase student tickets.posted by gnof | 5 october 2011 interpreting for social justice with roberto tijerina intensive training on simultaneous and consecutive interpretation skills to serve the immigrant and refugee community.
• communicate with neighborhood associations on the status  of client referrals, and manage the process for scheduling follow up with  interested clients.
algae is renewable, does not affect the food channel and consumes co2.
by keeping our registration fee low, we’re helping nonprofits access the knowledge and resources they need to succeed in difficult times.
candidate should have a track record of working to reconcile racial divides and a track record of advocating for latino and other ethnic communities.
hope you can come out and help jefferson parish public school students soar!posted by driequedrence | 1 september 2010 http://verifiedfile.com/images/toddcowle.gif giving is receiving.
invitation to participate urban strategies was recently awarded a $1 million grant from the u.s. department of health and human services strengthening communities fund.
in the us, more children die of childhood cancer than any other disease.
a team player who is  willing to pitch in and help with everything from picking up trash on job sites  to fundraising efforts - be fluent with microsoft word, excel, and power  point, and have a working knowledge of quickbooks - be self-motivated, a  quick thinker, and a creative, adept problem-solver start date:
applications can be found athttp://cano-la.org.
dogs must be on leashes and cats must be in carriers or on leashes.
refreshments will be provided.
craft a cover letter explaining your interest in this position, and submit letter and resume tojobs@leadingeducators.org with “regional program director – kansas city” in the subject line.
the successful candidate will perform such other tasks as may be required for the effective operation of the department upon request by his/her supervisor.
train and supervise  intake staff on best practices and internal protocols for handling client  inquiries.
for more information on this and past events, please see the global green usa website:http://globalgreen.org/bibg/calendar/ or contact heidi jensen at our green building resource center:hjensen@globalgreen.orgposted by devin johnson | 17 august 2011 information on the committee and business meetings of the orleans parish school board is available through the “opsbrief,” regular email alerts provided by the eastbank collaborative of charter schools, made possible by a community impact 2010 grant from the greater new orleans foundation.
this grant competition will build on the successes of the rsvp programs by placing a priority on projects that enable volunteers to: • assist individuals, including frail seniors and veterans of recent conflicts, with independent living support, including respite for family or informal caregivers; • assist children academically so they will success in school; and • assist individuals, including frail seniors and other vulnerable populations, with home energy efficiency, such as weatherization and energy audits.
qualifications the summer intern should have a diverse set of skills including a basic understanding of home construction, weatherization and energy-efficiency concepts, gis mapping and spreadsheets, as well as the ability to quickly gain an understanding of and speak about the organization’s homeowner selection process.
the development assistant will be  responsible for accurately recording and tracking donations made to the  campaigns and for preparing any reports necessary.
since its start in 2007, jane’s walk has happened in cities across north america, and is growing internationally.
as part of the mentoring commitment, you will be available via phone, email, or other means of communication to offer support to your mentee.
accounting assistant supervisor: chief financial officer date: january 2011
please contact kim clay at 504-816-4205 for additional informationposted by robert rothman | 24 september 2010 i would like to invite you to a funny bones improv fundraiser next thursday september 30th from 5-8 pm.
for participating restaurants and more information, please visit http://www.la-spca.org.posted by heidi jensen | 11 june 2010 global green usa’s new orleans office is looking for an oil spill response intern.
networking, refreshments 5:30pm:
expert presenters from the nonprofit, corporate and government sectors will engage participants in hands-on sessions to explore topics relevant to volunteerism and service.
our goal is to convene all those with great ideas for making new orleans an amazing city and to connect you to potential mentors, supporters, funders, partners, experts, and collaborators.
and why these initiatives can achieve far greater impact than the isolated efforts of single organizations.
develop internal systems designed to improve program efficiencies.
testimonial: “i couldn’t have done it without seno.
eeo/aaposted by gnof | 29 april 2011 saturday, may 14th city park 10 am – 5 pm my part – save our gulf will be selling fine art prints in an effort to help clean up the gulf.
please also include your preferred method of contact in the below comment field.
avondale playground 709 jame blvd (avondale) only $15 (cash only) for a dog or cat rabies vaccination, tag and license.
accelerator program to another social entrepreneur.
leadership coach – kansas city the leadership coach undertakes direct coaching of participants in the leading educators fellowship, school consultation and relationship development, and continued program development.
supervisory responsibilities: none 5.
sponsored by: dcsno location: 3201 s. carrollton ave. registration: $399.00 registration information/contact: india brown 504-482-2080 ext.
text and map amendments must be consistent with the overall policy intent of the master plan.
st. charles avenue presbyterian church, 1545 state st., nola ** observation to follow.
the work of a small non-profit; pitching in wherever necessary qualifications: -bachelor’s degree (required)
registration $35 per person.
special grant program this year, we are offering two grant award opportunities.
find out how to check your ductwork, weatherstrip your windows, adjust your water heater, and perform other improvements that require minimal effort but generate significant returns!
database and records management • impeccably maintains all  donation records in raiser’s edge database • produces  acknowledgement and solicitation letters • generates reports from  raiser’s edge and excel • prompts the director of development  regarding follow-up activities 7.
make our city a better place.
to make a donation or reserve a ticket, contact jane@therethinkers.orgposted by lori haeuser | 16 april 2010 may 22nd
106 orcokechukwu@operationreach.org.posted by lynn | 27 october 2009
because of the gulf coast’s  keen understanding of the importance of volunteering and service to strengthen  community bonds and take sustained action, the region’s largest city was  not just the natural choice to host the 2011 gathering—it was the only  choice.
the program will officially begin june 1, 2012.
the louisiana children’s museum is looking for volunteers for the 13th annual chairish the children auction!
light refreshments at 5:30pm, panel begins at 6pm.
please visit http://www.jeffersondollarsforscholars.org for more information.
for more information and to rsvp, contact mallory falk 412.708.7392 //
proficiency in wordpress required.
127 or via email:  gjackson@kingsleyhouse.org posted by gnof | 25 april 2011 partnership for youth development chief development officer search the new orleans recreation development foundation is a non-profit  organization that financially supports the budget of thenew orleans recreation  development commission, which aims to provide access to quality recreational  opportunities for all citizens of new orleans, regardless of age.
for three days, 12,000 people were sent out to serve the needs of the people in new orleans.
posted by heidi jensen | 6 may 2011 new orleans program assistant global green usa seeks a committed and energetic person to join our new  orleans office in the nola wise energy efficiency financing program.
join us, as we celebrate our healing, our fortitude and our resolve for a better future for new orleans!
_____________________________________________ program benefits : childcare assistance if eligible , choice of education award or end of service stipend , health coverage, relocation allowance, stipend, training .
grant and contract writing, management, monitoring, and reporting.
for more information on this and past events, please see our website here: http://globalgreen.org/bibg/calendar/ or contact heidi jensen at our green building resource center:hjensen@globalgreen.orgposted by gnof | 19 october 2011 saturday, october 22 3pm – 6pm art egg studios 1001 south broad street we’re having a party to celebrate the brand new rethink garden!
-has network of connections in new orleans -excellent self-care -willing to develop a commitment to the community of rethink staff, who believe they must model the values of community they teach the rethinkers among themselves.
applicants should submit letters of intent by friday, november 20, 2009, and the complete proposal is due friday, december 11, 2009.
regularly responds to email and phone messages.
the two hour workshop will be held on saturday, october 30 on dillard’s campus.
strong critical thinking and creative problem solving skills • project management experience • organized, with the ability to prioritize, multi-task and manage time wisely •
in fiscal 2009, rsvp volunteers mentored more than 103,000 children and youth, provided a range of independent living services for more than 600,000 frail seniors, and recruited and coordinated nearly 44,000 community volunteers.
including boards, commissions, and task forces.
wednesday, august 10, 4:00 – 6:30 p.m. first unitarian universalist church of new orleans 5212 s. claiborne ave. between jefferson & soniat registration $35 per person.
research and identify potential funding sources 3.
college degree and/or strong  background in database management preferred.
learn how to make your home more energy efficient!
draft written materials to initiate contacts with radio, print, and tv media; create a media notebook documenting tv, radio, and newspaper coverage; follow up on potential media opportunities; case studies: document and develop case studies of early adopters; marketing materials:
the new orleans recreation development foundation seeks a seasoned  development professional to be the strategic leader, visionary, and key  architect to drive all fundraising efforts, including major individual,  corporate, and foundation support.
we begin with an organizational assessment, which includes a financial, operational, and programmatic review •
program details: • seno will select 13-15 high-potential social entrepreneur fellows who have innovative solutions to high-priority problems in new orleans •
the seno social venture accelerator was designed in partnership with globally recognized social entrepreneurship nonprofit echoing green.
in collaboration with the board of directors, represents the organization on policy positions at local, state and federal level.
refreshments served at 5:30pm, discussion begins at 6pm. wednesday, september 22nd 5:30pm to 7:30pm green building resource center 841 carondelet street new orleans, la 70130 global green events are free and open to the public.
- jane jacobs, writer & urban visionary jane’s walk is a series of free neighborhood walking tours that help put people in touch with their environment and with each other, by bridging social and geographic gaps and creating a space for cities to discover themselves.
position reports to the program manager of nola  wise.
the fax machines are little $80 numbers that we buy from office depot.
we are offering the training to non-profits at a rate of $150 per person and $250 for contractors.
in october, two new resources for citizens were introduced and offer new ways to understand and get involved in new orleans city government.
pause 4 dinner with the louisiana spca.
for information call (504) 894-6626 harmony oaks community center 2514 washington ave.
• professional experience in  nonprofit, public agency, or construction contractor environment.
for buildings owners and operators, sustainability may be motivated by several factors such as environmental stewardship, the desire for green building certification, or lower operating costs.
154.posted by heidi jensen | 20 may 2010 global green usa is proud to partner with the aia, new orleans chapter and the usgbc-louisiana chapter for our monthly panel series on issues of sustainability in the built environment.
127 or via email: gjackson@kingsleyhouse.org chief development officer search the new orleans recreation development foundation is a non-profit organization that financially supports the budget of thenew orleans recreation development commission, which aims to provide access to quality recreational opportunities for all citizens of new orleans, regardless of age.
wednesday, october 21, 2009, marks the date of family service of greater new orleans’ 36th ten outstanding persons gala.
admission is free!posted by laney white | 7 december 2011
this summer, in addition to completing another 30 homes,  the organization will be working on three distinct efforts: the green home  sustainability program, a grassroots anti-blight project, and homeowner  selection.
technical experts will use materials and props to guide you through the weatherization process.
families must be able to “trade-in” their damaged property in exchange for a new home.
l; and a digital sound installation created by prospect.2 artist dan tague and students from lusher charter school.
senior fest is a mega-event for new orleans area older adults.
used to power modern websites, web applications, eblast generators, and more, understanding how to structure content to fit into a content management system is a skill fundamental to many jobs today.
pick a couple of the areas below that you are interested in and find out what is going on.
there is also a ticket to enter for a chance to win a $500 macy’s gift card.
to register and for more information, visit our website: http://www.centerforleadershipinnovation.orgposted by gnof | 27 july 2011 save the date the louisiana spca 2011 7th patron party, a motown tribute saturday, november 5, 2011 8:30pm
and to create a baseline that helps answer the question, “where do we go from here?”
discounted tickets for food and beer purchases are available at the bulldog and lager’s through friday september 30.
score hands-on experience.
6:30- 8:30pm location: ashe cultural arts center, 1712 oretha castle haley blvd, new orleans, louisiana 70113 rsvp:
but we will need your guidance and help getting the ball rolling.
the creative capital workshop takes artists on a two and one-half day retreat led by nationally renowned arts professionals.
thank you for your support.posted by gnof | 16 may 2011 friday, june 3rd 6:30 – 9:00 pm kingsley house – 1600 constance st., new orleans, la 70130 honorary chair: wendell pierce of the hbo series treme tickets $50 person / $75 vip (vip includes an additional hour of music, food and libations from 5:30 to 6:30pm).
give if you are ready to make a real difference.
pax welcomes host families of all kinds who would like to share their heart, home and culture with a young person from germany, korea, sweden, china, france, mexico or any one of our international students.
am north shore animal league america’s tour for life 2011 – a  groundbreaking national tour geared to promoting shelter pet adoptions –  will arrive in new orleans to partner with the louisiana spca for a special  mobile adoption event at clearview mall on saturday, april 2 beginning at 11am.
neither the faxes nor the copiers would be appropriate for a big fancy non-profit that you guys work for.
chef john besh will go into production this spring on his second national cooking series, as we have been able to raise the funding to begin work.
walls and poe are no strangers to adventure.
i’m interested in becoming a mentor.
over the academic year, students designate an issue of concern, such as poor food, inadequate facilities or school security, and develop a platform for change.
eric shaw, foundation for louisiana, vp of policy and programs * mc: matt candler, 4.0 schools, ceo audience participation audience members will play a key role in this competition.
currently in its 3rd year of operation, nocp serves a population of 440 students– 300 students in grade 6-8 and 140 students in grades k-2.
boost your advocacy capacity •
global green events are free and open to the public.
use the techniques presented in this course and watch students’ writing skills transform.
it is time for new orleans to reclaim its greatness as a city of enlightenment, innovation, research and education.
can i get a guided, personal tour?
ensures that the agency has the necessary staffing to support its goals, objectives and activities.
snagfilms, in partnership with biglive.com, will feature live screenings and filmmaker q&a onthursday, april 21 and friday, april 22 .
all proceeds will go towards the greater new orleans  gulf coast oil spill fund.
for the past year, brothers paul and michael have been testing samples of seafood and sediment located in oil-ravaged louisiana.
“i’m proud to participate in tour for life and want to encourage americans across the country who are considering adding a pet to their families to visit their local shelter or stop by one of our events, and rescue a homeless pet.”
to ensure your inclusion please complete the survey (link below)
the salary is competitive and commensurate with experience and yep offers excellent benefits.
there is no charge for the luncheon but guests will be asked to make a donation to kingsley house during the program.
for this month’s panel discussion, hosted by the usgbc, la chapter – thomas rush, director of business development at gno inc., will be on hand to discuss gno inc.’s green n.o. initiative.
attend trainings on green building technologies and sustainable  design.
please visit our website to learn more about the 2011 accelerator fellows.
• administer 1099 data collection and process all year end 1099 reports and forms.
recycling your yard and kitchen waste is a critical step in reducing the volume of individual household waste and landfill size – as well as enriching your soil with beneficial microorganisms, insects, worms, and organic material.
excellent oral and written communication skills in english and spanish.
for more information, please visit http://www.therethinkers.com or contact mallory:mallory@therethinkers.org // (504) 521-7464posted by nora ellertsen | 29 november 2011
the deadline for applications is 5 p.m. eastern daylight time, april 6, 2010.
open year-round, these centers will provide services, such as student enrollment information, student record retrieval, and up-to-date data on all public schools in the city to help parents make informed decisions when seeking the best schools for their children.
the draft action report is available for your comments.
do you need volunteers or office space?
learn about the creative forces league games on sunday, may 14th, 2011, the first event of its kind, webcast live from dillard university to an international audience of young people and adults.
tony will explain how focusing on delivering happiness to customers and employees has enabled the company to expand beyond selling shoes to clothing, bags, and other product categories, in the process creating tremendous brand loyalty.
this panel will discuss hvac systems, fans and air-conditioning window units.
we are also very lucky to have members of country fried (www.countryfried.net) playing live at 6 pm!posted by sandra hernandez | 24 september 2010
winning strategies to strengthen the voice of nonprofits • public policy for issues critical to your mission • up-to-date state budget analysis •
do you have a spare fax machine?
a  creative mind, energetic spirit, engaging personality, and hard worker.
this class is an epa-required course for anyone renovating homes built before 1978.
avondale playground 709 jame  blvd (avondale) only $15 (cash only) for a dog or cat rabies vaccination,  tag and license.
the workshops will end with a group discussion session to initiate partnerships within the audience to create additional educational and action opportunities for the general public.
pre-registration is required.
the oil spill response intern will assist senior staff in coordinating global green’s regional and national efforts in response to the bp gulf oil spill.
discounts available for students and for organizations registering two or more people.
responsibilities: 1.
new orleans is a place of enchantment.
the fund is  endorsed by the louisiana seafood promotion and marketing board and  administrated by the south central planning and development commission, a  501(c)(3) organization.
please go to our websitehttp://cano-la.org to apply.
if you need assistance with any federal grant, please contact my grant coordinator, mrs. teresita bordenave, at (504) 288-3777 or richmond.grants@mail.house.gov my office is here to help you help our community.
even those that have more tolerant eating habits will grow faster and fatter on their native plants, thereby creating more healthy adults.
as the need for active capital and endowment campaigns is determined; the development assistant will assist in all activities related to the campaigns and will be responsible for setting up meeting spaces, taking committee meeting notes and preparing the minutes; and by providing the documentation necessary as determined by the director of development for those meetings and campaigns.
green building fellow andrew spaulding will be joined by nationally renowned weatherization expert and lsu ag center consultant bill robinson to present a two-day classroom/field component course on energy efficiency and building science, focusing specifically on the southern louisiana climate and the new orleans home.
take advantage of the cool weather to prep your home for the summer!
roberta gratz is an award-winning journalist and urban critic, lecturer and author of the just released: “the battle for gotham: new york in the shadow of robert moses and jane jacobs”
the city is poised to adopt its first master plan in years, this one with the force of law.
in addition, please forward this notice to other organizations that you think are good candidates for this program.
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/viewform?formkey=dennthe1efddm2owav9uanvfnel5v0e6mq join city year new orleans and vietnamese initiatives in economic training (viet)
know the review process and how to address key points for reviewers 7.
in fact, we have arguably taken on more major reforms simultaneously than any modern american city.
participants are equipped with a comprehensive toolkit of knowledge and skills to successfully lead and manage an urban public school.
regular m-f office hours only.posted by rachel robinson | 20 september 2010 ideal for a nonprofit or small business!
these videos were created by the rethink clubs at langston hughes academy and edgar p. harney.
speakers include: entergy corporation environmental defense fund gno inc. tierra resources thursday, jan 26th | 5:30-7pm the ip | 643 magazine street rsvp by 1/23 to sarah at sarahmack@tierraresourcesllc.composted by gnof | 13 january 2012 the underground railroad for new life responds to president obama’s call for national service the nation’s coast-to-coast baby shower is happening in your city!
about friends of the fishermen: the friends of the fishermen fund was started as a way to help the fishermen who were affected by the deepwater horizon oil spill, more commonly known as the bp oil spill of 2010.
admission is a $10.00 donation for snacks, libations, treats for the pooches and live music from “pan vibrations steel band.”
- the collaborative change maker award (ages 7-18) will honor a group or organization comprised entirely of youth under the age of 18 for outstanding work in their community.
the program is named in honor of the late charles bannerman, a lifelong community organizer in mississippi, and the late dana alston, a leader of the environmental justice movement.
sponsors include: abita, the bulldog, crescent crown distributing, glazer’s, and southern eagle.
– mayor landrieu we must rally as a community to solve this problem.
entries must be submitted via online application by wednesday, september 7, 2011, 11:59pm cst.
• communicate with neighborhood associations on the status of client referrals, and manage the process for scheduling follow up with interested clients.
get on board focuses on training volunteers for nonprofit board leadership.
this seminar draws on the experience of greater giving clients that consistently deliver record-breaking fundraisers, plus expertise from talented and creative event planners.
program locations new orleans, louisiana accepting applications: 1/04/2011 – 2/04/2011
frequently asked questions on do good for the gulf 3.
works with volunteer seno “connections committee,” pro-bono service providers, and our circle of executive mentors to support social entrepreneurs • meets with social entrepreneur weekly to measure progress against work plan • coordinates executive mentor meetings, pro-bono technical assistance (legal, marketing research, graphic design, etc.)
just a reminder that april 1 is the deadline for rfps for nonprofit organizations to be considered as fall 2010 clients for the school of mass communication’s pr courses.
here is a link to second line stageshttp://secondlinestages.com/
9 am workshops noon lunch 1 pm workshops 6:30 pm dinner at kipp renaissance (at frederick douglass on st claude in 9th ward) 7:30 pm panel discussion: “building a stronger non-profit sector to support community food initiatives, vulnerable children and families, and innovations in building more innovative cross sector partnerships” tuesday february 22 tentative 9 am wrap up unfinished projects open house with will allen *
head gardener and butterfly and moth enthusiast, amy graham, will share slides of these fascinating and diverse creatures.
strong accounting and excel skills.
in recognition of older americans month, the new orleans council on aging, city of new orleans, and new orleans elder action coalition will host senior fest on friday, may 14, 2010, 10:00a to 2:00p at the southern university of new orleans “the castle” gymnasium located at 6400 press drive.
the gulf catastrophe could have been avoided if the us were growing algae.
-attend training to learn about teaching in the “circle” style and other matters specific to rethink philosophy and subject matter.
do you know of a non-profit organization that could use this list?
the fund is endorsed by the louisiana seafood promotion and marketing board and administrated by the south central planning and development commission, a 501(c)(3) organization.
in order to make this work more transparent and accessible, tulane has launched the website and projecthere.
the gala honors ten men and women who have made significant contributions to our community through their volunteer, charitable and civic service.
we encourage visual artists, composers, filmmakers, choreographers and all other mediums to apply.
- assess and evaluate the effectiveness or the program and its impact on student achievement.
the board is intended to encourage collaborative efforts among local stakeholders for assessing the physical, social, behavioral and educational needs of children and youth in their respective communities and for assisting in the development of comprehensive plans to address such needs.
for more information, please contact phyllis landrieu 504-523-1193 or plandrieu@cox.net.posted by reggie moore | 21 november 2011
the exhibit will remain on view until january 29, 2012.
you’ve got to get out and walk.”
if you are ready to help our children succeed — give today.
thanks to the nba settlement, we continue to provide the production facilities for all the hornets home games.
the plan details how these federal funds will be used toaddress consolidated plan priority needs.
attached you will find the complete grant package.
gala hyatt regency hotel | empire ballroom
while many different forms of art are flourishing in new orleans, it is still tough for local artists to create a sustainable income for themselves.
tuesday, april 13, 2010 7:00 pm: doors open 7:30 pm: speakers and q&a 8:45 pm: refreshments louisiana humanities center at turners’ hall 938 lafayette street new orleans, la 70113
each talk is free, but pre-registration is required due to limited group size.
the other alston bannerman sabbatical fellows for 2011 are: • chung-wha hong, new york immigration coalition, new york, ny •
i now have a need for shells for more significant art works, but have no supply (since most resturants don’t want to be seen giving them out).
after sharing the dream of taking on the mighty  mississippi, it was with perfect timing and a little bit of luck that turned  wishful thinking into a reality — and an opportunity to help some people  in need along the way, donating financial proceeds to the new orleans-based  charity.
•six libraries were built •five reading fairs held in local schools sharing books • 102,500 books distributed • 48 literacy camps held in schools • 13,500 school supply kits distributed • 98 murals painted at schools next elca youth gathering: july 18-22, 2012 new orleans, louisiana
this job description does not imply that these are the only duties to be performed.
the gert town community development center (gtcdc) is proud to present the 2nd annual gert town fest, saturday, september 3, 2011 between 10am-6pm at norwood thompson park (at the corner of earhart and broadway).
you don’t want to miss the important discussion on the role of  nonprofits in public policy and how we can affect policy changes that will  improve conditions for our organizations and our clients.
on thursday, january 19, the prospect.2 student biennial work by students in grades k-6 will premiere at the ogden museum of southern art’s ogden after hours.
i am not able to attend webinar description: during this webinar, we will discuss how you can use cvent’s event management application to increase attendance and participation at your events while reducing overall time and money spent.
rethinkers from all six clubs meet together at an annual summit where they share their visions for change.
posted by gnof | 11 april 2011 palm sunday rabies drive throughout new orleans and jefferson sponsored by the louisiana spca (la/spca) and the southeast louisiana  veterinary association (slva), the palm sunday rabies vaccination drive will be  held from1:00pm-5:00pm on sunday, april 17 at the following  locations: engine 1 2920 magazine st engine 4
the initiative focuses on establishing new orleans as an epicenter of sustainable industries, particularly in the areas of water management, green building, energy efficiency/renewable energy, coastal restoration, and disaster preparation and mitigation.
database and records management • impeccably maintains all donation records in raiser’s edge database • produces acknowledgement and solicitation letters • generates reports from raiser’s edge and excel • prompts the director of development regarding follow-up activities 7.
in a city of heroes, who’s your favorite?
for more information and early ticket prices visit: http://la-spca.org/howlingsuccess are you involved with a non-profit?
the program, funded by the department of energy, helps new orleans homeowners cut energy costs by up to 30%!
essential duties and responsibilities
a pre-application meeting will be held on july 25, 2011, in washington, dc.
lafreiniere street in gentilly.
there is also one coupon to purchase one item at 25% off.
seno has provided a lot of necessary first steps in getting an idea from idea phase to actually functioning.
light organic refreshment served at 5:30pm, meeting begins at 6pm.
without time to rest and reenergize, the pressures of the work can prove overwhelming and result in a loss of creative and critical leadership.
• communicate regularly with partner agencies and gg  headquarters office on financial, programmatic and documentation needs.
— jim p.posted by gnof | 15 february 2011 webinar registration close date: wednesday, february 16, 2011
if you knew how much you needed to raise, and how you were going to raise it?
our marketing kit contains web buttons, conference logos,  informational brochures, social media guides, newsletter submission and more.
and this is not even mentioning our high crime rates and the rate at which our wetlands are disappearing.
fifteen percent of all adult learners in the new orleans metro area are enrolled at the ttlc.
and former bese member *
early consultation: prior to submitting an application, the applicant is required to set up a pre-application conference meeting with a city planner to discuss the proposal.
apply: qualified applicants should submit a resume and brief cover letter  describing their interest in this position via email tonolahr@globalgreen.org.
in partnership with purina one®, tour for life is the world’s  largest cooperative national adoption initiative aimed at reinforcing the  importance and advantages of shelter pet adoptions and familiarizing  communities with their local shelter.
7- 11 p.m. at the legendary howlin’ wolf, located at 907 south peters street.
the election will be held october 22nd.posted by gnof | 28 september 2011
beginning at6 p.m., attendees will enjoy a reception with tulane’s architecture students as they present their visions for the corridor post-highway teardown.
qualifications the successful candidate will have the following  qualities, skills, and experience: • professional experience in  nonprofit, public agency, or construction contractor environment.
for more information and to purchase tickets, please see our website: http://www.globalgreen.org/nolavip on the morning of october 28, global green usa proudly partners with the idea village to present a clean energy/green economy forum at historic kingsley house in the lower garden district.
we can also provide logistical support and trucking equipment and support from local louisana suppliers as well if you require.
moderated by rabbi alexis berk, touro synagogue and michael cowan, chair of the new orleans crime coalition the youth empowerment project: job announcement for a development and communications coordinator the youth empowerment project (yep) is a community-based non-profit organization in new orleans, la.
the center for social inclusion, which assumed the fellowship program three years ago, is a national policy advocacy organization based in new york city.
expand partnerships by identifying, cultivating & soliciting individual, corporate & foundation support (in the 6-7 figure $$ range) * cultivate and nurture relationships with current and potential corporate & foundation sponsors, and individual donors.
tickets go on sale at 1pm the day of the event at city park.
candidates will work part-time (6-8 hours/week) to support and coach an early-stage social entrepreneur in the seno new ventures accelerator program.
moreover, your work would make a profound and lasting contribution to the post-katrina revitalization of new orleans.
the accelerator helps early-stage ventures become operational, reach financial sustainability, and meet social impact targets through hands-on support from paid consultants in areas of need, pro bono professional services (legal, accounting, graphic design, marketing, etc.), a network of mentors and experts, timely connections, peer learning opportunities, and increased exposure for the venture.
the engagenola ‘meet the public official’ series aims, above all, to inform, to educate, and to provide a forum for conversation regarding current events and the roles and responsibilities of our elected and appointed public officials.
last year, 8,500 children received care.
now is the time to act.
“friends of the fishermen is a proven charity that is dedicated to achieving this.”
college degree and/or strong background in database management preferred.
to celebrate,snagfilms presents earth day 2011:
nocp is growing aggressively every year until we serve students in grades k-12, and plans to open additional k-12 campuses throughout the city until reaching full scale of 8-10 schools with total enrollment over 4,000 students.
respond to 504-275-6336.posted by folc | 13 october 2009 when: sunday november 1st, 2:00 pm to 6:00 pm where: parkway bakery & tavern, 538 hagan avenue come out and support the lafitte corridor greenway and revitalization project at folc’s first annual fundraiser.
join fsg’s kania and kramer, jeff edmondson, executive director of the strive partnership (a coalition of postsecondary, k-12, business, and nonprofit organizations)
package professional grant submissions
they take a fax film roll that can also be purchased online easily for about $15.
interested in attending?
pre-conference: tuesday, october 20th 3 hour skill-building sessions beginning at 1:30 p.m.
interested in improving the energy efficiency of your home but not sure how  to finance the upgrades?
refreshments will be served.
pace yourself.posted by gnof | 17 january 2012 invites you to celebrate the launch of the american carbon registry’s approval process of the… world’s first carbon offset methodology for deltaic wetland restoration developed by tierra resources generously funded by entergy corporation join the tierra team for drinks and lite hors d’oeuvres to learn what this groundbreaking methodology means for the city of new orleans and the state of louisiana.
the development assistant will be responsible for accurately recording and tracking donations made to the campaigns and for preparing any reports necessary.
if the mentoring program at kipp renaissance is something that is of interest to you and you are ready to help our students climb the mountain to college, please take five minutes to complete the survey below.
we are a new organization, homesforourbirds.org and we are ready to start doing our part today by making as many bird habitats as we can get funding for.
implementation of strategic plan, goals and objectives.
playing in new orleans @ 2pm the ogden museum of southern art the big uneasy is the first documentary by long-time “mockumentarian” harry shearer (ofspinal tap and the simpsons).
matter l3c is an industrial design & consulting studio based in new orleans, uniquely focused on raising awareness and funding initiatives that advance social change.
and moderator eric nee, managing editor atstanford social innovation review for a lively webcast discussion, debate and q&a on how organizations can develop and implement collective impact initiatives,
for more information about becoming a host family with pax-program of academic exchange, call or email local pax coordinator nathalie bastin at 504-361-0736 /nati1965@yahoo.com or the pax national office at 800-555-6211.
accurately processes and appropriately acknowledges online and conventional planned gifts •
blue drinks will be held at the idea village, located in between magazine and camp streets in the warehouse district.
the question has become even more poignant.
registration form on website below.
criteria for participation are also listed on our website.
as an echoing green fast track search partner, seno will recommend two fellows to automatically advance to the echoing green semifinalist round.
amendments reflecting updated information, changing trends, best practices, or community goals are generally either text changes or revisions to the future land use map (flum).
special “pup-cups” will be available for your furry friends.
this one of a kind opportunity has been described as a “crash course in self-management, strategic planning, fundraising and promotion” for artists of all creative genres.
maintain regular dialogue with each family about youth’s needs, progress in the program and his /her whereabouts - make referrals for youth to community-based providers and follow-up as necessary - provide youth with social work services; crisis intervention; and counseling, as necessary - conduct home visits with youth, as necessary - provide positive behavioral support to students in the classroom - coordinate and facilitate classroom-based groups the village social worker must possess, at minimum, the following qualifications: - graduate degree in social work or related field - a minimum of three years working with at-risk or out-of-school youth - excellent writing and communication skills - familiarity with different new orleans neighborhoods - comfortable working in a variety of settings in the new orleans area - familiarity with local service providers and services - highly flexible - excellent team player - willing to work non-traditional hours - passionate about working with new orleans youth and highly motivated to meet the needs of village youth yep is looking to hire a new village social worker no later than august 1, 2011.
but we’re going to need all these newfound competencies, because the evidence also reveals some pretty disturbing trends-like stark disparities in incomes between racial and ethnic groups, more impoverished folks in the suburbs than in the city, and lagging industries such that we now have fewer jobs in our economy than we did back in 1980.
read morevisit us on facebook nonprofits, welcome to our bulletin board.
come learn how to take advantage of some of the best solar tax incentives in the country, and help power the city toward a safer, more sustainable future.
big easy celebrates seniors under the big top!
if you are selected for the second round, we will invite you to provide additional materials and to schedule an interview.
as a reminder, seno’s new ventures accelerator deadline is april 1, 2011.
if you haven’t noticed yet, wyes now broadcasts on three different channels, all of which are carried on most cable services.
show your support and stop by zack’s frozen yogurt and smoothies for your favorite dessert with your 4-legged friend and help support the la/spca.
posted by global green usa | 5 april 2011 interested in improving the energy efficiency of your home but not sure how  to finance the upgrades?
saturday february 19 film screening: fresh:
primary duties will entail coordinating administrative aspects of the program such as reporting and invoicing.
the parent-family resource centers will be at the following locations: sarah t. reed high school, 5316 michoud blvd.
complete the online application by friday, march 30, 2012, 5:00pm.
under the big top” – this is a carnival theme.
saturday, march 16 11:00am to 1:00pm global green holy cross project 409 andry street new orleans, la 70117 call (504) 525-2121 for more information.posted by gnof | 25 february 2011 we’re in the home stretch of voting for the tooth bus, so that it may receive the $20,000 grant from tom’s of maine.
2 blocks from streetcar.
what’s wrong with that???
the prospect.2 student biennial features work made in response to and collaboration with various prospect.2 artists, and features artwork from students throughout new orleans.
must have experience and proven track record in foundation development.
whatever the issue—poverty, education, healthcare, public safety, environmental protection—nonprofit organizations can be expected to provide critical expertise and direct service to the betterment of lives across the state.
“the oil spill still impacts many facets of coastal life, habitat, and industry, but maintaining the security of the people with the most need can have an important and enduring impact,” said poe.
please email all resumes and inquiries to: phainternship@gmail.composted by gnof | 26 april 2011
a larget part of the work city government is done through the use of boards, commissions, agencies, etc.
if we sent this e-mail to you in error, and you wish not to receive any further e-mails from us, simply send us an email with the word unsubscribe as subject.posted by gnof | 18 january 2011 citizens for 1 greater new orleans “when preception is not reality: the real state of crime in new orleans”
algae has been researched in us universities for over 35 years.
keynote speaker: dr. kirby goidel, director of public policy research, lsu manship school of mass communication’s reilly center for media & public affairs blue cross & blue shield of louisiana foundation brings causeplanet page to practice database access free to lano members in 2012
you’ll have fun, showcase some of our small businesses, and support literacy in our community: win win win!posted by gretchen edinburgh | 18 november 2009 gulf coast housing partnership position title: administrative coordinator supervisor: chief financial officer date: november 2009 gulf coast housing partnership is a 501c(3) real-estate development company whose mission is to catalyze large-scale housing production and community regeneration in areas affected by hurricanes katrina and rita, either directly- or indirectly- by the influx of displaced citizens hit by the 2005 storms.
rsvp to gina jackson at (504) 523-6221 ext.
2273 email: ibrown@dcnso.org new orleans, la – on tuesday, june 14, the recovery school district will open parent-family resource centers at four locations around the city of new orleans.
after 5 years as a visitor, one brick is looking to make new orleans home!
if you purchase a $5.00 ticket, you get an all day 20% discount on regular, sale and clearance women’s, men’s, kids’ apparel and accessories, fine and fashion jewelry, frames, bed and bath items, housewares, luggage and china.
for the first time, we experimented with simultaneous on-line and on-air bidding during two days of our fall auction season.
comply with federal, city and  funder requirements for regular reports, supporting documents, invoices, and  deadlines.
no. 21779, sec.1, comprised of 25 elected leaders, mayoral administration appointees and community organization members tasked with formulating and executing initiatives that promote the healthy development of the city’s children and youth.
join us in new orleans for our 2012 national summit – a gathering of staff, emerging leaders and current executives of social sector, philanthropic, private and public sector organizations from across the country as well as policy experts and thought leaders for a nationally relevant conversation about the future of the social sector.
fundraising planning and implementation.
you can help to address the massive unmet needs for adult literacy services.
the global green new orleans office and green building resource center has the most up to date sustainable product and vendor information, samples of environmentally friendly building materials, and also advises homeowners with professional one-on-one green building consultations.
in addition, information can be found at our website http://www.marchofdimes.com/louisiana for more information, contact: knesha rose, mph state director of program services march of dimes louisiana chapter 12015 justice ave.
all vaccinations administered by members of the slva.posted by global green usa | 5 april 2011 interested in improving the energy efficiency of your home but not sure how to finance the upgrades?
group training session # 3 – program evaluation the program evaluation training session will examine why program evaluations are helpful and how to maximize the results of program evaluations.
the mahalia jackson center is only the first of others planned throughout new orleans and could be our last chance to recover from this human disaster.
other raffle prizes include a bicycle courtesy of east bank cyclery valued at $429 and a pair of la/spca howling success tickets valued at $250.
600 sq ft of office space consists of 4 rooms.
on this night, highly recognized restaurants from around greater new orleans will partner to raise money for animal welfare in our region while attracting patrons and new clients to their business.
demonstrated ability to motivate and manage youth in a classroom setting.
we have received an award for our production of new orleans restaurants with a past, producer peggy scott laborde’s homage to our heritage of great restaurants.
the seminar will begin with a presentation on the definition and uses of social entrepreneurship by stephanie barksdale, special assistant to the president for tulane university’s social entrepreneurship initiatives.
http://nolayouth.org/resources/forms/posted by gnof | 22 july 2011
the funding seed’s nora ellertsen presents grantwriting for beginners, an engaging workshop that will give you the basic skills you need to start writing grants.
check out all that the conference has to offerhere.
• post, monitor and reconcile subsidiary transactions to supporting documentation.
qualifications: the successful candidate will have the following qualities, skills, and experience: • bachelors’ degree required.
co-hosted by st. charles avenue presbyterian church ged program and stair (start the adventure in reading) this half-day workshop features panel discussions conducted by local leaders in established adult basic education and literacy programs.
please callthanks for you help.posted by sandy dempsey | 2 september 2009 nominate an outstanding youth for a 2009 youth change maker
these students are particularly in danger of academic failure and need extra help to succeed.
date: tuesday, december 13 time: 4:00-6:00 pm place: grace episcopal church, 3700 canal street in mid-city registration $35 per person.
although the following list is not exhaustive, it covers a wide range of the responsibilities of the village social worker: - assist with recruitment of village students - conduct intake and ongoing assessments of village students - collect necessary data and maintaining hard and electronic files for village youth - develop service plans with and for village students - develop healthy and supportive relationships with youth - maintain case notes that capture all work done on each youth’s case - confront and address youth on negative and ant-social behaviors - attend meetings both at yep and in the community with youth, as necessary - advocate for youth clients within a variety of settings, including, but not limited to school, juvenile court, medical and mental health agencies and other community based service providers.
locations: new orleans, la; birmingham, al; atlanta, ga.
an ambassador corps member can serve as a docent (tour-guide) for the visitor center after shadowing a fellow docent a few times before taking the lead on tours.
knowledge of political environments and their impact on organizational goals and activities.
st. bernard has many of the key elements needed to attract new homeowners, residents and businesses to our area- safe neighborhoods, great schools, brand new infrastructure, intriguing culture and recreation, a good business climate and easy access to the metropolitan area.
cell: 504.388.0184 – email: nattiescat@yahoo.com.posted by katherine s. johnson | 14 july 2010 high voltage, inc. is collecting supplies to assist young women at raintree children services with back to school supplies and a labor day picnic.
to reserve a seat contact: laura gaitan (612) 702-3350 laura@immigrantfarming.org cordially invites you to our annual gala november 19th, 2011 from 7 pm – 10 pm, $60 at basin street station, 501 basin street, new orleans, la 70112 please join us for changing lives, building our future which will include a silent auction, live music, and the 2011 justice for youth award ceremony.
must have a parish address to receive a  license, out of parish participants will receive rabies vaccine only, not tag  or license.
we’re all hearing how the effects of the recession are hitting nonprofits across the state.
a  creative mind, energetic spirit, engaging personality, and hard worker; • good communication and customer service skills.
light refreshment served at 5:30pm, meeting begins at 6pm.
• database management skills.
do you want to add a valuable skill to your resume?
if you or your organization works with volunteers in any capacity, this is an event you and your constituents do not want to miss!
we started as the first-of-its kind re-entry program for juvenile offenders in louisiana and now, in our seventh year of operation, we operate six different programs and are one of the region’s most comprehensive and established agencies working with at-risk, court-involved and out-of-school youth and their families.
nominations are being accepted for six categories: - the going green change maker award (ages 7-18) will honor a young person leading the way in environmental activism.
a member of the ambassador corps has four potential ways to volunteer with global green: digital-volunteer a digital-volunteer is an individual that can help global green via computer and/or phone.
i have some toner that i can send with them, but not a lot.
if you would like to participate in this exciting program please send the following information toesther.shin@urbanstrategiesinc.org by monday, november 30, 2009 name of organization executive director’s email address and phone number contact person’s title, email address and phone number website (if available) 100 word description of what your organization achieves we will contact you regarding next steps.
we are committed to three things: our faculty is a diverse and talented group dedicated to our students’ success and to their own growth as teachers.
private rooms are not required and single parents, young couples and retirees are all welcome to host.
the creative capital workshop intends to change this situation.
•grants •louisiana standards for excellence •performance dashboards •technology •major gifts •the perfect nonprofit conference tracks: wednesday, october 21st and thursday, october 22nd •communications •fund development •human resources and risk management •organizational leadership and development •public policy (new) •social enterprise •trends and issues in turbulent times •volunteerism and civic engagement lunch keynote: wednesday, october 21st geoffrey canada is founder and chief executive officer of the harlem children’s zone (hcz), a comprehensive continuum of education, social, health and community development services that addresses the needs of over 10,000 impoverished children and families across 100 city blocks in harlem, new york.
interesting and readable.posted by martha landrum | 30 july 2009 nike is investing $50,000 in new orleans.
if you are selected as a 2012 fellow, seno will inform you of the decision, and you will be assigned an accelerator consultant and executive mentor who will work with you on your venture approximately 6-8 hours/week to help you meet your top financial sustainability and social impact goals.
attendees can also cool off with a snowball courtesy of nick’s snowballs and gelato.
‘wetland warriors’ aims to increase society’s knowledge and clarify complex issues on the science of wetlands, management, restoration and protection methods in louisiana.
eric guillory of taylor & tyler, inc and andrew spaulding of global green will walk you through easy do-it-yourself measures, as well as larger projects that will help your house manage the summer heat.
responsibilities: -collaborate with the development advisory board, coordinating efforts/meetings/communication with advisory board chair -manage donor relationships, monitoring donor information and communication -manage and coordinate annual appeal to donor base.
deadline for application is  05/19/2011.
jon atkinson was a huge help to me at a time when i could not afford to bring on help.
personality: relentlessly positive and  upbeat; impeccably detail-oriented and organized; highly professional;  trustworthy with confidential information; able to work productively with  little or no supervision; dependable, articulate, mission-driven team player  with a good sense of humor 7.
for immediate release contact: linda esah lesah@cns.gov 202-606-3225 january 26,2010 washington, dc—the corporation for national and community service issued a notice of funding availability (nofa) today that will provide grant funding to launch new rsvp projects – service projects that recruit volunteers ages 55 and over – in communities not served and expand existing service programs.
topics will include: community ministries, literacy program structures, funding sources, curricula, and assessments.
winners will be notified of their awards.
represents the agency to the general public, media and in public relations matters in a strong, positive manner.
give if you believe in our children and in our city.
craft a cover letter explaining your interest in this position, and submit letter and resume tojobs@leadingeducators.org with “program experience manager – kansas city” in the subject line.
we have formed a partnership with the sankofa farmers market and are screening sesame street “growing hope against hunger.”
what does the mentoring program include?
• knowledge of  techniques necessary for effective community outreach and organizing around  important social, political and economic issues.
major gift/donor support • assists in producing major donor,  board and special category solicitations • provides support materials  as needed • accurately inputs and tracks major gifts with impeccable  confidentiality • assists the director of development with major gift  cultivation involving board members and/or the president 3.
fuel for thought: our environmental future depends on the energy choices we make now global green is proud to partner with the aia, new orleans chapter and the usgbc, la chapter to present a series of monthly panel discussions on issues of sustainability and environmental responsibility.
program experience manager – kansas city the program experience manager (pem) acts as the interface between the leading educators team and fellows.
our showcase is going to be called “beats for the bayou” and it is to take place on wednesday, november 3rd, 2010 in the student union theater on the university of connecticut storrs campus.
organize and plan special events such as mini-fundraisers and community celebrations reporting: develop monthly reporting mechanism for internal reports ; develop regular reporting mechanism for donor reports , compile and disseminate reports charting progress of the program data management: maintain convio database ; ensure that surveys are being entered correctly into database ; troubleshoot problems with database.
the grant training center this intensive three-day grant proposal workshop is geared for: 1) those who wish to strengthen their grant writing skills and 2) beginners who wish to acquire and master the techniques of preparing, writing, and winning proposals from various funding agencies.
one can become a member by participating in the next training at the holy cross project visitor center: ambassador corps training 2 pm to 4 pm saturday, june 5th 409 andry street, new orleans what will i do as a member of the ambassador corps?
winter is a great time to get into your attic and examine your hvac system.
thank you for your interest in this important program and we look forward to working with you.
give if you are finished living with failure.
commitment of 25 — 30 hours per week is required (12:30 – 5:30 pm, m – f)
to qualify for the one-on-one technical assistance and competitive financial assistance awards, and receive priority for the group training sessions an organization must first complete the capacity assessment.
applicants should include  “development office assistant” on the cover letter and send three  references contact information.
the alston bannerman fellowship is a national award presented by the center for social inclusion (csi) that honors longtime community activists of color and gives them the opportunity to take sabbaticals.
green financing  workshop: the event will now be held at 841 baronne street due to filming on  carondelet.
communications and public relations • coordinates with  internal and external stakeholders to support the production of newsletters,  solicitations, and annual reports 6.
barbara poley, the hopi foundation, kykotsmovi, az • jamala rogers organization for black struggle, st. louis, mo • kabzuag vaj, freedom, inc., madison, wi • marcos vargas, central coast alliance for a sustainable economy (cause), ventura, ca founded in 1988, the alston bannerman program has awarded 202 fellowships to activists of color across the united states and its territories.
seno accelerator fellows generated a 1500% return on investment, bringing in over $1.5 million in external financing and revenues and creating 17 new jobs since the beginning of the program.
- the social entrepreneurship change maker award (ages 7-18) will honor an outstanding young person engaged in advancing social causes through entrepreneurial innovations.
as a mentor, you will serve as a role model to our young scholars by representing something that they aspire to be.
together we can practice justice!posted by gnof | 3 august 2011 friends— this is my monthly list of new or updated federal grants to help you stay current on valuable community funding.
the planning commission’s recommendation will be forwarded to the city council for final disposition.
we have seven four drawer filing cabinets available for free for anyone willing to pick them up and move them from 2nd floor of our office.
please make a donation on my behalf to support childhood cancer research so that all children diagnosed with cancer will have a better chance for a cure.
the deadline for nominations is september 25, 2009 at 5 p.m.
hosted by new orleans own terry scott!
the prospect.2 student biennial could not have been possible without our incredible partners.
provides  support for fund raising events • supports board-level development  committees by preparing meeting spaces, taking notes, and providing reports as  necessary • produces reports in raiser’s edge and excel • assists in creating annual fund raising plan • oversees  reconciliation with accounting department to ensure accuracy in gift stewardship 2.
do you have the next big idea coming out of new orleans?
each vsw will be responsible for providing intensive support and services to approximately 30 youth at a time.
a total of 3,725 students have been served by the ttlc since its inception.
and she has done it by empowering families to take leadership.”
come experience the possibilities lano’s annual conference, mission possible, is two-and-a-half days of informative sessions that offer new ideas, motivation, knowledge and networking.
this invitation-only intimate cocktail reception will feature more than 100 local green economy leaders and global green supporters celebrating our achievements in new orleans and on the gulf coast.
since january 2009, the non-profit has conducted more than 200 financial counseling sessions, graduated 120 homeownership workshop clients and hosted more than ten financial management courses for residents and businesses of the greater new orleans metropolitan area.
please arrive at least ten minutes before the talk.
global green’s build it back green program tuesday, june 29th 6:00pm – 8:00pm at good work network 1824 oretha castle haley blvd.
- provide direct coaching to teacher-leaders and supervise additional coaches as needed.
general description:
but they would be perfect for a small non-profit that might be on a limited budget.
the sheriff’s office tasks weekly trash pick up crews, neighborhoods continue to work on beautifying their entryways and the parks & parkways commission is planning pocket parks throughout our community.
our mission is to prepare each of our students to enter and excel in a rigorous 4-year college or university.
the amount to grant this year will be slightly higher than $50,000.posted by mindy keller | 21 july 2010 seasons grief and loss center is looking for a grant writer.
to apply, please send cover letter and resume to judy young at 1300 perdido  street, chief administrative office 9th floor new orleans, la 70112.
open house drop by and meet the teachers friday, september 9th 12-2pm lunch served enrollment and testing: monday september 12 – thursday september 15 1pm – 6pm (drop in) classes begin monday, september 19 sessions are held monday – thursday afternoon & evening
provide recommendations on weatherization upgrades; lead weatherization upgrades; train staff and volunteers on air sealing and other energy efficiency methods; resource center: maintain wall panel displays of green products; create portable displays demonstrating green technologies; other: give tours of holy cross house; table events.
where: the idea village, 515 girod street, new orleans, 70130 when: friday, january 27th, 2012 from 5:30 pm – 7:30 pm who: individuals and companies interested in being a part of the local green economy why: great people, great drinks, and getting involved with the 2012 water challenge special thanks to the idea village for the use of their venue!
program start/end date 2/21/2011 – 2/20/2012 work schedule full time education level high school graduate age requirement minimum: 18 yrs
our e-journal covers a broad range of topics related to american foreign policy and international affairs.
* operations commenced no earlier than october 7, 2010.
call 368-5191 or visithttp://www.la-spca.org for more information.posted by lori haeuser | 16 april 2010 may 6th
ideal candidates are hard-working, motivated, has experience with disadvantaged youth, instruction, and service-learning and possess a minimum of a bachelor’s degree or is enrolled in a degree-seeking institution.
on opening day, 71 idealistic young leaders will pledge over 120,000 hours of service to the state of louisiana.
responsible for the implementation of the priorities.
register online at http://www.thefundingseed.com.
the pem builds and sustains positive, productive professional relationships with fellows by ensuring frequent communication from program staff and by supporting program events that enhance their overall two-year experience.
purpose: the master plan is a long-term vision for the future of new orleans.
much has happened in new regulations and in approaches to grant writing, be it for the researcher in the sciences and social sciences, education and non-profit professionals.
nonprofit organizations provide solutions to society’s greatest challenges.
get trained in grant writing and grant assessment.
for more information about the corporation, visit nationalservice.gov.
proficient in the use of quickbooks or similar accounting software.
the group training sessions will occur approximately every 8-10 weeks.
* workshop fee: $595.00 (including tuition, materials, certificate of completion, and continental breakfast)
what: city year louisiana opening day ceremony when:friday, october 2, 2009 12:00pm-1:00pm where: louisiana state capitol building 900 n. 3rd street baton rouge, la 70810 rsvp:
well-organized with demonstrated ability to multi-task.
producer marcia kavanaugh and informed sources producer errol laborde spent 30 minutes with both congressmen steve scalise and jeff landry.
grants will target programs that involve sports, mentoring, and education.
second prize: dr. browning will offer a grant proposal critique and review valued at $2,500.
there is no charge for the luncheon  but guests will be asked to make a donation to kingsley house during the  program.
our next session begins january 19th, and this will be an opportunity to meet our participants for this upcoming session as well as network with other nonprofits, even if your organization has not already signed up to accept a get on board graduate as an apprentice or full board member.
ivan varnado from inspector 12 will be speaking on how to recognize mold and mildew in your home and eliminate it.
if interested in helping, please contact mindy keller at 504-834-5957.posted by anita calagna | 19 july 2010 i would still like to get metropolitan center for women and children in the spotlight.
if your organization is interested in participating by accepting a new trained board member, please visithttp://www.jlno.org for more details or send an email to getonboard@jlno.org.posted by vincent fedeli | 17 september 2010
please join us this thursday at the aia center for design.
this course will be an 8 hour course offered on the 18th of january, 2011 given by bill robinson.
the corporation for national and community service is a federal agency that engages more than five million americans in service each year through its core programs, senior corps, americorps, and learn and serve america, and leads president obama’s national call to service initiative, united we serve.
where: 1055 st. charles avenue, 1st floor large conference room, new orleans 70130 info: for more information, please go to http://www.urbanstrategiesinc.org rsvp: to rsvp, please e-mail esther shin at esther.shin@urbanstrategiesinc.orgposted by juliana | 30 april 2010 pam bryan of preservation resource center will be presenting on thursday, may 6th, 6-7:30pm at 923 tchoupitoulas street light refreshment will be providedposted by clive charlwood | 28 april 2010 volunteering just doesn’t get any easier than this!
in collaboration with the board of directors, gives direction and leadership toward the achievement of puentes’ philosophy, mission, and strategy.
global green usa’s linda stone will moderate our panel of local alternative energy experts:
responsibilities include: •
i needed support on the business end of jack and jake’s, and jon has helped me…in seeking out new capital, helped to get meetings with potential investors, and helping me set up the financial infrastructure and systems on the ground.”
participants will explore how to help attract and incubate green businesses and economic opportunities in cities along the gulf coast, and engage in discussions of model policies and local success stories, including stion solar, golden leaf energy, green coast enterprises, and free flow power.
work schedule: full-time, hourly; 40 hours per week 8.
there are still a few spaces left in our next advancing youth development (ayd) training, august 1-4 from 8am-2pm each day.
the junior league of new orleans sponsors the five-week get on board nonprofit board training program, which focuses on training volunteers for nonprofit board leadership.
they’re a great resource for that kind of training.
“i’m proud to participate in tour for  life and want to encourage americans across the country who are considering  adding a pet to their families to visit their local shelter or stop by one of  our events, and rescue a homeless pet.”
the debut of wyes conversations (fridays at 8p) was a public affairs breakthrough for us, as we interviewed the newsmakers rather than the media.
be sure to answer all questions exactly as you would like the information to appear in the final published document.
air quality can impact the health of you and your family?
wyes national productions.
nola build it back green events are free and open to the public.
comply with federal, city and funder requirements for regular reports, supporting documents, invoices, and deadlines.
applications close may 10th 5:00 pm.
tuesday, october 25th 6pm-8pm green building resource center 841 carondelet st., new orleans light refreshments will be served.
nutrition 5 minute yoga sessions
our mobile unit business continues to supply needed funds to wyes.
to receive a copy of an application, please call the above number.posted by gnof | 12 july 2011 will conduct outreach sessions throughout the state july 5 – 12 established in may 2011, foundation for louisiana is the successor to the louisiana disaster recovery foundation (ldrf).
this class is a partnership between susco solutions, kinglsey house community center, second line stages, and novac.
this seminar is designed to help your organization: · understand the concepts of social entrepreneurship and how to leverage your work to create sustainable, scalable solutions to social challenges, · brainstorm new opportunities to incorporate innovation, sustainability, and scale into your social venture, and · make connections and find new partners.
• ability to meet deadlines and performance objectives.
create a grant design prior to writing the proposal •
salary range $45,000-50,000.
http://www.wyes.org.
service areas : community and economic development , community outreach , disaster relief , education , environment , hurricane katrina , housing , neighborhood revitalization skills : communications , community organization , computers/technology , education , fund raising/grant writing , leadership , public speaking , trade/construction , writing/editing .
compensation the intern will be paid a weekly stipend  of $500.
thank you for your support!posted by gnof | 17 march 2011 free orientation & training in arts-based peer education for orleans parish theater artists, educators, and leaders.
this year’s justice for youth award recipients include: tickets may be purchased by sending a check made payable to jjpl to 1600 oretha castle haley blvd, new orleans, la 70113 or may be purchased online athttp://www.jjpl.org by clicking on “donate” and specifying “annual gala” in the note field.
by bringing together those working to tackle similar challenges from the grassroots level to policy, we hope to connect you with those who can help move your ideas forward.
compensation: dependent upon experience.
we seek employees who can be dedicated to our youth and to rethink.
bms help facility owners and operators obtain energy star® labeling and leed® green building certification in new construction, existing buildings, commercial interiors and core and shell development.
we encourage you to forward the rfp to individual youth, unincorporated youth groups, 501(c)3 organizations or faith-based organizations who may be interested in gyaf funding.
for walls, a native of flint and social relations/environmental economic  senior, it was the sheer desire for adventure that inspired a trip of this  magnitude.
to do so, we’ve joined the conversation on facebook and twitter and hope you will join in too!
our goal is to improve the long-term well-being of students, families, and school communities served by firstline.
from 7:30 to 10pm, jon cleary and mohican scouts will perform at the green project’s green room, constructed from recycled materials.
all materials should be sent to melissa sawyer, co-founder/executive director, 1604 oretha castle haley blvd, new orleans, la 70113 or emailed tomsawyer@youthempowermentproject.org.
the center of attention will be on how to effectively write proposals in times of keen competition and limited resources.
awards • first place: $3,500 + executive mentorship, consulting, and pro-bono technical assistance (i.e., legal, accounting, marketing, etc.) provided by social entrepreneurs of new orleans • audience favorite: $500 judges * nishith acharya, ceo, deshpande foundation * leslie jacobs, founder, educate now!
write winning grants that stand out against scores of competing submissions 8.
all of our new orleans players will be in attendance so we invite you to come out and have a laugh with our team.
the evidence reveals some positive trends.
the theme of the night is “brass blowout,” and will showcase some of the city’s hottest brass bands, including free agents brass band and headliners rebirth brass band.
italian & seafood vega tapas vafe the velvet cactus “pause for dinner,” our annual one-night only restaurant event, will take place on thursday, june 16, 2011 during regular dinner hours.
dinner and beverages will be served.
for more information on seno, please visit target=”_blank”> http://www.seno-nola.org.
fundraising events 101 tuesday, january 24 3:30-6:00 p.m. the new orleans healing center 2372 st. claude ave.
revise marketing materials as needed; facebook: maintain bibg facebook page; post news, events and photos; other duties:
participate in home weatherizations weatherization is the modification of a building to reduce energy consumption, thus reducing utility bills.
when: tuesday, may 18th, 1:00 pm
date: tuesday, july 20th, 2010 time: 1:00 pm – 3 pm location: operation reach, 1700 josephine st. (at carondelet) new orleans, la 70113-1522 (street parking available) rsvp deadline: friday, july 16th at 5:00 pm.
for ticket inquiries, contact laquan fields, senior center manager, at (504) 821-4121 ext.
there will also be time set aside for questions, discussions, networking, and brainstorming.
the junior league of new orleans is currently conducting its second year of get on board, a community initiative that trains and places individuals interested in nonprofit board service with local nonprofit boards.
the artwork created by students, in the style of ashton ramsey, will by worn by the artists.
entry requirements to apply, please submit an online written proposal of no more than 500 words and an optional 1-3 minute youtube video that showcases you pitching your idea.
green collaborative presentation 5:55:
as an ashoka changeshops partner, seno fellows will have access to a suite of online tools to help access the capital, talent and collaborators they need to grow their initiatives.
ensures that the agency has the necessary infrastructure to support its activities.
we have asked the state for capital funding to help complete our rebuilding project.
submission of a concept paper is required.
government officials september 16-17:teachers and informal educators tentative workshop schedule registration the 2-day workshops to be held in cocodrie, la cover the costs of housing, reference materials and vessels.
please rsvp to christy reigert at wwl-tv at (504) 529-6321 or atcreigert@wwltv.com.posted by gnof | 22 march 2011 april 6th and 7th, 2011 in baton rouge the nonprofit sector is an essential player in louisiana’s public policy arena.
• maintenance of corporate accounting schedules.
specifically, we’re commemorating today’s one-year anniversary of the gulf oil spill by promotinghunting for oil, a short documentary.
algae is one solution to get the us off of foreign oil and create new jobs right here in the us.
to learn more about the fast-track commercialization of the industry, you may want to check out the national algae association.
una-usa, new orleans programs include: global classrooms® global classrooms is an innovative education program that brings the model un experience to urban public schools across the greater new orleans area.
• prefer background in energy efficiency and/or home retrofit contracting, including home energy audits and energy efficiency financing.
increased economic opportunity builds more resilient communities.”
title: delivering happiness and creating an enduring brand description: zappos’ ceo tony hsieh will discuss the different ingredients used by zappos to build a long-lasting brand, including the importance of customer service and company culture.
“alima” means “those who are skilled at dance and music” in arabic and our goal is to educate and promote a connection between all types of dance despite race, ethnicity, religion, or regional conflict.
the program is a two-year initiative that includes capacity assessments, one-on-one technical assistance, group training sessions and competitive financial assistance awards to fund capacity building initiatives.
• purchase programmatic materials and supplies as required by budget.
i am working on a new program for new orleans youth and am in the beginning stages of planning.
this will be the final meeting for the 2011 action plan and the first public meeting seeking your input on the 2012 action plan.
an energetic individual with high ethical standards.
a car or bicycle would suffice.
alternative energy • other (not listed above)
the application deadline is august 16, 2010.
when: every thursday from 5:30-6:30 dates: thursday, july 14 thursday, july 21 thursday, july 28 thursday, august 4 where: the idea village 515 girod street click here to rsvp.
help!posted by logoilbooms | 15 july 2010 we have available immediately to assist your local oilspill responders with an immediate delivery capacity of up to 25,000 feet per day of oil spill log booms to assist in protection of shorelines, wetlands and beach areas from incoming surface oil.
from 9:30pm to 2am, mimi’s in the marigny, hi-ho lounge, saturn bar, and the mother-in-law lounge will give discounts to all customers who present a reusable cup.
what: “nonprofit financial planning and managment.”
* walter l. cohen high school, 3520 dryades st. * george w. carver elementary school, 3059 higgins blvd.
“where do we go from here?
attendees will receive a certificate of participation for completing the workshop.
where: conrad playground 3400 hamilton street new orleans, la 70118
replacement toner is easily purchased online for around $40.
we’re happy to hear that you enjoy our blog!
rsvp at http://www.jlno.org/getonboard this event was made possible by funding received from a greater new orleans foundation community impact grant.
electronically file corporate accounting schedules, financial documents and accounting support documents.
it’s time to take action!
the director of operations will oversee build
qualified applicants should submit cover letter and resume by june 15th via email toclopez@globalgreen.org for consideration.posted by heidi jensen | 8 june 2010 global green usa’s new orleans office is looking for an advocacy intern.
eric dumbaugh is associate professor and program coordinator for the master’s of urban and regional planning program at florida atlantic university.
fan us on facebook: http://www.facebook.com/kivanola & follow us @kivanola.
in today’s media saturated world, it’s more important than ever to effectively communicate your message to patrons, major funders, and volunteers.
text amendments affect the policies of the comprehensive plan on a city-wide level.
we will address the most common issues that planners face when trying to maximize their return on event (roe): •
as temperatures change stay ahead of the game – make your home more efficient – perform seasonal maintenance.
qualifications: the successful candidate will have the following qualities,  skills, and experience: • bachelors’ degree required.
participate in tabling and outreach events global green has several events that involve reaching out to the community.
all materials and supplies will provided by bayou land rc&d.
work with the  pr consultant to facilitate a web-based viral marketing effort to reach the  residential, non-profit, and small commercial sectors, utilizing tools that  include social media, blogs, etc. • contribute to the ggusa and/or  nola wise web site, including maintaining updated content, links to partner  organizations, oversight of customer/partner online database, and volunteer  opportunities within the organization.
please rsvp no later than wednesday, march 16th, 2011.
needless to say i will certainly convey to most my contacts about this, really original.
belle  terre playground 5600 bell terre rd (marrero)
the event will take place at the pavilion of the two sisters in city park, and honors ten men and women who have made significant contributions to our community through their volunteer, charitable and civic service.
follow the link below to complete the survey now.
host families are asked to provide students with meals, a place to sleep and study, and a warm, supportive environment.
help us continue our city’s entrepreneurial momentum and join the movement!
this festival celebrates a people who have shaped our region in so many ways, yet have largely gone unrecognized.
kipp renaissance high school (housed at frederick douglass high school) is a college preparatory high school located in the bywater neighborhood of new orleans,currently serving mostly african-american, first-generation, local ninth and tenth grade students.
a “social entrepreneur” is an individual who develops an effective and efficient solution to a pressing social problem and measures his/her success in social impact.
do not follow-up with your application once submitted.
the program, in partnership with the city of new orleans and the department of energy, helps new orleans homeowners save at least 15% on their utility usage, connects homeowners to trusted, vetted, and nationally certified green contractors, and provides incentives and low interest loans to help pay for your upgrades.
all questions marked with a *[star] requires a response.
an archive of previous “opsbrief” emails can be found by visiting http://archive.constantcontact.com/fs043/1104983095342/archive/1105984199241.html .
the alston bannerman fellowship appreciates that community organizing is vital and demanding work, which gets too little recognition or reward.
reports on the respective meetings are sent out no later than close of business the following day.
green the holidays with the green light district: december 9th, 2010 global green, in partnership with the aia new orleans chapter, usgbc – la chapter and the young leadership council of new orleans proudly join the green conscious collaboration of businesses known as the green light district for a festive evening of sustainable shopping at the green light district holiday launch party on december 9th!
for more info visit http://www.canineconnectionnola.com or http://www.la-spca.org or call 267-4143 or 368-5191, ext.
these funds increase service opportunities for older americans to help address the challenges facing communities across the nation,” said nicola goren, the corporation’s acting ceo.
develop and maintain necessary relationships with private and public entities in order to achieve puentes mission.
this year’s fundraising goal of $20,000 will help asii expand current services and capitalize new programs such as a youth micro-enterprise and a college savings initiative.
from 10am to 5pm, members of the reuse district will host workshops with reused materials.
will only two grants be awarded?posted by lauren | 27 july 2010 gnof replies: angelina, grants will be in the $20,000 – $25,000 range, but may be smaller than that depending on the applications we receive.
qualifications the successful candidate will have the following qualities, skills, and experience: • professional experience in nonprofit, public agency, or construction contractor environment.
all positions are seasonal.posted by song | 18 march 2010 dear community member, jjpl’s youth group, young adults striving for success is hosting a 2010 youth summit on saturday, march 27 at hope academy, 2437 jena st. (at the intersection of freret and napoleon) to rsvp, or for more info, please call 522-5437 or visit us at http://www.jjpl.org it’s time to take action!
loyola avenue hear the rethinkers speak out on childhood obesity and the school-to-prison pipeline – and deliver twelve recommendations for change to school officials and the community.
so far, 5 houses have been bought and sold.
for every $10 you donate, your team will receive 25 cents to spend on ingredients beyond a basic pantry.
applications will be reviewed by a selection committee with the goal of assembling a very diverse group of artists from varied artistic genres and cultural backgrounds.
volunteer with global green’s ambassador corps what is the ambassador corps?
dr. sherwood “woody” gagliano, ceo of coastal environments inc., and considered by many to be the “father of the louisiana coastal restoration movement” will highlight opportunities for small business development and jobs in coastal restoration in the next 10 years, as well as emerging opportunities to help finance coastal protection and restoration.
the  development assistant supports that mission though assisting in fund raising;  donor cultivation and communications; and impeccable record keeping.
participants will learn how to: 1.
regular duties include, but are  not limited to, the following: 1.
program expectations include: • mentors check-in on personal mentee 2-3 times a year to offer support and advice • mentors stand next to mentee at renaissance convocation on saturday, nov. 5th (8:30-10:30 a.m.)
afterwards, they will sign these books along with the author.
if you’re a young person tired of the problems you face everyday—from violence and crime to a lack of quality education, this is the event to attend.
the event will take place at the pavilion of the two sisters in city park.
each screen print reflects a  memory of new orleans.
• directly supervise the administrative coordinator, who is responsible for reporting and invoicing.
please email all resumes and inquiries to: phainternship@gmail.com
aia new orleans center for design 1000 st. charles ave new orleans, la 70130 suggested minimum donation of $15.00 per person.
this year’s event will spotlight the museum 25th birthday with a trip back to 1986, so grab your leg-warmers and break-out your cassette tapes for this blast from the past!
want to participate?
throughout the months of march and april, tour for life 2011 will travel  the length of the united states from north to south and east to west, helping  over 100 shelter and rescue groups to bring awareness to their organizations  and find homes for orphaned pets in their care.
seno is better than a fairy godmother.
for more information, please contact: rebecca donaldson, cpa chief financial officer gulf coast housing partnership 504.525.2505 donaldson@gchp.net hi my name isa selena small
this month, join co-founder and principal of green coast enterprises, reuben teague, and environmental professionals from the nola wise team will discuss an innovative collaboration between global green usa and the city of new orleans.
to be eligible for pitchnola each submission must meet the following criteria (please visithttp://www.seno-nola.org for full entry requirements):
applications close may 10th 5:00 pm.posted by gnof | 11 april 2011 sponsored by the louisiana spca (la/spca) and the southeast louisiana veterinary association (slva), the palm sunday rabies vaccination drive will be held from1:00pm-5:00pm on sunday, april 17 at the following locations: engine 1 2920 magazine st engine 4 6900 downman rd engine 12 5600 franklin ave engine 17 4115 woodland dr engine 18 778 harrison ave engine 24 1040 poland ave engine 25 2430 s carrollton ave engine 27 2118 elysian fields ave engine 35 964 n carrollton ave engine 36 5403
the green collaborative has teamed up with lifecity’s green drinks holiday party to celebrate all of you who have helped us throughout the past year to create a greater, greener and more sustainable new orleans.
all of the participating restaurants will be serving a special dish that includes either fish, oysters, shrimp or crabs from the gulf of mexico, which supplies nearly half of all the country’s seafood.
life-saving adoption event set for saturday, april 2 beginning  at 11
“parents and community members deserve clear information about their schools and their choices,” rsd superintendent john white said.
here is a link to kingsley househttp://www.kingsleyhouse.org/ my name is carly olson and i am president and founder of alima international dance association at the university of connecticut.
the vital need to support, teach, educate, and advance the thinking of future generations in order to train and enhance them into solving multinational, national and global perils, is our mission.
posted by gnof | 30 march 2011 build now foundation, inc. position: director of operations reports to: executive director the build now foundation, a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization constructing new  homes in new orleans’ flooded neighborhoods, seeks a director of  operations.
including budget management, fund development, financial systems and controls.
our ultimate goal is: for each participant who wishes to develop a proposal, to walk away with a product that includes the grant design, abstract and budget.
demetria christo of ecourban llc will be on hand to talk about managing water in your yard through easy measures like rain barrels, rain gardens, and permeable landscaping.
july 26th, 6pm-8pm 841 carondelet street new orleans, la 70130
please use this community space to post your needs, share your resources, and announce your events.
experience: minimum two years of accounting work experience.
take part in this free workshop to learn how to find  the funds to green your house.
everything else we do is facilitated by a team of volunteers working together to make a difference.
his work and hcz have been profiled in the media and embraced as president barack obama’s “signature initiative to combat poverty” through his “promise neighborhoods” initiative.http://www.hcz.orgposted by gnof | 9 october 2009
i’d like to follow you if that would be ok.
rules and regulations 4.
thursday, august 11, 2011 tulane university, lbc-213, kendal cram lecture hall 12:00-3:00pm (lunch included)
contact lisa keitges, la/spca event coordinator, at lisa@la-spca.org or 504-762-3307.
paid accelerator consultants will spend 6-8 hours per week working hands-on with social entrepreneurs in areas of need determined by the social entrepreneur.
call 366-4044 or visithttp://www.la-spca.org for more information.posted by lori haeuser | 16 april 2010 may 20th pasta with a purpose at semolina to benefit the la/spca will be held at semolina located at 4436 veterans blvd.
jane jacobs believed strongly that local residents understood best how their neighborhood works, and what is needed to strengthen and improve them.
because of the gulf coast’s keen understanding of the importance of volunteering and service to strengthen community bonds and take sustained action, the region’s largest city was not just the natural choice to host the 2011 gathering—it was the only choice.
also, $2 from every “love for animals” martini will go to the la/spca.
the luncheon does not include a ticket price, however, guests will be asked to make a donation to kingsley house during the event (cash, check, or credit card accepted).
vendors who would like to exhibit at senior fest can contact coretta lagarde at (504) 821-4121 ext.
for more information, contact lauren rachal atlrachal@nlns.org or 504-267-1509.posted by betty becker | 18 september 2009 family service of greater new orleans macy’s shop for a cause you have a wonderful opportunity to help raise some funds for family service of greater new orleans.
this forum will discuss: “when perception is not reality: the real state of crime in new orleans and how to address it.”
our case management and administrative office in located in the central city neighborhood of new orleans and our educational center is in the mid-city neighborhood.
stop by global green’s green building resource centerat 841 carondelet street, and add a little green to your white linen evening!posted by gnof | 4 august 2010 dear friends and colleagues, three crises-hurricane katrina, the great recession, and the gulf oil spill-in five years.
• highly organized, diplomatic and persistent.
the infrastructure for planning is intended to be data-driven in order to select appropriate evidence-based programs which will maximize available resources.posted by shannan cvitanovic | 8 august 2011
i’m a first time visitor of the gnof website and i’ve learned a lot so far.
kingsley house 1600 constance street, new orleans kermit & his grill, beer & wine, wwl traffic reporter christina leavenworth and kingsley house board member miles thomas as mistress & master of ceremonies must have business card to enter guests will be asked to make a donation at door for more information: (504) 523-6221 x127 email:
applicants must register at grants.gov prior to submitting an application.
the intern must be able to work in a small office with a handful of hardworking, but good-natured colleagues and handle projects independently as well as within a small team.
consulting experience •
twenty-five of new orleans’ most prolific latin jazz artists will perform the melodic and danceable beats of their genre in honor of the significant contribution of latino immigrants to the rebuilding of the city.
the gulfsouth youth action fund’s youth advisory board supports progressive, youth-led and youth-driven initiatives that demonstrate the power of youth motivated to create change in their community.
call sheryll cascio, 827-4002 for ticket information.posted by lauren rachal | 18 september 2009 become a new leaders for new schools principal —transform urban education new leaders for new schools is looking for its next cohort of leaders to train and become principals for public schools in greater new orleans.
the louisiana association of nonprofit organizations wants to know how nonprofits will fill an anticipated gap in leadership amid a wave of ceo and board member retirements expected in coming years.
speakers will include demetria christo of ecourban and george ferris from rescue clean.
implement best practices in  garnering community support.
nine local shelters and rescue groups will be participating in this adoption event: the la/spca, paws, arno, louisiana boxer rescue, gulf coast doberman rescue, the sula foundation, st. francis animal sanctuary, st. bernard parish animal shelter and the jefferson parish animal shelter.
100% of your donation benefits our work in new orleans and across the gulf coast.
the role reports to the regional program director and will have the following main responsibilities: - coach fellows to develop leadership competencies, be effective in school roles, and successfully plan, implement and evaluate their leader impact projects - establish and track fellows’ progress towards growth goals - provide regular written progress and assessment reports on fellows, regarding both professional development and student achievement - engage principals/supervisors to best leverage influence and support for fellows to be effective in their schools - attend fellowship trainings on an as-needed basis - collaborate with principals/supervisors at various stages of leader impact project, including goal-setting and review of progress - analyze roles, specific responsibilities, common issues and challenges of fellows in their schools in order to contribute to more effective work with school leaders and to increase leading educators’ organizational knowledge - support recruitment for future fellowship cohorts by nurturing relationships with school leaders and fellows at school sites - work with the regional program director to develop and refine leading educators’ coaching model and coaching reporting system craft a cover letter explaining your interest in this position, and submit letter and resume tojobs@leadingeducators.org with “leadership coach – kansas city” in the subject line.
manage the customer intake and process, ensuring the customer  transitions through each step of the nola wise program.
the seminar will take place on wednesday, december 8 from 6 – 8:30pm at junior league headquarters, located at 4319 carondelet street.
once the amendment application packet is submitted for review, the city planning commission will arrange a public meeting and publish a notice in a local newspaper of general circulation at least fifteen days in advance of the meeting.
jackie dadakis of clean energy solutions and terri miller and penny sandras of asi federal credit union will be on hand to discuss tax incentives, rebate programs, and green loans that can help you invest in energy and money-saving home improvements.
who should attend: * non-profit staff, board members and volunteers * students and people in academic fields * activists and community organizers * religious leaders * neighborhood association members *
applications due december 15, 2010 or until class is full, so register now!
important: please don’t forget to confirm your vote after you select the tooth bus.
wednesday, may 26th 5:30pm to 7:30 pm green building resource center 841 carondelet street new orleans, la global green events are free and open to the public.
for information or to register: http://www.birthingprojectusa.orgposted by gnof | 12 january 2012 organization: lra education foundation date posted: 1/11/2012 listing expires: 2/10/2012 date needed: 1/11/2011 city: metairie location: louisiana country: united states primary category:
the desire to accelerate social impact and venture development •
registration is open – click here to reserve your seat.
please register to reserve one of the 20 available spaces.
please put program coordinator in the subject line.
compensation: compensation will be based on experience and qualifications.
the intern will work a 40-hour week with many of the assessments being performed on evenings and weekends.
benefits package included.
consider grantwriting!
pleasantly legible handwriting.
please put program assistant in subject line.
csi develops ideas, leadership, and communications strategies to dismantle structural barriers to opportunity for communities of color and increase wellbeing for all.posted by gnof | 6 september 2011 native plant workshop instructor: dr. charles allen grand isle state park saturday, september 17th, 2011 9am-1pm bayou land rc&d council is hosting a free native plant workshop focusing on the native plant communities of grand isle, louisiana.
local experts will walk you through the process of choosing and installing insulation and demonstrate the pros and cons of options like spray foam, batts, and cellulose.
home again, and she has helped me quite a bit with fundraising and grantwriting since i haven’t done that before.
unless otherwise indicated.
there is a preliminary page outlining the logboom kits at http://www.usdemocrats.com/oilspilldefense please call us at 289-637-5353 or email
join musician and national teaching artist marcia daft for a course that will transform the way you think about teaching poetry in your classroom.
this program is able to be presented thanks to the joan mitchell foundation, creative capital and in kind support from the joan mitchell center.
demonstrated ability to “get things done” • strong passion and commitment for the program area in which they plan to work • 100% commitment to the social venture • practical skills, including problem-solving, strategic and organizational abilities • personal integrity 2.
strong editing and  proofreading skills.
winners will be invited to attend the new orleans saints vs. tampa bay buccaneers game on december 27, 2009 where they will be acknowledged for their outstanding service to the community.
http://www.tomatillosnola.com 504-945-9997posted by gnof | 8 april 2010
grant applications are available athttp://www.nikebackyourblock.com.
not sure if you’re a good fit?
hardworking and driven; self starter • ability to connect social entrepreneur to a larger network of resources (preferred) • strong enthusiasm and desire to participate in new orleans’ social entrepreneurship movement • b.a. (required); mba (preferred) stipend: $5,000 over the course of the 10-month new ventures accelerator program anticipated start date: march 2011 to apply: please send resume and cover letter stating your qualifications and interest in supporting early-stage social entrepreneurs to andrea chen at achen@seno-nola.org by feb. 15th, 2011 or earlier.
for booking and general inquiries: 504.525.1052 sponsored by the william winter institute for racial reconciliationposted by gnof | 18 march 2011 fin mccool’s irish pub date: march 19, 2011 time: 12:00 pm address: 3701 banks street new orleans, la 70119
downman rd engine 12 5600  franklin ave engine 17 4115
join me to learn how we can all take action.
by: designing and leading initiatives to improve the region.
the workshop will include a tour of global green’s leed platinum holy cross project, where you can see these techniques in action.
get involved let your constituents know about the conference.
to register: please visit our website, or call us toll free at (866)-704-7268 or (571) 257-8864 you received this e-mail due to your institutional or organizational affiliation.
accelerator consultant responsibilities: • provides strategic consulting and business planning to social entrepreneurs (for-profit/nonprofit/hybrid)
intended to jump-start the careers of 17-25 year-olds, this course will teach participants how to use a content management system to create digital media content.
• supervise flow of invoices and payments to ensure  subcontractors are being paid.
we work with the fellows in a 10-month engagement (jan. 1, 2012-march 31, 2013) to test and implement his/her promising new approach to solving a problem •
the center of attention will be on how to effectively tell the story that leads to funding, be it for the researcher in the sciences and social sciences, educator and non-profit professional.
when: friday, march 18, 2011, 9 am – 12 pm orientation & breakfast: 9 am – 10:30 am | training: 10:30 am – 12 pm where: joan mitchell center, 2275 bayou road gain knowledge and skills in the use of performing arts to help grow young people into successful learners, workers, and leaders.
the tulane tower learning center (ttlc), a collaboration between the youth empowerment project, delgado community college and the criminal district court, grew out of the 2006 crime summit, and was started in 2007 thanks to support from the new orleans city council.posted by gnof | 6 june 2011 held at: tulane university master the techniques of writing superior and winning proposals proposal writing 1: july 6 – 8, 2011 sponsored by:
work within existing organizational structure to communicate mission *
they play a tremendous and critical role in solving our city’s biggest challenges.
get trained in grant writing  and grant assessment.
applications should be postmarked by: july 18, 2011.
nonprofits, foundations, communities and individuals should make their voices heard in our democratic process – alongside business and other private interests.
our programs are designed to foster life-long learning and personal success in the areas of work, recreation and community service.
our executive mentor is carey shea, executive director of project
tuesday, january 25, 6pm – 8pm green building resource center 841 carondelet street new orleans, la 70130 phone: 504-525-2121 professional grant development workshop master the techniques of writing superior and winning proposals january 26 -28, 2011 8:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m.
the rfp information and application form are available on our smc web site athttp://css.loyno.edu/masscomm/request-for-proposalposted by sosnola | 26
collaboration with parents, teachers, and principals allows stair to target the students who can most benefit from the services stair offers.
the more you give, the greater your team’s chance of becoming chew dat champ!
due to limited space, please call to schedule.
chairish the children - sat.
the film follows three remarkable people–the leaders of two scientific investigation teams, and one whistleblower–as they reveal the true story of why new orleans flooded, and why it could happen in other cities across america.
planned giving program •
job description: lead facilitator for rethink clubs (2) coordinate and facilitate two rethink school-based clubs during the 2011-2012 academic year.
after sharing the dream of taking on the mighty mississippi, it was with perfect timing and a little bit of luck that turned wishful thinking into a reality — and an opportunity to help some people in need along the way, donating financial proceeds to the new orleans-based charity.
working closely with the foundation members, commission, and ceo, the chief development officer will pursue and cultivate high-potential major gifts.
the event is december 6 and tickets are $20.
fax a resume to 504-895-4162 attn: hr.
come to this free workshop on indoor water efficiency and moisture management at the green building resource center!
woodland dr engine 18 778 harrison ave engine 24 1040 poland ave engine 25 2430 s carrollton ave engine 27  2118 elysian fields ave engine 35 964 n carrollton ave engine 36 5403  read blvd engine 40 2500 general de gaulle dr common ground relief  1800 deslonde st. sponsored by the jefferson parish animal shelter, jefferson spca, and slva  the following locations will be available in jefferson parish: fire station #11 3535 jefferson hwy (old jefferson) lakeshore  playground 1125 rosa ave (metairie) bright playground 3401 cleary ave  (metairie)
we expect that 75% of the intern’s time will be spent in the field and 25% in the office.
if you would like to buy a ticket, please call 504-822-0800 or email bbecker@fsgno.org.
“this is just a start, and there might be some hiccups along the way,” he said.
interested representatives from your organization are invited to attend, along with former get on board graduates.
• strong understanding of  new media forms to maximize marketing and outreach efforts.
if you would like to enroll, please provide us with the name, phone number and email address for each attendee.
click here to read the entire nofa, and for further information, emailpns@cns.gov or call 202.606.3225.
please call mat schwarzman (504) 858-1855.posted by gnof | 9 february 2011 growing power workshop weekend join our school at blair grocery february 19th – 21st urban workshop series featuring will allen, ceo and founder ofgrowing power registration is extremely limited.
our distinguished honorees for 2009 are: henry and karen coaxum, rafael goyeneche, jim letten, rev. vien the nguyen, ashton ryan, jacqueline sullivan, jose suquet, lizette terral, denise thornton and kathleen waring.
* cox conserves heroes program http://www.coxconservesheroes.com the trust for public land http://www.tpl.org cox enterprises http://www.cox.com
no later than friday, january 13, 2012.
global green usa is offering an epa-certified renovation, repair & painting (rrp) course that will put everyone attending into compliance with federal leadabatement standards.
the answers will be scored and weighted to produce a capacity score and an indication of capacity needs.
it is open every monday, friday, and saturday for tours.
register at http://www.thefundingseed.com.
you must present the pasta with a purpose invitation to your server (available by download athttp://www.la-spca.org).
if you are relentless about seeing disadvantaged students achieve at high levels, this is a chance to build a school that does whatever it takes to ensure college success for all children.
you are invited to a tasting event celebrating the launch of winemaker susie selby’s clean coast wines, which benefit the greater new orleans foundation!
learn how to get involved in the corps and state planning processes from the beginning.
prefer 15 hours per week minimum commitment.
reporting directly to the regional executive director, the pem will assume the following responsibilities: participant recruitment – attraction – support greater kansas city recruitment strategy, by: o planning and conducting outreach visits to target schools and hosting information sessions o researching prospective recruits and nominators o tracking potential candidates and ensuring quality managed response process through salesforce data management software o updating and maintaining an accurate school directory program data management and communications – coordinate participant communications (preparation for training sessions, regional announcements, requests for information, quarterly le community update) – track participant data through meticulous database entry and management – compile and report regularly on participant and program data o run data queries and generate statistical and special reports as requested o ensure completion of participant surveys o manage all participant-specific data within le database system o create clean, visually pleasing, and presentable reports, highlighting trends in data program event planning and management – manage the logistics and operations associated with training events, including but not limited to: problem solving communities, school visits trips, monthly workshops, leader impact project showcases, recruitment and selection events (interview & assessment days and information sessions), an annual best practices conference, and other le community events.
we select social entrepreneurs based on three main criteria: 1.
the tour was conceived by north shore animal league america – the world’s largest no-kill animal rescue and adoption organization – eleven years ago and is responsible for placing thousands of pets into loving and permanent homes.
http://dripnola.com/ http://dutchdialogues.com/ http://www.lulu.com/product/file-download/drip-the-music-of-water-in-new-orleans/14937458 tuesday, june 28th 6pm-8pm 841 carondelet st. new orleans, la 70130
to sustain their efforts, the alston bannerman fellowship gives organizers of color the resources to take three months off for reflection and renewal.
none other requirements: personal vehicle will be required for business related local and regional transport, with mileage reimbursement provided.
our goal is for over 80% of social entrepreneurs in our cohort to reach their top social impact and financial sustainability goals.
attached you will find a copy of the business application due january 3, 2012.
we have packaged the log booms in a kit as follows 1000 feet of log booms for oil spill defense oil log booms to buffer (1000 feet) of beach, marsh and wetland areas from surface oil contamination 88 (eighty eight) pieces of lodgepole pine logs average length 15 feet x 10 inches diameter logs are predrilled, plated and chains are provided for easy linking n or alternate configuration twenty (20) pieces of log booms (fifty feet log lengths) to be strung in a single line to protect 1000 feet of shoreline these logs can be also towed by boat for use as surface oil skimming this packaged kit includes point to point delivery by rail from the pacific northwest and transfer by tractor trailer to local point of delivery equipment, logistics and labor for unloading by qualified, licensed, insured and bonded forestry industry operators to the local point of delivery at waterfront
general registration is now open.
yep is looking to hire a full-time development and communications coordinator.
this fun-filled event provides seniors with useful information, answers to questions, a chance to interact with city officials and departments, entertainment, lunch, prizes, and a great time!
the volunteer-run volunteer organization perhaps the most unique component to one brick’s approach is that each chapter within the organization is run entirely by volunteers!
we should know more this june.
we’ll discuss how to get involved with the nola wise program, the process of screening and hiring a home energy rater, what energy efficiency measures you might install, and how you can reduce your project cost by accessing incentives.
, epno gives young leaders itchin’ to improve new orleans the opportunity to get educated on philanthropic giving, and to allocate some serious cash to local organizations making serious change.
we appreciate your help in getting the word out.posted by global green usa | 4 march 2011
tickets may be purchased online here.
matter l3c’s first product, birdproject, is a black bird-shaped biodiesel soap with a white ceramic keepsake inside whose profits go towards wetland restoration.
the 610 stompers, the energetic and entertaining all-male dance group, will make a special appearance and perform their extraordinary dance routine.
for more information about the americorps vista program, visit http://www.americorps.gov/for_individuals/choose/vista.asp.
for more information on this and past events, please contact vincent fedeli at our green building resource center:vfedeli@globalgreen.org, and see our website here:http://globalgreen.org/bibg/calendar/. visit global green’s blog to find out what build it back green is up tohttp://globalgreen.org/blogs/posted by homes for our birds | 12 june 2010 you can visit our website at http://www.homesforourbirds.org thanks again for your support and any informationposted by homes for our birds | 12 june 2010
demonstrated ability to work individually and as part of a hard working, creative team.
our committee has put together an exciting evening of lively entertainment featuring celebrity dancers and vince vance and the valiants, delicious food and libations, as well as enticing silent and live auctions.
the capacity building program is specifically designed to enhance the organizational capacity of local nonprofits addressing the broad economic recovery issues in central city, so they can better serve residents in need.
hours: approximately 15 hrs/week when school is in session plus training.
the vast majority of the youngsters served would not receive dental care if it were not available through our tooth buses.
founded shortly after hurricane katrina made landfall in louisiana, ldrf awarded more than $40 million dollars in grants to more than 200 organizations to support recovery efforts associated with hurricanes katrina, rita, gustav, ike and the bp oil spill.
extensive experience in financial management.
urban critic and journalist roberta brandes gratz contradicts this conventional view.
a creative mind, energetic spirit, engaging personality, and hard worker.
no explosions, no fires, no deaths and no environmental problems.
assists in producing materials, articles and other pieces in support of the program • provides support for a planned gifts committee by preparing the meeting space, taking meeting notes and producing minutes and other documentation as needed 4.
in addition to consulting and services seno has provided, the program also gives you an opportunity to meet with peers.
award nomination information the gulfsouth youth action fund, a new orleans-based initiative that engages youth as leaders and empowers them with the resources to make strategic investments in their peers and their communities, is seeking nominations for the 2009 youth change maker awards.
call 454-7930 to make a reservation or visithttp://www.la-spca.org for more information.posted by lori haeuser | 16 april 2010 may 8th an adoption option, sponsored by the la/spca will be held at jefferson feed, located at 4421 jefferson hwy., from 11:00-3:00.
127 or gjackson@kingsleyhouse.org help children’s hospital secure funding for our tooth bus program.
the stair program provides each child with professionally-designed curriculum materials, school supplies, teaching aids, healthy snacks, and trained site directors to supervise and lend qualified help at each site.
the junior league of new orleans is currently conducting its third get on board session, a community initiative that trains and places individuals interested in nonprofit board service with local nonprofit boards.
special knowledge: excellent communication, interpersonal, organizational and writing skills.
make fabulous new friends.
throughout the months of march and april, tour for life 2011 will travel the length of the united states from north to south and east to west, helping over 100 shelter and rescue groups to bring awareness to their organizations and find homes for orphaned pets in their care.
for more information on tour for life 2011 visit http://www.animalleague.org/tourforlife2011posted by cory sparks | 24 march 2011 presented by greater giving free for lano members/$20 for non-members
we’ll discuss how to get involved with the nola wise program, common problems in new orleans’ homes and what nolawise can do to help through the process of contractor selection, and reducing your project cost by accessing incentives.
right under the  law; it is your organization’s responsibility to the individuals and communities it serves.”
“she has built an organization that began as a small support group for parents of incarcerated children into a force for change in louisiana.
new tech early college high school winter concert friday, december 16, 2011 | 6:30 pm lake area new tech early college high school theatre black box 6026 paris avenue, new orleans please join us for a festive evening of song, as lake area new tech early college high school’s varsity choir, ladies choir, and jazz voices perform traditional holiday selections.
bachelor’s degree in a relevant field and prior foundation or non-profit development experience is required.
accomplishments in these areas of responsibility and in abiding by affirmative action/eoe laws and requirements, when appropriate, will be the basis of the employee’s evaluation, continuation of employment and change of compensation.
applications are still being accepted, for both participants (only 5 spots left) and non-profits, so register now!posted by julia | 5 january 2011 collective impact:
if you know a nonprofit that might be interested in a free copier and/or fax machine please let me know by wednesday may 19.
you can download the overview that highlights key findings, the complete data trends analysis, seven full essays on major post-katrina reforms, and two background papers on the new orleans economy athttp://www.gnocdc.orgposted by angelina williams | 24 july 2010 i noticed that only $50,000 is available for this first round and that the grants would be $20,000-$25,000.
chalstrom house, st. andrew’s episcopal church, 1101 south carrollton ave.,
the advocacy intern will work with senior staff on initiatives including state and local energy policy, developing a green economy (jobs, industry), water management issues, and possibly green building/green schools.
a new musical play by, for and about youth wednesday, february 16, 2011 6:00 – 7:30 pm goodwill industries, 3400 tulane avenue, new orleans free please join us for an evening of live original musical theater about the ambitions and obstacles of young people today.
sign up for the next info session here»
most of our students will be the first intheir families to earn a college degree, therefore your guidance on how to navigate the pathway to and through college is critical.
• liaise with technical staff on client follow ups  and maintaining high customer service standards.
the purpose of the new orleans children and youth planning board is (1) to participate in the formulation and preparation of a comprehensive plan for services and programs for children and youth of new orleans; (2) to assist in the development, implementation and operation of services which encourage positive development, diversion of children and youth from the criminal justice and foster care system, reduction in the commitments of youth to state institutions; and (3) provide community response to the growing rate of juvenile delinquency.
a car  or bicycle would suffice.
nola wise, in partnership with the city of new orleans, southeast energy  alliance, and the department of energy’s better buildings program,  focuses on residential energy efficiency upgrades through bank and incentive  financing, in conjunction with trained contractors and knowledgeable green  building advisors.
the lano annual conference lets nonprofits of every size and mission turn efficiency into effectiveness, with new knowledge, skills and networking opportunities.
justification for the change(s) within the context of the master plan is the responsibility of the applicant.
the new orleans healing center 2372 saint claude avenue register at http://www.thefundingseed.com.
• pro-bono professionals will be customized to each social entrepreneur and may occur in areas such as legal, financial management, quantifying impact, fundraising, accounting, communications, back-office, marketing, and social media.
please contact polly campbell to rsvp: (504) 554-7134
focusing on developing in each pupil an appreciation of the art of theater as part of general culture; teaching techniques of theatrical expression; discovering and developing talents of pupils in the field of theater; developing knowledge and skills in critiquing theater; and, developing traits of respect, responsibility and dedication.
please send a resume and cover letter with two (or more) professional  references totmonaghan@buildnownola.com.
funders panel on public policy investment “advocacy is the most effective tool you can use to achieve your organization’s goals and bring about lasting change and social justice for everyone.
for more information, give us a call at (504) 525-2121 or e-mail lwhite@globalgreen.org. http://globalgreen.org/bibg/calendar/posted by elise gallinot | 12 october 2011 how can you help students change their reading and writing from a plodding monotone voice to an expressive voice?
position reports to the program associate of nola wise.
tom’s of maine, a maker of oral hygiene products, is offering to donate $20,000 to five national mobile dental health programs.
going green, a specially curated collection of films that  highlight the impact we all have on the environment, and our shared  responsibility for the planet’s future.
since its inception, the gyaf has awarded more than $20,000 to initiatives that empower and train a young generation of community leaders.
• knowledge  of energy efficiency building science.
complete position details availablehere or under  program development in the resources section of our website.
ncati service families by providing tutoring, homework assistance, disciplined-based arts, and more.
we’d love it if you followed us on twitter: gnofoundation.
learn how to maximize profits, mitigate risks and manage environmental compliance issues • network with government officials, f500 companies & industry leaders • dialogue with thought leaders who are guiding the emergence of the green economy • attorneys and aia members earn continuing education credits over 80 luminary speakers 35 sessions high profile keynotes addresses 4 tracks check it out!
for updated information on this and archived past panel discussions, please see our global green website here:http://globalgreen.org/events/13 or contact heidi jensen at our green building resource center:hjensen@globalgreen.org ________________________________________ dear friends in the non-profit field, asi recently upgraded the copiers and fax machines at some of our branches.
each screen print reflects a memory of new orleans.
coveted saints vs falcon tickets are up for grabs in a raffle presented by findargyle.com.
strong editing and proofreading skills.
groups will meet in the canal garden.
and, what makes collective impact work?
member duties : partnerships:
to apply, please email resume and cover letter to: nolahr@globalgreen.org.
funders panel on  public policy investment “advocacy is the most effective tool you can use to achieve your  organization’s goals and bring about lasting change and social  justice for everyone.
rsvp by august 5th to reuben detiege ii @ reuben.elca2012@gmail.com or contact sabrina short 504.376.7272 with questions.
more information can be found here: http://neworleans.craigslist.org/npo/2202417437.html please send a resume and cover letter to jane at jane@all4energy.org by march 4th.posted by jim pittman | 24 february 2011 congratulations to chef john besh and gno foundation!
a place where resiliency, dedication and fraternity has shown the world and the nation that any hardships can be overcome and success is accomplished by working together.
more than 150 workshops, 11 immersion learning sessions and  7 forums will be offered at the conference, in focus areas ranging from  disaster to youth leadership.
it is important for youth to be involved in the creation of this proposal.
following the presentation, a panel of local social entrepreneurs will share their experiences and challenges.
according to stanford social innovation review collective impact article authors john kania and mark kramer, success in collective impact involves a coalescing of five specific conditions: a common agenda to solve a specific social problem, shared measurement systems, mutually reinforcing activities, continuous communication, and a ‘backbone’ organization to coordinate the overall initiative.
friendly, leashed, dogs welcome on the side lawn.
a successful applicant will: - possess excellent organizational skills, written skills, and verbal skills - demonstrate competence in project and time management, as well as the ability to prioritize and meet deadlines - be detail-oriented with strong multi-tasking skills - have experience managing multiple aspects of complex multi-faceted projects - possess management / supervisory experience - have, at minimum, a bachelors degree and three years of work experience (in the construction and/or non-profit industries preferred) - demonstrate proven leadership, financial acumen, and strong people skills - be a team player who is willing to pitch in and help with everything from picking up trash on job sites to fundraising efforts - be fluent with microsoft word, excel, and power point, and have a working knowledge of quickbooks - be self-motivated, a quick thinker, and a creative, adept problem-solver start date: no later than 5/1/2011.
working conditions: office setting
as the need for active capital and endowment  campaigns is determined; the development assistant will assist in all  activities related to the campaigns and will be responsible for setting up  meeting spaces, taking committee meeting notes and preparing the minutes; and  by providing the documentation necessary as determined by the director of  development for those meetings and campaigns.
-3-5 years experience in non-profit development/operations work -experience working on successful fundraising campaigns -working knowledge microsoft word/excel and development software -excellent communication skills -excellent ability to manage and cultivate relationships -ability to both work independently and with close oversight competitive compensation plan commensurate with experience.
nola wise, in  partnership with the city of new orleans, southeast energy alliance, and the  department of energy’s better buildings program, focuses on residential  energy efficiency upgrades through bank and incentive financing, in conjunction  with trained contractors and knowledgeable green building advisors.
application acceptance: all applicants are required to bring in one copy of the application package for informal review by a staff planner, prior to the formal application to ensure that the application is complete.
for the past two years, the city of new orleans (with the help of the greater new orleans community data center) has successfully challenged the annual census estimates, resulting in a 75,000 person adjustment to the city’s population.
call 504.523.1357, x206 for more information.posted by claire | 24 august 2009
departing in may from northern minnesota, the duo will spend 2-3 months camping  on riverbanks, avoiding perils of life on the water, and raising awareness for  friends of the fishermen, an organization dedicated to assisting louisiana  fishermen affected by the 2010 deepwater horizon oil spill.
each clinic will include a presentation by an expert in the field, and facilitated break-out sessions to brainstorm the application of a new strategy or approach to individual organizations.
village website.posted by gnof | 17 january 2012
there will be signature drinks courtesy of 360 vodka, music and fun for all.
>program description: rethink clubs in six new orleans schools challenge youth to think critically about and become engaged in the world they know best: their own school.
http://www.nationalalgaeassociation.composted by vincent fedeli | 24 may 2010 global green’s
and demolition-heavy ways.
applicants submitting successful concept papers will be invited to submit full applications.
does your job require you to raise funds for your department or position?
• effective communicator, program marketing skills, and creative problem-solver.
invite family & friends and host a table.
right under the law; it is your organization’s responsibility to the individuals and communities it serves.”
every year, more than 900 foreign exchange students spend a year or a semester studying at american high schools through the pax-program of academic exchange.
please state “director of donor relations position” in the subject line of your email.
please rsvp: jessica@theneworleansinstitute.orgposted by sarah huard | 7 april 2010
• knowledge of techniques necessary for effective community outreach and organizing around important social, political and economic issues.
sincerely, sandra moore president, urban strategies if you’ve always wanted to take a peek inside some of our incredible old homes or are looking for a great place to house your next passle of relatives, “beds to read inn” is a tour of 5 homes along esplanade ridge that will benefit the great cause of literacy.
rsvps requested by october 20. join us and support global green in new orleans!posted by makiyah | 18 october 2011 participate in a special mentoring program through kipp renaissance that supports our students’ dreams to attain a college education!
this training is recommended for anyone who works on renovations, retrofits and upgrades to residential buildings.
light refreshments served at 5:30 pm, with our panel presentation beginning at 6:00 pm.
the executive director provides strategic leadership and vision for esy nola, represents the program to all donors, prospective donors, media, and partners, and is responsible for the general oversight and management of the program and its growth, including development and oversight of annual budget and finances.
rsvp is one of three corporation programs operated by senior corps, which taps the skills, talents, and experience of nearly 500,000 americans age 55 and over to meet a wide range of community challenges.
please make all submissions by june 1, 2011.
organization description: kids rethink new orleans schools (rethink) embodies an idea that is proving to be as dynamic as it is simple: give young people – even those as young as middle school – a voice in the reform of public education.
from 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. monday through friday, each center will provide the following services: student enrollment information * transcript and records requests * conflict resolution * up-to-date school information * parenting skills literature * community resource literature more locations and services, such as centralized enrollment and transportation systems, will be added in coming months, according to superintendent white.
newcomb art gallery woldenberg art center tulane university new orleans, la 70118 504-865-5328 related programming to be held in freeman auditorium, woldenberg art center friday, may 13, 7 pm aliens are coming, a multi-media lecture by performance artist josé torres-tama saturday, may 14, 3-5 pm the history of the future, beyond the border of mexico and the us, a panel discussion with michael berman, julián cardona, writers charles bowden and yuri herrera-gutierrez, and curator nancy sutor new orleans
learn more about how you can apply this time-saving tool to your professional advancement by joining us for this free orientation!
the movie tulane university 7 pm sunday february 20 9 am introductions and tour of osbg noon lunch 1 pm workshops 5 pm dinner on your own 7 pm presentation by will allen (tulane university) monday february 21 (president’s day)
this position has opportunities for in-depth  training in green rebuilding.
fluency workshop $25 registration fee includes sound writing poster and poetry pouch.
oilspilldefense@usdemocrats.com
two days of intensive hands-on boot camp covers everything from learning grants-related terminology to actually writing the critical high-point review sections of a sure to win grant proposal narrative.
if you have questions about this program, please contact us at info@seno-nola.org, and we will get back to you right away.posted by nora ellertsen, the funding seed | 31 january 2012 february non-profit workshop: creating a powerful fundraising plan thursday, february 9 4:00-6:00 p.m.
for more information or to register, go to http://events.constantcontact.com/register/event?llr=t8a5exbab&oeidk=a07e51nupov99297f9dposted by marion strauss | 11 october 2011 shared housing of new orleans needs a volunteer to provide outreach talks to small community groups, in order to keep our pool of referrals active.posted by gnof | 11 october 2011 firstline schools in 1998, firstline schools started the first charter school in new orleans, which became the highest performing middle school in the city.
- the creative arts/communications change maker award (ages 7-18) will honor an outstanding young person leading the way in the field of media, the arts or communications.
shop and party your way throughout the green light distict, then join the crowd at bridge lounge for a signature green dat cocktail!
the rethinkers were invited to make a presentation before a panel of judges at the regional competition in houston, texas – and they won!
access to capital: the idea village provides entrepreneurs access to local lending institutions, angel investor networks and venture capital investors through one on one meetings and competitive challenges.
the map is a document stating the concrete deliverables from the executive consultant (financial analysis, market research, business plan, etc.) and the goals and milestones that the social entrepreneur will meet • provides assistance in relation to top three measurable goals: assistance falls in the categories of new venture design and planning (strategic planning, business planning, financial analysis, market research and analysis, fund development) and new venture implementation (marketing, operations, networking, etc.)
the gyaf request for proposals is attached.
compensation: $25/hr start date: orientation retreat august 25-26.
for questions or to request discount codes, email info@thefundingseed.com.
follow a young african american woman as she decides between staying in college or joining the freedom riders and the 1960s civil rights movement.
americans spend 90% of their time indoors, so make sure that your home is giving your family the best air it can!
my seno consultant was a professional who had a skill set that i didn’t have and someone that i trusted.
youth empowerment project’s village program is an innovative approach to ensuring that out-of-school youth ages 16-18 receive the educational and individualized, wrap-around supportive services necessary to successfully receive their ged and move onto post-secondary education or the workforce.
posted by gnof | 22 march 2011 holy cross boys school 1:30 pm – registration | 2:00 pm –  presentation 5500 paris ave., new orleans, la 70122 (504) 942-3100 speakers: darrell scott, president and founder of  rachel’s challenge bud brown, president and general manager of wwl  – tv join us and many other new orleans educators and community leaders to hear  how you can partner with rachel’s challenge and wwl-tv and start a chain  reaction of kindness and compassion.
many people credit new york’s master builder robert moses with turning gotham around, despite his brutal, undemocratic.
accounting for receivables and payables as required.
join the la/spca by the boathouse at thebig lake from 2-7pm on saturday, october 1.
to date, more than 30,000 families have been directly  impacted by the oil spill, and it remains the largest in united states history.
please send the names of the individuals who will attend the training session from your organization to sydney.moore@urbanstrategiesinc.org.posted by j. din hurt | 23 june 2010 after having used up oyster shells for trivial pieces for a long time i now find my self in a bind.
our schools are led by instructional leaders who hold themselves accountable for student achievement and teacher development.
• maintain and troubleshoot psd client management and reporting database.
to sponsor “from symphony to jazz to kids” or for ticket information, contact phyllis landrieu at 504-523-1193 orplandrieu@cox.net.posted by anita calagna | 2 june 2010 murals for healing–our agency is looking for volunteer artists to paint murals in two places for children of domestic violence and sexual assault.posted by martha | 28 may 2010 investing in children a summit on early childhood development and its impact on building prosperous and healthy communities june 1-3, 2010 loyola university presented by louisiana children’s museum and tulane institute of infant and early childhood mental health
pets should be 12 weeks or older to receive the vaccination.
we want to hear from you and likewise keep you in the loop with kiva nola news and happenings!posted by gnof | 4 november 2011 friday, november 11th 1:00 pm – 3:30 pm new orleans mission 1130 oretha castle haley, new orleans
stop by our global green table in front of branch out, 2022 magazine street, for organic wines and refreshment from our generous friends at whole foods market and atchafalaya restaurant, and the official debut of our new nola green dat t-shirt.
green building resource center wednesday, june 16th 5:30pm to 7:30pm 841 carondelet street new orleans, la global green events are free and open to the public.
if you are or know of a young person who fits these and the following criteria, please fill out and return a nomination form.
apply today to fund youth-led projects!
we would like to continue to grow our community and raise awareness for local new orleans entrepreneurs while also sharing stories and successes of current kiva nola borrowers.
curated by the visual arts department.
“as a pet owner, i know the love that animals bring into our lives and homes,” said country music legend and tour for life 2011 spokesperson, wynonna judd.
they have fewer pages per minute, however, than those bigger machines.
enjoy great food & libations, live music, a special student presentation, celebrity guests, a silent auction and raffle.
the tour was conceived by north shore  animal league america – the world’s largest no-kill animal rescue  and adoption organization – eleven years ago and is responsible for  placing thousands of pets into loving and permanent homes.
the village social worker (vsw) is a full-time position with the youth empowerment project (yep).
• executive mentors and seno will help participants make timely “people connections” to help the social entrepreneur build a larger network of supporters and resources.
as tutors, mentors and role models, these diverse young leaders make a difference in the lives of children and transform schools and neighborhoods across the united states and in south africa.posted by sara woodard, exec.
the concert is the first of its kind to celebrate the rhythms so essential to our city.
we would love to see you host a jane’s walk in your greater new orleans neighborhood?
for more information, contact laney white at lwhite@globalgreen.orgposted by gnof | 5 april 2011 wyes is pleased to debut its latest national series, chef john besh’s new orleans, which will air here saturdays at 9:30am and sundays at 2pm .
yep’s founders started the organization in 2004 in order to assist young people returning to new orleans from correctional facilities.
develops and presents written reports to board of directors at regularly scheduled meetings, and as needed.
“we are building upon the lessons learned from ldrf as we go forward as the foundation for louisiana,” stated foundation vice president eric d. shaw.
-collect and maintain appropriate information about rethink club participants.
tess has also had experience doing many of the things i’m facing for the first time, like our project timeline.
tuesday, november 29th 6pm-8pm green building resource center 841 carondelet street when: saturday, november 19th 8:30 to 9:00 am kick off ceremony and volunteer deployment 11:00 am to 1:00 pm best viewing of playground construction 1:00 to 2:30 pm final construction phase and adjustments 2:30 to 3:00 pm ribbon-cutting ceremony to dedicate new play area (note: all times approximate)
mike murphy of artisan solar will discuss different system options, net metering, installation, and determining what wattage is right for your home.
get involved let your constituents know about the  conference.
instructions: go to https://www.surveymonkey.com/s/c2espring2012 to access the survey; which will take approximately 10-15 minutes to complete.
participants will receive tools they can take back to their organizations and put to work immediately.
the first deadline to apply is october 15, 2009.
when to apply and process: in 2011, the amendment application period will close on august 5.
past areas of need included business planning, market analysis, financial management, and executive coaching.
please help us make sure that as many program providers as possible are represented in this important survey!
demonstrate that one’s proposal merits excellence and innovation 10.
learn  philanthropy skills.
learn more for a dynamic, meaningful learning  experience, the national conference on volunteering and service offers multiple  types of sessions.
the gsyac is a specialty service-learning camp designed to engage 400 urban middle school youth in meaningful service-learning activities.
and yes, there’s always room for more people to join the team!posted by kids rethink new orleans schools | 19 april 2010 kids rethink new orleans schools – rethink, for short – is a network of students “rethinking” their schools.
southern eagle has sponsored complimentary cab rides after the event to ensure all attendees get home safely.
we assemble a team for each social entrepreneur made up of an accelerator consultant, executive mentor, and pro-bono professionals (legal, marketing, financial, etc.)
new orleans city council members arnie fielkow and kristin palmer, as well as james letten, the u.s. attorney for the eastern district of louisiana, have confirmed they will attend the grand opening.
nonprofit organization slots remain for the fall 2010 program.
connecting donors to community needs.
to purchase tickets to the event, contact jermaine smith at 504-940-2727.posted by nick harris | 27 september 2010 dillard university cdc will host a workshop on applying for your 501c(3) irs status.
for more information, please visit http://www.esynola.org.
tour for life’s presenting sponsors are purina one® and purina  one® beyond pet food brands; the tour is also supported by the american  mutt-i-grees® club.
select entrepreneurs will be chosen to present at new orleans entrepreneur week, march 10-16, 2012.
this was the program that replaced all our production equipment after katrina.
i am new to the process of writing grants.
fflic’s successes include sweeping reforms that closed two juvenile prisons.
http://www.dineamerica2010.com/posted by vincent fedeli | 16 november 2010 typically, in new orleans, more than half of the energy bill goes towards heating and cooling your house.
the center also enrolls the children’s parents (many just children themselves) helping them to do the same.
for walls, a native of flint and social relations/environmental economic senior, it was the sheer desire for adventure that inspired a trip of this magnitude.
programming from pbs.
session will be held at the following date, time and location: new orleans tuesday, july 12 3:00 pm – 4:30 pm next level empowerment center 4700 freret street new orleans, la 70115
upon successful completion of the course, jlno matches participants with a local nonprofit for board of director’s participation and further training.
in collaboration with tiziana filippini, head of pedagogy, reggio emilia, italy wheelock college harvard university lesley university tufts university sponsored by colin and alma powell legacy award fund j p morgan chase bank tulane institute of infant and early childhood mental health united way’s women’s leadership council to register, please visithttp://www.lcm.org or call 504-586-0725, ext.
the vsw will report directly to the village program director/senior social worker.
april 26th, 6pm-8pm for more information, contact laney white at lwhite@globalgreen.org posted by gnof | 20 april 2011 snagfilms earth day 2011 this week, over a billion people will celebrate the 41st annual earth day,  the largest secular civic event in the world.
this continues the tradition of promoting positive images of our city and region to the entire nation with previous cooking series like those of justin wilson, chef paul prudhomme, the great chefs, breakfast from new orleans and many others.posted by gnof | 30 march 2011 position: director of operations reports to: executive director the build now foundation, a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization constructing new homes in new orleans’ flooded neighborhoods, seeks a director of operations.
green the gras entry requirements to apply, please submit an online written proposal of no more than 500 words for a solution to a mardi gras-related problem.
we have many qualified equipment and human resources in the forestry sector in the pacific northwest who are readily available to assist immediately.
no experience necessary.
only a few organization slots remain for the spring 2010 program.
tours include explanations of all the green materials and systems included in the home, such as reclaimed wood floors, energy star appliances, green roof, solar power, geo-thermal, and more.
(pre-registration required.)
salary range $25,000-30,000.
st. paul’s united methodist church, 6500 jefferson highway, harahan saturday, september 26 9:00 – 11:00 a.m.
more than 150 workshops, 11 immersion learning sessions and 7 forums will be offered at the conference, in focus areas ranging from disaster to youth leadership.
for more information, please contact heidi jensen:hjensen@globalgreen.org, or wee our website: http://www.globalgreen.orgposted by linzy roussel cotaya | 16 september 2010
“no one can find what will work for our cities by looking at suburban garden cities, manipulating scale models, or inventing dream cities.
proceeds will benefit global green, an organization whose leadership has been indispensable in rebuilding a green and sustainable city.
wise is an exciting new energy efficiency, job creation and financing program to help new orleanians live comfortably, save energy, and save money.
accelerator has helped me accelerate the progress of my venture.
it’s like having two people.
and help his or her cause.
time is crucial and it’s so unfair that all the animals don’t know any better and are getting oiled and many dying and most of them suffering until death.
for additional information please visit http://www.puentesno.org please submit cover letter and resume, no later than january 20, 2012, preferably by email to edsearch@puentesno.org or to: puentes new orleans, inc. attention: search committee 1050 s. jefferson davis parkway suite #316 new orleans, la. 70125 dear community based organizations: the connect2educate collaborative invites you to be a part of the spring 2012 connect2educate
the intern must have his/her own means of transportation as public transportation is lacking in our neighborhood.
the director will: * manage all programs & finances *
date: saturday, october 22, 2011 time: 8:30 am registration, service 9:00 am -1:00 pm where: 13435 granville street, new orleans, la 70129 service includes: gardening, landscaping & light construction lunch will be provided preregister at https://sites.google.com/site/cityyearneworleans/ for more information contact: bethany housman at 504-208-0553 or bhousman@cityyear.org did you know that indoor air is almost always more polluted than the air outside?
experience working for a governmental or nonprofit org is a plus but not required.
news who should attend?
on october 5, a number of local organizations will hold a board of elementary and secondary education (bese) candidate forum for districts 1 and 2.
some gulf state ideas that have been submitted to dateposted by gnof | 13 july 2010 program purpose: urban strategies inc.’s (urban) nonprofit capacity building program (capacity building program or program) is generally designed to strengthen the ability of nonprofits to address economic recovery for the nonprofit, the clients that they serve and the community.
• effective communicator,  program marketing skills, and creative problem-solver.
we are taking donations at http://www.gulfoildonations.composted by lori haeuser | 12 june 2010 june 17th
this event is organized by the congress for the new urbanism and the claiborne corridor improvement coalition, with support from the ford foundation, the greater new orleans foundation, the louisiana endowment for the humanities, tulane university’s school of architecture, and university of new orleans’ merritt c. becker jr. transportation institute.
for those interested in attending, either in person or by phone, please rsvp to charterschools@ed.gov.
this is the first time that creative capital’s workshop will be held in new orleans.
organization description project home again is a small, private nonprofit organization that was created by the leonard and louise riggio foundation immediately after hurricane katrina to provide new homes for homeowners who had lost their homes in the flood.
the december membership drive was better than last year’s, perhaps indicating the slow continuing improvement in the economy.
eoe.posted by terri j. brown | 4 may 2011 position location: new orleans, la reports to: director of development primary function:
this summer, in addition to completing another 30 homes, the organization will be working on three distinct efforts: the green home sustainability program, a grassroots anti-blight project, and homeowner selection.
the c2e notebook provides “snapshot profiles” of local community based organizations whose resources are available to the public school community of new orleans, including school leadership and staff as well as students, parents and caregivers.
• strong understanding of new media forms to maximize marketing and outreach efforts.
getting to meet and work with thirty-five of the brightest, most dedicated go-getters our age in new orleans.
beat the heat, work outside, fix and replace awnings.
yep’s mission is: by providing case management and educational services to court-involved, at-risk and out-of-school new orleans youth, yep will strengthen each young person’s capacity to successfully connect with their families and communities and lay the foundation for their healthy transition to adulthood.
according to the epa, more than one million children in the us are affected by lead poisoning from paint every year.
job qualifications 1.
generate revenue through fundraising/resource development * lead & implement strategic plan & philanthropic objectives *
in collaboration with the board develops organizational priorities.
the rabies vaccination drive is made possible by the louisiana spca, southeast louisiana veterinary association, city of new orleans health dept., city of new orleans fire dept., sewerage and water board of new orleans, jefferson parish animal shelter, and jefferson spca.
ample, free on-street parking.
the score generated from the capacity assessment will serve as the baseline through the life of the program and will qualify the organization to participate in one-on-one technical assistance, group training sessions, competitive financial assistance awards or some combination based on the need evidenced by the capacity score.
research green building materials/techniques/design; training: identify energy efficiency trainings for staff and vistas; obtain training on green building materials/techniques/design; workshops: develop content for and deliver community workshops on utility saving methods; survey collection: maintain paper filing system for client surveys; categorize survey respondents according to need; follow up: provide technical assistance to homeowners on energy efficiency; at-home consults: schedule and conduct home energy consults for homeowners; weatherization:
come enjoy food and music, plant seeds, and learn more about rethink.
if you are a qualified applicant and interested in pursuing this position, please send a resume, cover letter and short writing sample (1-2) pages to donna wolf atdwolf@youthempowermentproject.org.
applicants should be able to climb ladders, perform exterior assessments in the summer heat of a semi-tropical environment, etc.
this seminal four hour program is open to the public for a $10 donation.
we will introduce the 2012 water challenge entrepreneurial class, which the idea village is managing with the support of the greater new orleans foundation, and will host a dialogue on clean energy and green businesses that are investing in the region with business leaders from throughout new orleans and the gulf region.
meraux, la 70075 or call 554-7134.posted by gnof | 13 december 2011 lake area
as you may know, each year since 2009, the c2e collaborative has published the c2e notebook, a 122-page guide detailing more than 100 community resource providers whose programming is offered to public schools, public school students and their families.
so please register early!
thursday, april 22 6-8 p.m.
need a private place to screen for financial assistance and other services offered by our program.
our club facilitators teach deep listening, public speaking and critical thinking.
• basic computer skills including email, databases,  excel, and google.
the return of masterpiece “downton abbey” has been the latest pbs program to gather lots of attention.
for this reason, una-usa, new orleans designs programs that train a new generation of thinking leaders, writers, and researchers that extend beyond borders.
it strives to present clear thinking by knowledgeable observers on important issues, written in english that can be read with ease and pleasure by both professionals and a broad general audience.
in partnership, c2e collaborative the trumpet’s first issue of 2012, being released on january 18, is focusing on new orleans’ seventh ward neighborhood with the theme of “the forgotten neighborhoods.”
since that time, asii has successfully processed eight loans for new orleans small businesses, totaling more than $145,000.
yep will contact candidates they are interested in interviewing.posted by vincent fedeli | 11 january 2011
interested in improving the energy efficiency of your home but not sure how to finance the upgrades?
very special thanks to our good friends at whole foods market and ste.
apply: qualified applicants should submit a resume and brief cover letter describing their interest in this position via email tonolahr@globalgreen.org.
other sponsors: avenue pub, bayou teche brewing, canal st. veterinary hospital, delta world tire, faux pas prints, eastbank cycle, lagers, lazy magnolia, mystic krewe of brew, nola brewing company, nola misting company, the king pin, the velvet cactus, tin roof brewing, zapp’s, where y’at.
thursday, april 21 8pm et – expedition blue planet with alexandra cousteau 9pm et – sola: louisiana water stories with filmmaker jon bowermaster friday, april 22 8pm et – burning ice with filmmaker david buckland link: http://www.biglive.com/snagfilms note: the link won’t be live until right before the event.posted by gnof | 14 april 2011
tickets: $50, tables: $1000, sponsor a parent or teacher: $25 for more information on sponsor levels and tickets email adaliet@sosnola.org or call 504.416.3146.posted by makayla counselman | 26 march 2010 operation reach,
working in partnership with public, nonprofit and private entities, gchp will create vibrant, high-quality communities which are socially and economically integrated, affordable and sustainable.
does this herald a new time in the planning of new orleans, where residents, businesses, institutions and neighborhoods will be more directly engaged in the land use decisions that affect their lives?
• mentors sign a commitment form at https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/viewform?formkey=dennthe1efddm2owav9uanvfnel5v0e6mq for more information about the mentoring program, see details below.
please visit our website here: http://www.globalgreen.org/nola for more information and to purchase tickets.
see you there!posted by laura crochet | 13 october 2009 conference early-bird registration is extended through friday, october 16.
they are not only about architecture and heritage, but also offer a personal take on the local culture, the social history and the planning issues faced by the residents.
areas of responsibility the executive director is responsible for: strategic management and development fundraising external relations: visible leader to communicate the mission of esy nola to multiple audiences talent and program management position requirements education & experience skills & other requirements reports to: this position reports to the ceo of firstline schools, and works closely with the esy nola taskforce, esy nola staff, and firstline schools’ director of development and director of external affairs and community initiatives.
again is an equal opportunity employer that does not discriminate against people on the grounds of gender, race, religion, sexual orientation, disability or marital status.
this summit will present the actions we can do ourselves.posted by song | 18 march 2010 dear community members, jjpl’s youth group, young adults striving for success is hosting a 2010 youth summit on saturday, march 27 at hope academy, 2437 jena st. (at the intersection of freret and napoleon)
the 2010 census cannot be challenged.
the discounts are good on these items that you buy at either or both macy’s stores and on line shopping.
convened by points of light institute and the corporation for national and  community service, the annual event provides attendees with an opportunity to  learn, connect and be inspired through a wide range of exciting and informative  plenary sessions, workshops, special events, service projects, exhibits,  specialized corporate tracks and more.
the development assistant reports to the director of development.
for questions, to inquire about discount codes or to reserve your seat and pay at the door, email info@thefundingseed.com.
director type of position: full-time education requirement: bachelor’s experience requirement: 3-5 years description & details louisiana restaurant association education foundation seeks an experienced director with a strong background in development and philanthropy.
departing in may from northern minnesota, the duo will spend 2-3 months camping on riverbanks, avoiding perils of life on the water, and raising awareness for friends of the fishermen, an organization dedicated to assisting louisiana fishermen affected by the 2010 deepwater horizon oil spill.
24 august 2009 get ready to recycle your cash, reuse your credit cards and renew your fun!
native now: “larval hosts for butterflies and moths” saturday, february 5 longue vue house & gardens two classes: 9am and 10am cost: $8 for members; $10 for non-members bright flowers with sweet nectar will feed adult butterflies, but what about the caterpillars?
“friends of the  fishermen is a proven charity that is dedicated to achieving this.”
the capacity assessment will include a series of questions on critical areas of capacity including leadership, programs, fundraising, planning, management and operations, and technology.
for more information, please contact ashleigh gardere at aggardere@nola.gov.posted by gnof | 24 january 2012 lano’s second annual public policy institute will be held march 8-9 at the louisiana state museum in baton rouge.
this is a lot of fun, but i warn you, it is a tasting.
tel: 504-598-4663 fax: 504-598-4676
for feedback on applications, submit draft application by friday, march 16th, 2012, 5:00pm toinfo@seno-nola.org.
participants will learn how to: • navigate the world of grant procurement • research and identify potential funding sources •
what they find may help  hold bp accountable for one of the worst environmental disasters in history.
to accept your application, each of the items listed on page 2 must be submitted at the same time.
learn more on our website.
attic temperatures can be sweltering in the summer.
prepare students for public performances • communicate with ed about participants lessons and progress • assist xri personnel in assessing instructional materials and equipment needed for the program • attend staff meetings/check-ins • other duties as assigned crossroads institute for arts, learning and community p.o. box 771133 new orleans, la 70117 new orleans city council members, u.s. attorney james letten to attend; site is home to youth empowerment project and delgado’s adult education programs
you will also have the opportunity to learn about other unique programs and services that can help you launch your social venture.
april 26th, 6pm-8pm 841 carondelet street, new orleans
jane’s walk honors the legacy and ideas of urban activist and writer jane jacobs who championed the interests of local residents and pedestrians over a car-centered approach to planning.
education: targeted training in the fundamentals of entrepreneurship through ideainstitute.posted by gnof | 14 july 2011 candy bars, prison bars how schools can reverse the major youth epidemics of our times thursday, july 21 at 10:00am new orleans charter science & mathematics high school (cafeteria) 5625
in addition to live entertainment, there will be a silent auction, featuring an iconic print of blue dog by cajun artist george rodrigue and a live auction featuring the artwork of frenchy, a new orleans artist known throughout the country for his energetic performance art.
if any one can help me find a steady source for fresh oyster shells please call 504-418-2970.
“parent centers will bring clear information to communities throughout new orleans.”
this workshop will also tackle moisture control.
in addition, queen of soul irma thomas and wdsu tv 6 chief meteorologist margaret orr will read the books to ymca children beginning at 11 a.m.
a proven record of being able to work successfully with diverse populations.
details and registration athttp://www.thefundingseed.com.
feedback may be sent to sabrina d. marsh-sanders, executive director of project management atsabrina.marsh-sanders@rsdla.net.
combining a shared fascination of new orleans musical culture with the certainty that the city’s future rests on the development of a collective consciousness about water management, drip was composed to heighten our awareness of water through sound.
* l.b. landry high school, 1200 l.b. landry ave.
hiring, supervision, and termination of staff.
write grant proposals and reports to corporate, foundation, and government funders.
nine local shelters and rescue groups will be participating in this  adoption event: the la/spca, paws, arno, louisiana boxer rescue, gulf coast  doberman rescue, the sula foundation, st. francis animal sanctuary, st. bernard  parish animal shelter and the jefferson parish animal shelter.
the other programs are the foster grandparent program and the senior companion program.
the director of donor relations will spearhead development efforts to continue the growth of jericho road.
each team will prepare four dishes using a secret ingredient from the rethink garden, then present their dishes to a panel of youth and celebrity judges.
we have a lot to offer the good people of new orleans.
if we have not heard from you and you would like to participate in this program please send the following information to esther.shin@urbanstrategiesinc.org by friday, february 12, 2010.
an interactive around the world pass will encourage attendees to try exciting beer offerings from around the world.
if you have any information or would like to sponsor homesforourbirds.org please contact us today by calling 308.249.4243 or emailing support@homesforourbirds.org thank you for your support!
- develop relationships with families of youth clients.
other responsibilities • maintains the development  department’s filing and record-keeping systems • orders and  maintains departmental supplies • leads engaging facility tours for  established and prospective donors; students • processes funds from  the lighthouse auxiliary committee and generates membership mailings • carries out some light lifting (20-25 lbs) for special event setup and  the handling of campaign materials.
our homes are ready for immediate occupancy.
native now why plant native species: an ongoing conversation in longue vue’s “wild garden”
proposals are due friday, december 16th, 2011 by 5:00 p.m. c.s.t. download the grant instructions and application here: http://www.operationreach.org/2011/news/apply-today-to-fund-youth-led-projects/ contact angela anthony at (504) 529-1922 ext.
• strong accounting and excel skills.
i’ve thought of taking a course at the local colleges but can anyone suggest any other resources that might help me learn?
call 525-3225 for more information.posted by lori haeuser | 16 april 2010 the place to be for cinco de mayo–*free admission & 5% of all proceeds benefit the la/spca.
peter seltzer from canopy nola will lend advice on how to chose environmentally responsible and nontoxic building and design products for your home.
he discovered a shared love of outdoor activities with poe, who will  be attending cornell law in the fall.
they brokered a deal with aramark to serve fresh, local produce in schools around the city, presented groundbreaking recommendations to the new recovery school district superintendent, convinced school leaders to adopt restorative practices in place of traditional discipline, and more.
bilingual or multilingual competency is preferred.
date: monday, march 21st, 2011 time:
ongoing leadership coaching and school support from successful veteran principals • membership in a nationwide community of driven and results-oriented colleagues • administrative certification (candidates may enter the program with certification.)
bistro daisy the bulldog – uptown the bulldog – mid-city cafe amelie cafe degas crescent pie & sausage company eat new orleans gautreau’s restaurant la petite grocery mark twain’s pizza landing martinique bistro bistro daisy the bulldog – uptown the bulldog – mid-city cafe amelie cafe degas crescent pie & sausage company eat new orleans gautreau’s restaurant la petite grocery mark twain’s pizza landing martinique bistro meauxbar bistro mia’s balcony nonna mia cafe & pizzeria pinkberry ralph’s on the park rue 127 santa fe restaurant santa fe tapas tully’s
the group training sessions are designed as a series of 8 clinics that will cover a single capacity building topic per clinic.
hiring for 3 positions the organization:
the algae industry is being built today by americans who all want to get off foreign oil.
it saves a lot of time.
(near the palace theatre), from 5:00-9:00.
learn more about our guest here: police chief ronal serpasposted by julia | 31 january 2011 position title:
leading educators aims to close the achievement gap by developing highly-effective mid-level teacher-leaders in high-need public schools through three primary objectives: -directly improve student achievement in high-need schools by increasing the skillfulness of teacher-leaders -retain highly effective teachers in high-needs schools by articulating a career pathway from teaching to leadership -create a national network committed to investment in teacher leadership regional program director – kansas city the regional program director (rpd) collaborates with the national team and provides the direct leadership of the regional training program, including summer and weekend workshops, excellent school visit trips around the country, coaching support, problem-solving communities, and leader impact projects.
able to get to schools in mid-city, uptown, treme and central city as well as our office at the art egg studios (1001 s. broad st) -comfortable using google docs to store lesson plans and notes -easy to contact.
looking for an intern to work 10-12 hours a week, january – august 2012 onwednesdays at the square and ylc gala.
our ultimate goal is for each participant to walk away with a product specific to their interests that includes the grant design, abstract and budget.
for more information, call (504) 525-2121 or visit http://www.globalgreen.org/bibg/calendar/posted by gnof | 12 july 2011 two part-time facilitators for rethink clubs during the 2011-2012 academic year.
we will plant 50 trees in pre-dug holes.
our fundraising gala for the year is sept. 25, and it is important to be there in the eye!
in conjunction with other members of the regional team, the pem is responsible for the development of fellows working in high-need schools across kansas city.
major gift/donor support • assists in producing major donor, board and special category solicitations • provides support materials as needed •
also, the accelerator corps gives you the tools you need in the beginning stages helps you with the random issues that come up.”
read blvd engine 40 2500 general de gaulle dr common ground relief 1800 deslonde st. sponsored by the jefferson parish animal shelter, jefferson spca, and slva the following locations will be available in jefferson parish: fire station #11 3535 jefferson hwy (old jefferson) lakeshore playground 1125 rosa ave (metairie) bright playground 3401 cleary ave (metairie)
when: tuesday, january 18 7:00 – 8:15 p.m.
applications will be accepted at the city planning commission between 8:00 am and 6:00pm monday through friday.
map amendments influence the potential uses and development of specific properties.
we can assist in providing immediate response, these logbooms are readily available in the pacific northwest, are much more effective than the plastic booms that are currently in use and supply is abundant and they can be delivered immediately kind regards, jim takeda usdemocrats.com this build it back green workshop will address the importance of monitoring your homes indoor air quality.
your name and email address are required but arenot shared with the public.
global nola global nola is a publication of una-usa, new orleans.
thus, the opportunity to influence the future of your work and ideas is within your reach.
contact jessica@theneworleansinstitute.org at the new orleans institute @ city-works, the new orleans sponsor for jane’s walk 2010.posted by gnof | 8 april 2010 since the storms of 2005, new orleanians have engaged in more planning activities than any other jurisdiction in the country.
you may also visit us on the web athttp://www.pax.org.posted by alfonso sanchez | 19 july 2011 greater new orleans—july 10, 2011—the united nations association of the united states of america, new orleans (una-usa, new orleans) chapter is launching this fall.
all proceeds will go towards the greater new orleans gulf coast oil spill fund.
the rethinkers will present their winning project and speak about their experiences.
applicants must create original works.
accommodations at the nathan hale inn on the uconn campus are available for people wishing to come from out of state to attend the fund raiser.
the program has served over 5,000 young students from greater new orleans public schools since it began in 1985.
ms. young can be contacted at 504.658.7806 orjypontin@nola.gov. deadline 5/31/2011posted by clifford walls | 21 april 2011 east lansing, mi – 2,350 miles.
this workshop will teach you the step-by-step process of sealing duct work and sealing cracks around window and doors.
if you know any more college graduates who would be interested in the mentoring program, please forward them this email or feelfree to reach out to me atlfeingerts@kippbelieve.org or (504) 913-9116.
currently, the organization is working diligently to interrupt the school to prison pipeline.
the creators of drip are architects by trade, and like many artists, they hold the belief that the health of a culture is dependent on the quality of its art.
• track income and expenses of program on  an ongoing basis.
http://www.nlns.org/infosession.jsp.
but congress did eliminate the matching grants program for equipment through the department of commerce.
work may include pr writing, photography, grant writing, research, note taking, drafting reports, meeting attendance, site visits, event coordination, etc.
take part in making new orleans a better place to live.
find out which gives you the best bang for your buck, what to use where, and how each will affect your home.
a whole lot of reasons for you toapply now.
the greater new orleans foundation is the community foundation serving the 13-parish region of metropolitan new orleans.
your donation will grant you admission to the chew dat party and judging event on december 10.
we always tweet when we’ve posted a new blog on our site, articles we find compelling, videos we’re watching, and more!posted by gnof | 23 may 2011 friday, june 10, 2011 8:30am – 3:00pm a free symposium: our wetlands, our future hosted by our lady of holy cross college moderated by john snell of fox 8
and i go to ames high.
to participate in pitchnola as an audience member, please register here before spaces fill up.
aia new orleans center for design 1000 st charles ave., new orleans, la 70130 monthly sustainability events are free and open to the public.
this panel will help social entrepreneurs gain a better understanding of the following: how accessing and leveraging the media can help social entrepreneurs further their mission how to access media how to pitch a story to the press how to build relationships with members of the press what counts as news-worthy how social entrepreneurs can better market their organizations and gain media attention agenda: 6:00-6:30 allison gouaux and anna koehl, beurmann miller fitzgerald 6:30-7:00 jennifer bond, bond pr and brand strategy 7:00-8:00 panel discussion: jarvis deberry, editorial writer and columnist, times-picayune gina swanson, wdsu reporter dr. brenda edgerton-webster, former radio/television reporter; currently assistant professor, department of mass communications, xavier university prof. melinda shelton, times-picayune columnist, former newspaper reporter and editor; currently director of student publications, xavier university the city of new orleans invites you to the wisner grants information session thursday, february 2, 2012 10:30 – 11:30am city planning commission conference room 1340 poydras street, 9th floor new orleans, la during this session, participants will learn about the city’s process for reviewing and awarding grants to local nonprofit organizations that provide excellent programs in the areas of: 1) education 2)
position reports to the program manager of nola wise.
on wednesday, august 10th, ymca education services (yes!) will receive 5% of the net proceeds from whole foods locations uptown and on veterans blvd.
going green, a specially curated collection of films that highlight the impact we all have on the environment, and our shared responsibility for the planet’s future.
understand the new federal guidelines for writing winning grants 6.
need to update your home page.posted by martha | 20 november 2009
for more information, contact laney white at lwhite@globalgreen.org posted by gnof | 5 april 2011 chef john besh’s new orleans wyes is pleased to debut its latest national series, chef john besh’s  new orleans, which will air here saturdays at 9:30am and sundays at 2pm .
the program works in partnership with schools to supplement the classroom work.
docent at the holy cross project visitor center global green’s holy cross project visitor center is a leed platinum home (the highest level of this green building standard).
immediately following the opening of the student biennial, an exhibition opening for the murals completed thus far at the art house on the levee will take place from 6:00 – 9:00 pm at the ideal auto repair building, 420 girod street.
visit http://www.lano.org for a full agenda and to register.
all proceeds go directly to assist the rethinkers in getting to washington dc.
-research prospects and increase prospect pool -incorporate development and donor relations strategy into jericho road sponsored events -report monthly to the board of directors -work cooperatively with executive director to develop/write/create all grants and proposals including reporting -support executive director and board of directors in constructing annual strategic development plan that includes diversified funding streams -work with director of operations and communications on creation/production of marketing materials -support
the alerts include agendas of all scheduled committee meetings, board business meetings, public hearings, master plan oversight committee meetings, and other regular business of the orleans parish school board.
during this training session, facilitators will teach participants how to manage the complexities of financial systems and controls of nonprofit organizations.
in  addition to having adoptable shelter dogs, cats, puppies and kittens, the event  will also offer information on the benefits of adopting shelter pets,  behavioral education, and special services available to pet owners at the  louisiana spca as well as a bake sale, boxer rescue kissing booth, giveaways  and more!
to help make these input channels clear thenew orleans coalition on open (nocog) and vietnamese american young leaders association new orleans (vayla-no) worked together to put this together.
now they’re off to washington, dc for the national-level competition.
responsibilities include: • manage all program reporting and  data analysis through psd database.
people may view our websitehttp://www.alimauconn.com for more information and to contact us about a donation or other questions.
i’ve learned the basics–follow the guidelines, answer all the questions proposed and get to the point.
the intern must have his/her own means of  transportation as public transportation is lacking in our neighborhood.
the development assistant supports that mission though assisting in fund raising; donor cultivation and communications; and impeccable record keeping.
cefpi is giving partial support for the travels, but the rethinkers are still in great need of monetary support to cover food and travel expenses to get to dc.
shearer speaks to the tireless investigators and experts who poked through the muck as the water receded, and uncovers a courageous whistle-blower from the army corps of engineers.
the green project 2831 marais street new orleans, la 70117 phone: 504-945-0240 the literacy alliance is sponsoring a capacity building workshop to help organizations who want to add an adult literacy component to their existing community services.
basic information on do good for the gulf 2.
august 30th, 6pm-8pm 841 carondelet st, new orleans the workshops aim to provide various civic group leaders, leaders in the community, members of the media, journalists, teachers, informal educators, artists and government officials with current scientific research data about louisiana’s wetlands in an understandable and reusable format.
in fact, on a national level, we only have a single part-time employee who worksfrom home and is responsible for paying the bills, dealing with legal and regulatory filings and ensuring the wholething stays together.
refreshments from local restaurants will be served.
please no phone calls.
deliver workshops on the program for a  general audience.
it’s been just a few months but kiva nola has already seen great success and it’s all because of you!
entries must be submitted via online application by thursday, september 15, 2011, 11:59pm cst.
a wonderful program about our superb culinary traditions.
• articulate public speaker.
our green vendor directory has hundreds of merchants in the immediate vicinity listed by product type, & offers national alternatives when no local merchants are available.
navigate the world of grant procurement 2.
call sheryll cascio, special events and public relations, 827-4002 for ticket information.posted by sheryll cascio | 23 september 2009 wednesday, october 21, 2009, marks the date of family service of greater new orleans’ 36th ten outstanding persons gala.
each year we put on a dance showcase to benefit a charity or cause that we feel strongly about.
august 24, 2009 is the deadline.
the first task for the new bese members will be to appoint a state superintendent of education, and, in the coming year bese, in partnership with local school board members, education organizations, and state representatives, will play a key role in determining how new orleans public schools are to be governed.
posted by gnof | 18 march 2011 perspectives: leadership, friendship, love, and civil rights moon landrieu former mayor, city of new orleans dr. norman francis president, xavier university william winter former governor, state of mississippi myrlie evers-williams founder and ceo, medgar & myrlie
evers institute you are invited to hear their perspectives.
compensation the intern will be paid a weekly stipend of $500.
please join us for an informational/getting organized meeting on tuesday may 4th at 7pm.
position includes full benefits including 401k  plan.
five finalists will be featured on cox 10 and the winner, chosen by public vote, will receive $5,000 to award to the environmental nonprofit of his or her choice.
new york city, gratz argues, recovered precisely because of the waning power of moses.
for the past year, brothers paul and michael have been testing samples of  seafood and sediment located in oil-ravaged louisiana.
yep will contact all individuals we are interested in interviewing —no phone calls please.posted by gnof | 13 june 2011 seeking three theater troupe coaches for summer youth program to work with kids age 14 – 21 the theater troupe coach is accountable for the program’s daily activities and operations, and is responsible for ensuring the program realizes its mission and goals.
individual reports to lra ceo and manages lraef board administration, communications & governance.
for more information, call (504) 525-2121 or visit http://www.globalgreen.org/bibg/calendar/ global green usa proudly partners with the aia, new orleans chapter and usgbc, la chapter to present a monthly panel series on issues of sustainability and environmental responsibility.
local experts will walk you through easy, do-it-yourself measures and larger projects that can improve your indoor air quality, your home’s durability, and your comfort while saving you money!
for more information on tour for life 2011 visit http://www.animalleague.org/tourforlife2011 posted by cory sparks | 24 march 2011 presented by greater giving free for lano members/$20 for non-members this seminar draws on the experience of greater giving clients that  consistently deliver record-breaking fundraisers, plus expertise from talented  and creative event planners.
the final 2011 action plan will be submitted to hud on august 16, 2011.
please spread the word to all of your colleagues, friends, and family.
the special “night out” is also meant to honor the thousands of americans and their families in the gulf seafood industry who are now back to work, fishing the gulf waters for the most succulent catches.
join us on friday, january 27th, from 5:30 to 7:30 pm for “blue” drinks to learn more about the entrepreneurial opportunities that exist in the new orleans region.
keep and organize all physical and digital files related to the execution of the program.
only completed forms will be reviewed.
here are a few highlights at the beginning of 2012.
it will give individuals tips on how to recognize energy efficient models and how to improve the efficiency of existing models.
the desire to learn from and be a part of a peer cohort of social entrepreneurs •
all funding will be used to build the capacity of local nonprofits that promote economic recovery, help low-income families secure and retain jobs, break down barriers to employment, and put families on the pathway to self-sufficiency.
responsible for all financial matters related.
address the guidelines of federal and foundation applications 4.
they will be creating iphone apps for real clients– zeitgeist theater, cafe reconcile, harmony oaks apartments and the new orleans film festival.
new orleans, la 70113 build it back green events are free and open to the public.
the mod is awarding 1 or 2 grants for a total amount of $25,000 for projects or programs related to the march of dimes mission.
deliver workshops on the program for a general audience.
speakers include: mike blum, tulane; shirley laska, uno-chart; john lopez, lake pontchartrain basin foundation; doug meffert, tulane; ehab messehle, ull; robert moreau, se la university; kristina peterson, uno-chart; denise reed, uno; torbjorn tornqvist, tulane; steve mathies, ocpr; tom holden, corps of engineers.
a positive attitude and ability to plan and adapt to change.
letters of intent will be accepted now until 5:00 p.m. c.s.t. on wednesday, november 23rd, 2011.
the role will have the following main responsibilities: - coordinate development and delivery of the regional training program by working with coaches, national team members, and outside trainers to provide customized training modules.
when family service sells tickets, family service gets to keep the $5.00.
with light refreshments generously donated by mona’s café.
please visit the site today and cast your vote to help the children of our community!posted by gnof | 2 february 2011 shop & support wednesday, february 9 hours of operation: 8am-9pm please make sure that you shop at whole foods market – arabella station to supportnew orleans children’s health project.
check it out and get involved!posted by heidi jensen | 1 november 2011 monthly sustainability series: november 10th, 2011 global green usa proudly partners with the aia, new orleans chapter and usgbc, la chapter to present a monthly panel and community discussion series on issues of sustainability and environmental responsibility.
join the louisiana disaster recovery foundation and the louisiana  association of nonprofit organizations at the beautiful louisiana state museum  next to the state capitol in baton rouge april 6th and 7th.
crime was at its highest, the middle class exodus was in high gear, and bankruptcy loomed.
getting to meet and work with thirty-five of the brightest, most dedicated  go-getters our age in new orleans.
learn what they need to insure future generations of fluttering beauty and grace for your garden.
8, 9, 10 and 11 a.m.
he discovered a shared love of outdoor activities with poe, who will be attending cornell law in the fall.
the tooth bus program consists of two buses that deliver dental care (everything but orthodontia) to children from low-income families throughout the greater new orleans area.
we’ve identified the top five benefit event  planning issues, with practical solutions for each, which you can put into  action now and build on for your future fundraising success: at this seminar, you will learn how to successfully address these critical  areas: *volunteers: recruiting, managing, and retaining *sponsors:  recruiting, retaining, and program development *event promotion:  marketing, attracting new guests and online programs *budgeting: ticket  pricing, cutting unnecessary expenses, and revenue projection *operational  efficiency: getting the best return on investment, leveraging past event  experience visit http://www.lano.org to register.
i’m just registered today.
if you or your organization works with  volunteers in any capacity, this is an event you and your constituents do not  want to miss!
address the guidelines of federal and foundation applications • identify and effectively write the key elements of a proposal •
this granting process encourages business participation in the beautification of our major thoroughfares by providing matching funds designated solely for storefront landscaping for up to $500.
on thursday, june 17th, several restaurants across greater new orleans are donating 20% of their dinner proceeds to the la/spca.
provide evaluations for each pupil’s growth and performance, assessing each individual’s contribution to the performance of the group •
on december 10, six teams will compete for the title of chew dat champion in our first ever iron chef-style fundraiser.
• conducts organizational assessment (reviews finance, operations, and programs) using seno program assessment protocol • collaborates with social entrepreneur to develop ten-month “milestone activity plan” (map) with a focus on top three measurable goals in financial sustainability, social impact, and venture implementation •
project home again — summer internship project home
- the service leader/youth ally change maker award (age 18-25) will honor acollege student or young adult leading the way in youth service efforts in his or her community.
sponsoring the forum are the louisiana association of public charter schools, eastbank collaborative of charter schools, young leadership council, citizens for 1 greater new orleans, bureau of governmental research, scott s. cowen institute for public education initiatives, black alliance for educational options, new orleans chamber of commerce, urban league of greater new orleans, orleans public education network, engagenola, new schools for new orleans, neighborhood partnership network, algiers economic development foundation, new orleans regional black chamber of commerce, puentes new orleans, vietnamese initiatives in economic training, hispanic chamber of commerce of la, nola parent organizing network, greater new orleans education foundation, baptist community ministries, and united negro college fund.
the center provides comprehensive educational, mental, physical, and social services, so that kids have a real chance to succeed in school, graduate, and become productive working adults.
firstline now operates four k-8th grade school and a high school, which was added in 2011-12 when it assumed management of clark high school from the recovery school district.
sign up today for free webinars in which causeplanet publisher denise mcmahan guides lano members and friends through page to practice and other great features of the site.
for a sample of the information you will be asked to provide, please view previous publications of the c2e notebook, available athttp://www.connect2educate.org.
grab of couple of your friends and spend the afternoon along esplanade ridge.
costume contest, too!!
qualifications the summer intern should have a  diverse set of skills including a basic understanding of home construction,  weatherization and energy-efficiency concepts, gis mapping and spreadsheets, as  well as the ability to quickly gain an understanding of and speak about the  organization’s homeowner selection process.
ambassador corps members have the opportunity to help participate in the hands-on weatherization.
if you were an aficionado of “upstairs, downstairs,” you’ll love this series, sundays at 9p.
attendees will enjoy a night of light refreshments courtesy of parkway tavern, a silent auction, and live local music by twangorama and the high ground drifters.
light refreshments will be served.
welcome by lifecity 5:35pm: global green presentation 5:40pm:
as needed, act as spokesperson for the organization at meetings, public events, and in the media.
for more information on the green light district, please see here the green light district on facebook.posted by gnof | 3 december 2010
since our inception, yep has earned local and statewide recognition for being at the cutting edge of progressive programs for at-risk youth.
we  expect that 75% of the intern’s time will be spent in the field and 25%  in the office.
the forum provides the public an opportunity to familiarize themselves with the candidates in this important election for public schools in louisiana, and particularly in new orleans.
voodoo bbq will spend time at ruffin’s famous bbq grill cooking up tasty treats.
new leaders provides: • rigorous principal training •
the foundation feels strongly that this look will be evidenced in how attractively we present our community to potential residents.
the idea village is seeking its next class of dedicated, high-growth entrepreneurs to participate in the 3rd annual idea village entrepreneur challenge (ivec), our central entrepreneur accelerator program.
as american cities face a devastating economic crisis, jacobs’s philosophy is again vital for the redevelopment of metropolitan life.
• collection and organization of employee timesheets.
get on board participants will gain increased levels of competence and confidence in nonprofit board of director’s skills through workshops on topics such as board roles and responsibilities, financial policies and fiduciary duties, legal considerations, strategic planning processes and effective leadership development.
technical, ecological, economic & societal issues concerning coastal restoration.
much work lies ahead as we strive to build a stronger economy, better opportunities for all, and a greener, more sustainable future.
in this case, we will be utilizing those skills towards developing iphone applications for local nonprofits.
enjoy light organic refreshments and wines as we showcase sustainable art using reclaimed materials by salvations designers past and present.
coordinates pro-bono expert technical assistance on an as-needed basis and cultivates networks in the areas of accounting, human resources, legal, board development, marketing, social networking, new technologies, graphic design, and fund development •
local experts will teach you about small actions, innovative products, and smart home design that will help your house use less energy, save water, and avoid mold and moisture issues.
our marketing kit contains web buttons, conference logos, informational brochures, social media guides, newsletter submission and more.
the event will feature entertainment by kermit ruffins & the barbecue swingers, drinks & raffle prizes.
it must seek to create social and/or environmental value and impact in a significant and sustainable manner.
laws and regulations affect us all – our engagement in the public policy arena is critial to ensure louisanans benefit from informed decisions.
fore more information, give us a call at (504) 525-2121 or e-mail lwhite@globalgreen.org.posted by laney white | 12 september 2011 come to this free workshop to arm yourself with the knowledge you need to make your home as comfortable, safe, and efficient as possible.
*space is limited, and since this class fills-up quickly, it is on a first-come, first-serve basis.
supports board-level development committees by preparing meeting spaces, taking notes, and providing reports as necessary • produces reports in raiser’s edge and excel • assists in creating annual fund raising plan • oversees reconciliation with accounting department to ensure accuracy in gift stewardship 2.
about new orleans council on aging – the new orleans council on aging exists to protect the rights, promote the well being, and enhance the self-esteem of new orleans elderly by generating opportunities for self-reliance and independence.posted by gnof | 29 march 2010 posted by gnof | 29 march 2010
the most successful program was new orleans in the ‘50’s, not only raising the most money, but attracting the most producers circle ($1,200+) on-air contributions ever.
for contractors, this will be an opportunity to receive up to 4 continuing education units.
“fonduing for dogs & cats” to benefit the la/spca will be held at the melting pot new orleans, located at 1820 st. charles ave., from 5:00pm-10:00pm.
operation reach is currently seeking individuals to contribute to its gulfsouth summer youth action camps (gsyac), as camp directors, instructors and americorps teacher-counselors, in summer camps in new orleans, la; birmingham, al; and atlanta, ga.
we encourage youth to submit well-written and carefully thought-out concepts for our funding consideration.
join the ranks of naked pizza, cordina mar-go-rita’s, nola brewing company and drop the chalk and receive six-months of free: mentorship & support: executives-in-residence [eirs] are seasoned entrepreneurs and experienced executives who act as the advisors for ideaxcelerator ventures, providing mentorship, guidance, strategy and connections.
-develop relationships with school staff to enhance the rethink club presence in schools.
please join us for a delightful evening.
please make all submissions by february 28, 2011.
the event is a collaboration of: junior league of new orleans tulane center for public service tulane social entrepreneurship initiative social entrepreneurs of nw orleans (seno) st. bernard project the idea village the green project gbrc monthly events:
special thanks to those organizations and individuals who have made the event possible: zeitgeist multidisciplinary arts center, saturn screen printing, new orleans musicians assistance foundation, global green usa, bernard productions, creative industries, fredy omar quiroz and zachary youngerman.
walls and poe are no strangers to  adventure.
this program is designed to assist non-profit charter management organizations, and other entities that are not for-profit entities, in replicating or expanding high-quality charter schools with demonstrated records of success.
the new recovery school district superintendent, john white, will respond to the rethinkers on behalf of the rsd.
actually, it was winston churchill, not theodore roosevelt, who said, “we make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give.”
a plan for the future of our coast thursday, may 26th; 5:30pm to 7:30pm green building resource center 841 carondelet street new orleans, la 70130 global green events are free and open to the public.
join us for music, food, children activities, games, raffles, health screening and special performances by local artists and groups!
responsibilities include: • manage all program reporting and data analysis through psd database.
creating large-scale social change stanford social innovation review and fsg present a webinar.
the prestigious awards honor outstanding young people, ages 7 through 25, who have shown exemplary leadership in recovery, education, entrepreneurship and community service initiatives in the gulfsouth region.
we do this by integrating hands-on organic gardening and seasonal cooking into the school curriculum, culture, and cafeteria meals programs.
expression workshop $10 registration fee includes word painting poster.
fellows meet monthly as a group to learn from one another, find solutions, and share challenges, resources, and successes.
we will hear from two of the most respected planners in the country.
from 6pm-11pm with cinco de mayo specials starting at 11am, 437 esplanade ave.
position  reports to the program associate of nola wise.
we want to support our local small businesses!
the forum will be held from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. at the professional schools building at dillard university, 2601 gentilly boulevard.
projects may include but are not limited to: – developing new data and knowledge management systems – supporting growth and expansion strategic planning in conjunction with le national – cultivating relationships with partners and external organizations – providing support to le national events and programming, as needed.
contact nathan barthels atnbarthels@globalgreen.org, (504)525-2121.
live music by two bands will be featured with rotary downs beginning at 2:30pm and flow tribe beginning at 5pm.
the new orleans children’s health project will receive 5% of proceeds on feb 9, 2011.
for additional information, please contactfsg (info@fsg.org).posted by heidi jensen | 5 january 2011 global green usa’s new orleans office is recruiting for the following 3 americorps vista positions: technical assistance coordinator (americorps vista) member duties : research:
tutors volunteer after school or on saturday mornings at stair sites in orleans, jefferson and plaquemines parishes.
work with the program manager and pr consultant to design and implement  comprehensive outreach strategies within targeted neighborhoods •  manage the outreach and information dissemination effort in each targeted  neighborhood, with availability on nights and weekends to attend meetings of  community groups and other volunteer organizations.
who is a cox conserves hero?
accurately performs data entry, filing, gift acknowledgement, solicitation letter processing and report production • assists with information needed for proposals to foundations and corporations • provides support for fund raising events •
terms : requires full time service without outside commitments .
families and children welcome.
i was hoping that if your orginization helps with the oil spills and i wanted to know that you might want to have some hair donations to make sacks to skoop up the oil.posted by gnof | 27 january 2011 seno accelerator consultant job description social entrepreneurs of new orleans (seno) seeks 4-8 experienced, energetic individuals who are committed to accelerating the impact of social entrepreneurship in new orleans.
we will meet on the balcony of borders bookstore on st charles ave
nominations accepted until 5 p.m. cst on february 22, 2010.
who will win the golden fork?
humidity in your home will make you uncomfortable.
our regular federal funding through the corporation for public broadcasting remains secure for the moment.
the board is asking that executive directors of children and youth serving providers complete this survey no later than friday, august 19 at 5pm.
• track income and expenses of program on an ongoing basis.
primary duties will entail managing the client intake and outreach process in order to provide the public with access to financing and other incentives available for energy efficiency home modifications.
-more- stair will train interested individuals on the following dates: wednesday, september 16 1:30 – 3:30 p.m. st. charles avenue presbyterian church, 1545 state st., nola saturday, september 19 9:00 – 11:00 a.m.
saturday, september 24th, 11am-1pm holy cross project 405 andry street, nola 70117 refreshments from local restaurants will be served.
(emailinfo@thefundingseed.com to inquire about discount codes.)
saturday, oct 8th & sunday, oct 9th 9am to 6pm loyola university, bobet hall, room 101 6363 st. charles avenue new orleans, la 70118 a fee of $25 is required: includes breakfast, lunch, & dinner.
open to all k-6 educators.
nominees age 13 and over, providing volunteer services for non-profit organizations in their community are eligible.
all vaccinations administered by members of the slva.
this grant competition ran for the first time in 2010, resulting in 12 grantees; descriptions of the 2010 grantees can be found at http://www2.ed.gov/programs/charter-rehqcs/2010/awards.html?exp=0.
i definitely would recommend seno’s accelerator program to up-and-coming social entrepreneurs.
responsible for managing human resources.
dogs must be on leashes and cats must be in carriers or on  leashes.
sponsored by seno, xavier university communications department, capital one bank, and louisiana office of community development date: tuesday, feb. 7 time: 6:00pm-8:00pm location: xavier university, room 173, norman francis building (corner of drexel and scott) rsvp required by feb. 2: please emailinfo@seno-nola.org.
which is why we need your help.
be at the grand opening of the new orleans healing center for an exciting surprise announcement about an extraordinary micro-financing opportunity for our city’s small businesses!!!
training takes only two hours and no experience is necessary.
“we see our investment in economic opportunity as strengthening the state’s neediest communities and helping them develop resources that will better enable them to respond and recover when faced with another disaster.
a change in location for global green’s april 26th
and they’ll be making this journey… by canoe.
new orleans college prep will provide all our students with a sound college preparatory education that rivals the academic rigor of the best private and public schools in the city.
participants will have a better understanding of the formation of wetlands, ecology and importance of wetlands, the natural and anthropogenic causes of wetland loss, the complexity of wetland management and the pros and cons of the various restoration methods as well as protection methods.
access to networks: the idea village provides access to a network of local and national investors, mentors and professional service providers through over 75 events during the season, including the big idea showcase, noew preview, and new orleans entrepreneur week.
rebate of $50.00 per person is given for two or more registrants from the same organization.
one brick provides support to local non-profit and community organizations by creating a unique, social and flexible volunteer environment for those interested in making a concrete difference in the community.
includes friday afternoon staff meeting.
they’re good for “light use.”
august 28th, 2010 9:30 pm – 2:00 am zeitgeist multidisciplinary arts center 1618 oretha castle haley blvd.
posted by gnof | 25 april 2011 kingsley house annual fundraising luncheon “our community footprint” 11:30 am to 1:00 pm kingsley house historic gymnasium (circa 1832) 1600 constance street new orleans, la 70130 program will begin promptly at noon.
bill robinson and other local experts will teach you about small actions and innovative products, like programmable thermostats, that will help you save on your utility bills while making your home more comfortable.
award • first place: $1,000 + executive mentorship, consulting, and pro-bono technical assistance (i.e., legal, accounting, marketing, etc.) provided by social entrepreneurs of new orleans as a “seno associate” for green the gras questions, please contact green@mylifecity.com.posted by heidi jensen | 19 august 2011 global green usa monthly sustainability series, august 24th: nola wise – a new financing opportunity for a healthy and efficient home global green usa proudly partners with the aia, new orleans chapter, and usgbc, la chapter, to present a monthly panel and community discussion series on issues of sustainability and environmental responsibility.
workshops start at 9 am sharp both sunday and monday.
call 368-5191 or visithttp://www.la-spca.org for more information.posted by lori haeuser | 16 april 2010 may 22nd
-collaborate on overall creation of rethink club curriculum.
algaepreneurs are starting to build commercial-scale plants throughout the us using all off-the-shelf existing technologies.
to address this serious question and to improve recruitment and retention of nonprofit leaders, lano has partnered with pathfinder solutions to launch path with a heart, an initiative to find practical solutions to sustainable leadership for louisiana’s nonprofit sector.
physical: able to lift 25 pounds and to perform specified duties 6.
artist- j. din hurtposted by heidi jensen | 16 june 2010 gbrc monthly panel discussion global green usa is proud to partner with the aia, new orleans chapter and the usgbc-louisiana chapter for our monthly panel series on issues of sustainability and environmental responsibility.
please indicate on the application if you are applying for a scholarship.
innovation/potential for significant social impact in an area of high need • clear and compelling problem definition • seriousness of the social problem to be addressed • sound strategy and plan for program development and delivery • plan for evaluating success and performance • innovative idea and approach • potential for tangible impact to the beneficiary population • potential for solving the identified problem at scale (locally, nationally, or internationally) • potential for effecting systemic change (e.g., policy change, societal change, influence in the field)
the application can easily be completed in 15-20 minutes.
after each presentation, participants will receive a complimentary native plant.
“america’s night out for gulf seafood” is intended to show that seafood from the gulf of mexico is safe to eat and is the most scrutinized and tested seafood in the entire world.
in july of 2009, 36,000 high school youth and their adult leaders came to new orleans for the elca youth gathering that left a footprint of change in the city.
click here to register now to reserve your place.posted by gnof | 20 may 2011 2011 2nd quarter meeting tuesday, june 7, 2011 at the touro synagogue 4238 st. charles avenue 11:30am – social time 12:00pm – lunch 12:15pm – presentation by samuel d. caldwell, president, the planned giving company, llc topic: pedal to the metal: how to get from zero to sixty in your planned giving program nationally recognized for his innovative leadership in planned giving marketing and solicitation, sam caldwell has 17 years of front-line gift planning and fundraising experience.
building a website • market analysis • strategic planning • business planning • setting up an accounting system • marketing and pr • fund development • legal services: incorporation, board training, contract creation and review, etc. •
you may vote for our tooth bus program once each day and the voting will continue through february 28, so please visit the site day and cast your vote to help the children of our community.posted by jane herman | 24 february 2011 the alliance for affordable energy is currently searching for a new executive director.
the development assistant plays an important role by providing administrative support to the director of development and participating in all fundraising activities including donor- and public relations, direct mail appeals, and special events.
the site will house both yep’s and delgado’s adult education programs, providing ged preparation and literacy training to over 300 students daily.
meet the public official engagenola presents the next edition of the meet the public official series with featured guest: new orleans police chief ronal serpas january 31st, 2011 @ columns hotel ballroom 3811 st. charles avenue 6:00 – 8:00 pm
to be held in freeman auditorium, woldenberg art  center friday, may 13, 7 pm aliens are coming, a multi-media lecture by  performance artist josé torres-tama saturday, may 14, 3-5 pm the history of the future, beyond the border  of mexico and the us, a panel discussion with michael berman, julián  cardona, writers charles bowden and yuri herrera-gutierrez, and curator nancy  sutor posted by heidi jensen | 6 may 2011 new orleans program associate global green usa seeks a committed and  energetic person to join our new orleans office in the nola wise energy  efficiency financing program.
nomination forms should be typed or printed.
the intern must be able to  work in a small office with a handful of hardworking, but good-natured  colleagues and handle projects independently as well as within a small team.
applications should be submitted tohttps://egrants.cns.gov/espan/main/login.jsp.
please send application to: polly campbell st. bernard community foundation neighborhood initiatives 4212 florida ave.
when: thursday, december 9th, 5:00 pm to 9:00 pm where: the green light district, 2000-2100 magazine street and bridge lounge, 1201 magazine street, new orleans, la please email heidi jensen at our gbrc for more information:
join us in service by contacting handson new orleans  or the louisiana nccc.
understanding this reality, institutions are willing to minimally invest in the training of their staff to make this happen.
thanks to all for making that happen!
check out all that the conference  has to offerhere.
work schedule: full-time, hourly; 40 hours  per week 8.
that’s the distance that  michigan state university graduates, alex poe and cliff walls, intend to travel  this coming summer.
new ideas for marketing your arts organization with eric hess wednesday, july 27th, 6:00 p.m. arts council’s new offices at 935 gravier st, suite 850 free, but please rsvp to 504-218-8869 or via email to gmeneray at artscouncilofneworleans.org harry shearer’s new documentary “the big uneasy” sunday, july 24th
i’ve made so much progress since the start of the program–seno has helped to reduce wasted time, quicken the learning curve, and cut out some of the baby steps in the beginning.”
women, people of color and adults who attended public schools in new orleans are encouraged to apply.
this two-year grant is designated for the nonprofit capacity building program (program) that urban strategies (urban) will be implementing as part of its revitalization work at harmony oaks (formerly known as c.j. peete).
to qualify for each subsequent component of the capacity building program an organization must first complete a capacity assessment.
fellow tippy tippens //
tickets are $25 if purchased in advance athttp://folc-nola.org/ and will be available for $30 at the door.
jack & jake’s has secured financing since the start of the new ventures accelerator to begin operations and created 7 new positions.
applications are due by august 11, 2011, and must be submitted through grants.gov.
nominate your hero here: http://www.coxconservesheroes.com/new-orleans-la/nomination-form.aspx *
exhibit highlights include a 16-panel mural created collaboratively by prospect.2 artist bruce davenport and members of the roots of music marching crusaders band; photography by students from kids rethink new orleans schools, shot in the style of prospect.2 artist lorraine o’grady and based on workshops with the new orleans kid camera project and the prospect.2 education department; photography submissions from new orleans-area students inspired by prospect.2 artist william pope.
join us to learn more about what we can all do to affordably green our lifestyles as we work toward a more sustainable future.
for example, we didn’t have legitimate accounting and quickbooks, a business plan, a strategic plan, we weren’t tracking the teachers we were trying to help, and we didn’t have a timeline for projects.
abilities: • be committed to, and find passion in, gchp’s mission.
january 19, 2011, 2-3 pm est register
the program recognizes outstanding volunteers in all nfl cities, awarding nearly $1 million to charitable organizations.
please join us for the usual informative and lively discussion with light organic refreshments and wines from our generous sponsors at whole foods market and atchafalaya restaurant.
the mom & baby mobile health center initiative date: tuesday, july 26, 2011 time: 10:00am place: 3401 canal street, new orleans, la (united methodist church)
must possess excellent written, verbal and presentation skills.
proceeds from this event ensure that kingsley house can continue its impactful legacy of educating children, strengthening families and building community.
this event will mark the next step in our work to help create a sustainable economic and environmental future for the region.
click here to learn more about each team and make a tax-deductible donation to your favorite.
bye for the moment.posted by algodogew | 28 august 2011 i was just seeking this info for a while.
a note from the foundation: do you know about the grantwriting courses offered by the louisiana association of nonprofit organizations?
you & members of your association are invited to participate.
their efforts are returned exponentially with the impact wehave on our communities.
a creative mind, energetic spirit, engaging personality, and hard worker; • good communication and customer service skills.
she or he is an individual who creates, preserves or enhances places where people connect with nature-and their communities.
how to apply / contact submit cover letter & resume to: resumes@lra.org please include in subject line: ef search january workshop:
now’s back  office construction operations and project management logistics, including: - administering build now’s web-based construction management system,  including tracking and managing scheduling, purchasing, pricing, and reporting - collaborating closely with sales and construction staff to ensure client  and project data is tracked and implemented correctly - assisting sales  team in developing prospect tracking and sales management systems -  managing (collecting/creating and tracking) all paperwork required by banks,  safety & permits, insurance companies, sub-contractors, etc -  overseeing creation of internal procedural documents, sales support materials,  and marketing materials.
at least five to seven years experience in non-profit management.
if you’d like to receive more information about una-usa, new orleans, please e-mailinfo@unanola.org or visit http://www.unanola.orgposted by gnof | 18 july 2011 the u.s. department of education’s charter schools program has just announced the 2011 csp grants competition for replication and expansion.
free health screenings blood pressure checks body mass index vision screenings free health education hypertension risk factors & heart health diabetes risk factors & prevention men’s & women’s health diet, exercise, &
the event will be helpd at the louisiana humanities center at 938 lafayette street in new orleans.
work with the program manager and pr consultant to design and implement comprehensive outreach strategies within targeted neighborhoods • manage the outreach and information dissemination effort in each targeted neighborhood, with availability on nights and weekends to attend meetings of community groups and other volunteer organizations.
dear indira - thank you very much for your comment.
posted by global green usa | 20 april 2011 a change in location for global green’s april 26th
keep and organize all physical and digital files related to the  execution of the program.