while the aquarium is a big draw for kids, it becomes  difficult to contain children sometimes who want to run up to the glass and see  the fish.
i would have to say that this restaurant is really better suited to adults dining without children than those dining with them.
the attraction is named liberty square riverboat, but the ship itself is named the liberty belle.
personally, i love this time of year.
in a way, i wish disney would  categorize their restaurants a bit more to help guide visitors (which  restaurants are appropriate for families with children, and which are best for  groups without children), so it's easier to choose which restaurants will be  best for you.
so what's with appetizers for kids only?
update: since this post was written, many changes have been made.
here is a perfect example, the liberty tree: photo credit the plaque under the tree reads:
the weather is perfect.
soups,  salads, sandwiches, chicken, bbq chicken, burgers and yummy desserts.
if you've ever been to disney you know that it's tough to plan days around meals and it's sometimes easier to just grab a burger or a sandwich at a quick service place.
but they cost the same as disneysized portions, so not the best bargain for a family.
even though we didn't like the way it worked out, because i am lazy i just went ahead and planned for it again for our2009 trip.
this is where we sat: wasn't a bad seat
what am i forgetting?
but i know we will not go  back.
photo credit we are under 3 months until disney!
we didn't order an appetizer as we  had the dining plan and well, appetizers aren't included in the plan.
there are so many places that we visit every time we go to wdw that we become used to seeing them and then one day they just pop out at us!
the price for 2010, basic dining plan varies by season; $41.99 or $46.99 per night per adult, $11.99 or $12.99 per night per child, depending on the time of year.
let's not forget sonny eclipse, the  animatronic lounge singer.
please see:ddp updates for 2012 share | posted by unbalanced libra at9:17 am 2 comments links to this post labels: disney dining saturday, february 20, 2010 disney vacation in april and may saturday, february 20, 2010 back in march of 2009 i posted about thebest time to visit disney world and well, here it is almost a year later and my opinion has not changed.
our 'standard' disney vacation time  frame is somewhere between the last week of april and the 3rd week of may.
so we  decided to grab lunch there one day.
we had been looking forward to this  meal for so long.
warm but not hot, very little rain and  perfect sleeping temperatures!
(i realize the deluxe plan does include an appetizer for adults.)
i really enjoyed my experience here, but that's because i'm a solo adult.
i am looking forward to being there in  april/may.
trip planning (7) - wdw '10 trip planning (35) - wdw '11 trip planning (9) - wdw basics (5) - wdw fall 2011 trip (2) - wdw spring 2010 trip (6) - wdw summer 2011 trip (3) blog archive blog archive april 2012 (5) march 2012 (7) february 2012 (10) january 2012 (3) november 2011 (8) october 2011 (4) september 2011 (6) august 2011 (1) july 2011 (1) june 2011 (6) may 2011 (1) december 2010 (1) november 2010 (1) october 2010 (2) september 2010 (3) august 2010 (3) july 2010 (4) june 2010 (5) may 2010 (9) april 2010 (10) march 2010 (12) february 2010 (7) january 2010 (6) december 2009 (7) november 2009 (10) october 2009 (4) september 2009 (11) august 2009 (9) july 2009 (11) june 2009 (4) may 2009 (26) april 2009 (18) march 2009 (9) june 2008 (10) may 2008 (27)
i got seared sterling salmon - with ratatouille$23.99, fawn got wild mushroom lasagna - roasted wild mushrooms, wilted arugula and spinach, fortina, parmesan, mascarpone and ricotta cheese, rustic tomato ragout$16.99 and cj got grilled new york strip steak - served with roasted potatoes, watercress and tomatoes tossed in caramelized shallot vinaigrette$30.99 for dessert, i ordered the famous 'chocolate wave' - served with brandied cherries$7.99
the  poly, as it is affectionately called, is a wonderful deluxe resort and the  place we have always stayed.
also, i can't forget to mention epcot'sflower and garden festival - we love seeing all the beautiful flowers and topiary all over epcot!
we've hadhorrible snow storms this month and well, while you'd think this is when i would want to go to florida and enjoy the sunshine i gotta tell ya, i would not want to come home to snow!
family www.flickr.com go to unbalancedlibra's photostream dhs grandma with the kids sites i love!
share | posted by unbalanced libra at 7:21 pm 2 comments links to this post labels: magic kingdom, wdw '09
but of course we would have loved to have been closer to the  aquarium.
oh well, i suppose it wouldn't be worth it to disney as i am sure an appetizer probably cost more than a dessert.
networked blogs top stories follow this blog updates from wdw updates and photos straight from walt disney world!
october 10-13, 2012 animal kingdom lodge staying in kidani village!
or you wind up  disappointed because the kids can't see as well as they want because they're  sitting across the room.
the cons: the pros: - not much flexibility - you get what’s included, with no substitutions - we really didn’t want two desserts each day (one with our quick service lunch and one with our table service dinner).
it was dreary inside.
the dark  colors coupled with dim lighting made everything seem drab.
in 2008 we used the basic dining plan and we were disappointed  with it.
last year by the time we had to head home the temperature was already starting to reach the mid-90's, so yea, that was reaching hot status for me.
while this is a nice idea, it's kind of a pain when everyone in your party wants something different because you then have to get in different lines.
it was just easier to pay a  flat rate for food and be done with it.
in 2009 appetizers still were not part of the basic dining plan, nor was gratuity so for just about every meal we paid something out of pocket.
snack so  what's with appetizers for kids only?
if you could swap appetizers for desserts.
the price for 2010, basic dining plan varies  by season; $41.99 or $46.99 per night per adult, $11.99 or $12.99 per night per  child, depending on the time of year.
whereas i was in the middle of the room, and that was  a fine view for me.
i've been trying to think of rides and attractions that would be a wonderful experience for my grandmother on our upcoming trip and i really think she will enjoy a 20 minute ride on this legendary riverboat!
on the bright side, the food was tasty but for the portions, i think it was overpriced.
in a nutshell, it depends on your style of eating.
we sometimes like a nice dinner to finish off the day but then again, depending on our plans for the day, dinner might just be a burger and fries, topped off with some ice cream!
i really didn't have anything to share with wyatt so i wound up having to order something for him and paying out of pocket.
well for us, we felt compelled to have a sit down meal every day, to get our money's worth.
- bay 1 - bbq chicken and ribs - bay 2 - hot dogs and burgers - bay 3 - double cheese burgers and salads let's not forget sonny eclipse, the animatronic lounge singer.
i live in pennsylvania so by the time april rolls around i am so ready to be somewhere warm.
if you eat at an upscale restaurant, you can order the $30 entrée without concern.
normally we like a big breakfast and then just graze during the day, we don't even necessarily need a quick service meal (or a 'lunch')
we sometimes like a nice dinner to finish off the day but then  again, depending on our plans for the day, dinner might just be a burger and  fries, topped off with some ice cream!
2010 recent discussion at the walt disney world (for grownups)
we plan on having breakfasts  in the villa and we will also have plenty of snacks with us as well.
seems like a lull - a time in-between when most people visit.
whereas i was in the middle of the room, and that was a fine view for me.
we don't usually want a dessert with every table service but sometimes like to have appetizers.
we had been looking forward to this meal for so long.
in the end though, we still paid extra  money,again.
and as you say, the portion sizes are what i would call  "normal", certainly not the usual disneysized portions, so while  perfect for my appetite, i wouldn't have been able to share it with anyone  without walking away hungry.
but they cost the same as disneysized portions, so  not the best bargain for a family.
skip to main | skip to sidebar family disney vacations - about me - contact - advertise - link exchange - need help planning? saturday, february 27, 2010 a deeper look into the magic kingdom saturday, february 27, 2010 here in pennsylvania we've been hit by snowstorm after snowstorm.
i will admit, when we got inside i was a bit surprised, it wasn't the atmosphere i expected.
when we were there last year we  decided to eat outside, it was pretty crowded inside, but now i know why...
design by pocket | blogger blog templates
family disney vacations loading... followers magic kingdom fun daddy with the kids grab a button!
we did not get a chance to be entertained by sonny  since we ate outside but hey, maybe this year ;) share | posted by  unbalanced libra  at 1:26 pm 5 comments links to this post labels: disney  dining, reviews is the disney dining plan worth it - part 2 sunday, february 21,  2010
you can read about that here:is the disney dining plan worth it?
now, maybe because i am used to larger portions, what we were given might have been what a 'normal' portion should be?
it was yummy but wow, $7.99?!
i say no - we ate there last trip and were very disappointed.
i really enjoyed my experience  here, but that's because i'm a solo adult.
posted by unbalanced libra at 12:47 pm 2 comments links to this post labels: magic kingdom wednesday, february 24, 2010 cosmic ray's starlight cafe wednesday, february 24, 2010 last trip we spent a lot of time in tomorrowland; between the buzz lightyear ride and the speedway, it felt like we practically lived in that area!cosmic ray's starlight cafe is in tomorrowland, it's a quick service restaurant
those are my only 2 'complaints' because really it was an awesome experience.
in fact, we typically don't want dessert at all.
i got seared sterling salmon - with ratatouille$23.99, fawn got  wild mushroom lasagna - roasted wild mushrooms, wilted arugula and spinach,  fortina, parmesan, mascarpone and ricotta cheese, rustic tomato ragout$16.99  and cj got grilled new york strip steak - served with roasted potatoes,  watercress and tomatoes tossed in caramelized shallot vinaigrette$30.99 for dessert, i ordered the famous 'chocolate wave' - served with brandied  cherries$7.99
the portions were very small.
trip planning wednesday, february 3, 2010 last minute planning wednesday, february 3, 2010 i can't wait to see cinderella's castle!
share | posted by unbalanced libra  at 12:47 pm 2 comments links to this post labels: magic  kingdom wednesday, february 24, 2010 cosmic ray's starlight cafe wednesday, february 24, 2010  last  trip we spent a lot of time in tomorrowland; between the buzz lightyear ride  and the speedway, it felt like we practically lived in that area!cosmic ray's  starlight cafe is in tomorrowland, it's a quick service restaurant
now, i am talking about the basic plan because that is what we used.
warm but not hot, very little rain and perfect sleeping temperatures!
or you wind up disappointed because the kids can't see as well as they want because they're sitting across the room.
but it was fine, we just sat outside the restaurant for a bit  and relaxed.
oh well,  eating here was an experience i will always remember
there is something for everyone at ray's and i mean everyone!
some people have asked me if i wish i were in disney world right now.
in the years that followed, almost every american town had a liberty tree – a living symbol of the american freedom of speech and assembly.
it was the best decision we ever made!
while the ship looks straight out of the 19th century, it was actually built in a dry dock on disney property for the 1971 opening of walt disney world resort.
if you could swap appetizers for  desserts.
well, of course i always wish i were in disney world (most seconds of the day) but honestly, there is no way i would want to be in the happiest place on earth and then come home to snow and cold temperatures!
featured articles being part of the disney vacation club 5 things to consider before buying bunk beds for kids visiting disney world with the kids - it's a small world is always the winner sponsors disney world packages our next disney trip october 6-10, 2012 bay lake tower!
maybe if i make a list i will be able to tackle these tasks easier!
if you've ever been to disney  you know that it's tough to plan days around meals and it's sometimes easier to  just grab a burger or a sandwich at a quick service place.
1 table-service meal * 1 appetizer ( guests ages 3-9 only) * 1 entrée * 1 dessert (lunch and dinner only) * 1 juice  (breakfast only) * 1 dessert  (lunch and dinner only) * 1 juice (breakfast only) * 1  single-serving, non-alcoholic beverage 1
in 2009 appetizers still were not part of the  basic dining plan, nor was gratuity so for just about every meal we paid  something out of pocket.
share | posted by unbalanced libra  at 4:19 pm 4 comments  links to this post labels: wdw basics coral reef restaurant review - walt disney world sunday, february  14,
there has been some debate on whether or not eating at the coral reef is not only worth your time but your money as well.
in a nutshell, it depends on your  style of eating.
we ordered them because they came with the meal and we paid for them but  we prefer appetizers, which aren’t included.
what you found to be "dreary"  decor, i found to be typical adult restaurant colors and soothing, dim  lighting.
the flip side gray, author of solofriendly.com, left a comment that i feel is worth adding to this post: you've got a good point here.
when we were there last year we decided to eat outside, it was pretty crowded inside, but now i know why...
heck, $42  a day for 1 meal, 1 quick service and 1 snack and you get 1 resort-refillable  drink mug per person.
(i realize the deluxe plan does include an  appetizer for adults.)
in memory of austin wuennenberg labels - animal kingdom (1) - animal kingdom lodge (3) - bay lake tower (16) - beach club resort (3) - blog related (1) - characters (1) - cruise (3) - disney 2012 plans (4) - disney dining (21) - disney films (2) - disney news (13) - disney planning (3) - disney promotions (1) - disney resorts (10) - downtown disney (4) - dvc (14) - entertainment (3) - epcot (10) - events (10) - flower and garden festival (4) - general (18) - holidays (8) - hollywood studios (2) - magic kingdom (17) - march 2012 trip (9) - polynesian resort (6) - reviews (10) - rides and attractions (7) - saratoga springs resort (1) - videos (17) - wdw '08
in the years that followed, almost every american  town had a liberty tree – a living symbol of the american freedom of  speech and assembly.
in fact, we typically don't want dessert at  all.
2010 dining plan this year we won't be using the dining plan.
we didn't order an appetizer as we had the dining plan and well, appetizers aren't included in the plan.
our liberty tree is a southern live oak, quercus  virginiana, more than 100 years old.”
i know this isn't the case for you, but many families will only  go to wdw once in their lifetimes, and i'm sure they want to make sure it's the  best possible experience without any disappointments.
while the aquarium is a big draw for kids, it becomes difficult to contain children sometimes who want to run up to the glass and see the fish.
what you found to be "dreary" decor, i found to be typical adult restaurant colors and soothing, dim lighting.
freelance writing my company - how i pay for those fab disney trips!
the inside of the restaurant is designed like the lobby of a spaceship and is separated into 3 different ordering sections:
i realize it was  supposed to mimic being in the ocean and well, obviously the ocean isn't bright  and colorful...or is it?
not your typical disney themed restaurant with bright colors that would appeal to families with children.
there is limited seating  inside as well.
please  see:ddp updates for 2012 share | posted by unbalanced libra   at9:17 am 2 comments links to this post labels: disney dining saturday, february 20, 2010 disney vacation in april and may saturday, february 20, 2010  back  in march of 2009 i posted about thebest time to visit disney world and well,  here it is almost a year later and my opinion has not changed.
seems like a lull -  a time in-between when most people visit.
we don't usually want a dessert with every table service but  sometimes like to have appetizers.
in a way, i wish disney would categorize their restaurants a bit more to help guide visitors (which restaurants are appropriate for families with children, and which are best for groups without children), so it's easier to choose which restaurants will be best for you.
form prompted me to whip up this post.
you know what would be cool?
i realize it was supposed to mimic being in the ocean and well, obviously the ocean isn't bright and colorful...or is it?
but it was fine, we just sat outside the restaurant for a bit and relaxed.
which then bothers people dining next to the glass.
i really didn't have anything to share with wyatt so i wound up  having to order something for him and paying out of pocket.
the above picture is of the beach at the polynesian resort.
but when you have a child who is under 3 and is not able to be on the meal plan, you are told you can share entrees with them.
now, i am talking about the basic plan  because that is what we used.
i will admit, when we got inside i was a bit surprised, it  wasn't the atmosphere i expected.
those are my only 2 'complaints' because really it was an  awesome experience.
well, of course i  always wish i were in disney world (most seconds of the day) but honestly,  there is no way i would want to be in the happiest place on earth and then come  home to snow and cold temperatures!
there are so many other restaurants we would love to try and of course,  we have our favorites so the coral reef was a once and done.
the 17-minute trip is around tom sawyer island; the liberty belle is a faithful reproduction of the highly ornate vessels that proudly ferried people and cargo up and down the mighty mississippi river.
- can be stressful because you can find yourself planning your vacation around meals.
the poly, as it is affectionately called, is a wonderful deluxe resort and the place we have always stayed.
but when you have a child who is under  3 and is not able to be on the meal plan, you are told you can share entrees  with them.
well for us, we felt compelled to have a sit  down meal every day, to get our money's worth.
now, we are  going to be visiting in october this year so maybe i will change my mind?
i would have to say that this  restaurant is really better suited to adults dining without children than those  dining with them.
there are so many places that we visit every time  we go to wdw that we become used to seeing them and then one day they just pop  out at us!
the inside of the restaurant is designed like the  lobby of a spaceship and is separated into 3 different ordering sections: bay 1 - bbq chicken and ribs bay 2 - hot dogs and burgers bay 3 - double cheese burgers and salads while this is a nice  idea, it's kind of a pain when everyone in your party wants something different  because you then have to get in different lines.
we plan on having breakfasts in the villa and we will also have plenty of snacks with us as well.
the  cons: not much flexibility you get what’s included, with no substitutions - we really  didn’t want two desserts each day (one with our quick service lunch and  one with our table service dinner).
here is the review: after experiencing the nemo ride and checking out the aquarium for a bit, we decided to head over to thecoral reef restaurant.
can be stressful because you can find yourself planning your vacation  around meals.
this is due not only to past  experience but also to us now being dvc members.
this  time is perfect, to us at least, because it's after all the spring break  hoopla, after easter break and before memorial day weekend.
the kids were fairly well behaved.
there are so many other restaurants we would love to try and of course, we have our favorites so the coral reef was a once and done.
this year, i see the basic plan includes appetizers - for children ages 3-9.
travel snippets and more the best travel blog with destination reviews, photos and travel tips solofriendly.com a solo travel blog bay lake tower grandma and the kids more disney blogs - the disney food blog photo tour and review: the new tutto gusto wine cellar and tutto italia restaurant - disney picture of the day ºoº please take me to disneyland - disney contest blog auto racing in disney rundown - my disney blog rich ross disney studios head steps down - disney family's adventures and plans breakfast at 'ohana - mush's blog hello...is this thing on??
and as you say, the portion sizes are what i would call "normal", certainly not the usual disneysized portions, so while perfect for my appetite, i wouldn't have been able to share it with anyone without walking away hungry.
not your typical disney themed restaurant with bright colors that  would appeal to families with children.
some people  have asked me if i wish i were in disney world right now.
personally, i love this  time of year.
we ordered them because they came with the meal and we paid for them but we prefer appetizers, which aren’t included.
now, maybe  because i am used to larger portions, what we were given might have been what a  'normal' portion should be?
last year by  the time we had to head home the temperature was already starting to reach the  mid-90's, so yea, that was reaching hot status for me.
of course, this is just my opinion.
there has been some debate on whether or  not eating at the coral reef is not only worth your time but your money as  well.
- you can’t “carry over” unused portions of a meal credit – you can’t get the entrée and drink at a quick service restaurant, then get the dessert later at a different restaurant.
also, i can't forget to  mention epcot'sflower and garden festival - we love seeing all the beautiful  flowers and topiary all over epcot!
you can’t “carry over” unused portions of a meal  credit – you can’t get the entrée and drink at a quick  service restaurant, then get the dessert later at a different restaurant.
skip to main  | skip to sidebar family disney vacations saturday, february 27, 2010 a deeper look into the magic kingdom saturday, february 27, 2010   here in pennsylvania we've been hit by snowstorm after snowstorm.
the flowers and shrubbery are so stunning that time of year!
family disney vacations © 2008.
i am looking forward to being there in april/may.
allears.net walt disney world (for grownups)
the plan did allow for a dessert for each table  service.
we've hadhorrible snow storms this month and well, while  you'd think this is when i would want to go to florida and enjoy the sunshine i  gotta tell ya, i would not want to come home to snow!
the dark colors coupled with dim lighting made everything seem drab.
heck, $42 a day for 1 meal, 1 quick service and 1 snack and you get 1 resort-refillable drink mug per person.
there are so many little details i need to go over.
on the  bright side, the food was tasty but for the portions, i think it was  overpriced.
the entrees were disappointing.
1 table-service meal each table-service meal includes: * 1 appetizer ( guests ages 3-9 only) * 1 entrée * 1 dessert (lunch and dinner only) * 1 juice (breakfast only) * 1 single-serving, non-alcoholic beverage or * 1 full buffet 1 quick-service meal each quick-service meal includes: * 1 entrée * 1 dessert (lunch and dinner only) * 1 juice (breakfast only) * 1 single-serving, non-alcoholic beverage 1 snack
our liberty tree is a southern live oak, quercus virginiana, more than 100 years old.”
- paying ahead makes things easy - you don't have to worry bout the price of your meal.
i think my kids will love this one too!
- sign up on garden grocer - make a list of food items to purchase from garden grocer - look into booking a rental van for the trip (we are not driving our own vehicle) posted by unbalanced libra at 9:57 am 0 comments links to this post labels: wdw '10 trip planning newer posts older posts home subscribe to:posts (atom) welcome!
saga (33) - wdw '09 (44) - wdw '09
i live in pennsylvania so by the time april rolls around i am so ready to  be somewhere warm.
share | posted by unbalanced libra   at1:40 pm 11 comments links to this post labels: disney dining, reviews
the plan did allow for a dessert for each table service.
in the end though, we still paid extra money,again.
search this blog be a fan!
it is such a beautiful sight!
travel with the magic blogs i love!
we did not get a chance to be entertained by sonny since we ate outside but hey, maybe this year ;) share | posted by unbalanced libra at 1:26 pm 5 comments links to this post labels: disney dining, reviews sunday, february 21, 2010 is the disney dining plan worth it - part 2 sunday, february 21, 2010
but of course we would have loved to have been closer to the aquarium.
- purchase annual passes and tables of wonderland card - again, is this better to do when we get there?
i know this isn't the case for you, but many families will only go to wdw once in their lifetimes, and i'm sure they want to make sure it's the best possible experience without any disappointments.
there is limited seating inside as well.
even  though we didn't like the way it worked out, because i am lazy i just went  ahead and planned for it again for our2009 trip.
but i know we will not go back.
our home resort: our disney photos current trip photos: www.flickr.com go to familydisneytr's photostream past disney trips: www.flickr.com unbalancedlibra'sdisney photoset recent entries loading...
share | “under the roughs of the original liberty tree in boston in 1765, patriots, calling themselves “the sons of liberty,” gathered to protest the imposition of the stamp act.
you'd think that's a good deal.
now that we're dvc members we  definitely want to give other times of the year a chance so we shall see what  october brings!
in 2008 we used the basic dining plan and we were disappointed with it.
the pros: paying ahead makes things easy - you don't have to worry bout the price of  your meal.
this time is perfect, to us at least, because it's after all the spring break hoopla, after easter break and before memorial day weekend.
an actual working steam engine turns the massive paddlewheel that propels the ship forward.
share | - call disney and book magical express transportation for fawn and cherie - sign up for owner's locker - make a list of all the things i want to take along to leave in our locker - purchase hopper tickets for grandma and fawn - is this better to do when we get there?
here is the review: after experiencing the nemo ride and checking out  the aquarium for a bit, we decided to head over to thecoral reef restaurant.
our 'standard' disney vacation time frame is somewhere between the last week of april and the 3rd week of may.
oh well, eating here was an experience i will always remember
this is due not only to past experience but also to us now being dvc members.
oh well, i suppose it wouldn't be worth it  to disney as i am sure an appetizer probably cost more than a dessert.
normally we like a big breakfast and then just graze during  the day, we don't even necessarily need a quick service meal (or a 'lunch')
share | posted by unbalanced libra at1:40 pm 11 comments links to this post labels: disney dining, reviews monday, february 8, 2010 liberty square riverboat monday, february 8, 2010 photo credit i have not been on the liberty square riverboat since i was in, i think, 3rd grade!
now that we're dvc members we definitely want to give other times of the year a chance so we shall see what october brings!
soups, salads, sandwiches, chicken, bbq chicken, burgers and yummy desserts.
here is a perfect example, the liberty tree: photo  credit the plaque under the tree reads: “under the  roughs of the original liberty tree in boston in 1765, patriots, calling  themselves “the sons of liberty,” gathered to protest the  imposition of the stamp act.
it was just easier to pay a flat rate for food and be done with it.
now, we are going to be visiting in october this year so maybe i will change my mind?
the  flip side gray, author of solofriendly.com, left a comment that i  feel is worth adding to this post: you've got a good point here.
so we decided to grab lunch there one day.
if you eat at an upscale restaurant, you can order the $30  entrée without concern.
share | posted by unbalanced libra at 4:19 pm 4 comments links to this post labels: wdw basics sunday, february 14, 2010 coral reef restaurant review - walt disney world sunday, february 14, 2010 recent discussion at the walt disney world (for grownups)