she drives it home with the comment “no scientists dispute this curve”.
i can’t  imagine how many people were on the fence, but saw a video like this or read  some paper where kids came out on top… in classroom learning, and  decided from that to give up, even though they have many many advantages the  kids don’t.
this is just ridiculous.
older comments jeff winchell
adults rarely have to spend much of their time in the company of people they need to talk to but can’t; children can get very little of what they want without learning language(s).3)
want more language learning tips and  cool links delivered to your inbox, as well as two free chapters of thelanguage  hacking guide?
i will reply to all comments in any language listed on the right with the flags.
once again, for more  specifics about how i think this works on a broader scale – read my post  abouthow you are not too old to learn a language.
| 95 comments |  category: learning languages i wrote in great detail before about why adults are much better  language learners than kids, but now linguists are starting to chime  in!
contact me travel china using the mandarin i learned in 3 months!
but when they get taken seriously by the public, then i have to take a stand against it.
dealing with a french waiter is nothing compared with the vicious reception in store for a child who speaks funny.”
embarrassment is a prime motivating factor for human beings (i owe this  insight to marvin minsky’s the society of mind, but it was most memorably expressed by david berlinski (in black mischief, p. 129), who noted that  of all emotions, from rage to depression to first love, only embarrassment  can recur, decades later, with its full original intensity).
i love reading them you don’t even have to write in english!
join the language hacking league by entering your e-mail on the  top-right of the site!
i hope to have the ammunition to destroy this pointless demotivator.
are unnecessarily nasty and mean to me or any other commenter or otherwise totally inappropriate.
if you have ageneral language learning question, please  ask itin the forums.
she doesn’t have a clue what she’s talking about because she actually researchesbabies.
join the language hacking league by entering your e-mail on the top-right of the site!
they can devote almost their full time to it.
their peers are nastier.
adults consider half an  hour’s study a day to be onerous.2)
their motivation is intense.
contact me join over ¼ million monthly readers!
any sloppy research that comes up on this is arguing against an army of people that disprove it.
she drives it home with the comment “no  scientists dispute this curve”.
age no excuse for failing to learn a new language – new  scientist researchers realised that there are crucial differences in how adults vs  children learn and tried to demonstrate it in this research.
when they did, surprise surprise,adults come out on top.
millions of adults around the world learn languages to excellent levels fine all the time.
in some cases, it’s harder and takes a wee bit  more time, but it’s definitely not impossible.
she doesn’t have a clue what she’s talking about because she  actually researchesbabies.
can’t  wait to see what you have to write… don’t be shy!!
this article was written by benny lewis comments: if you liked this post or have anything to say, please leave a comment!
2. are irrelevant to the particular post they follow, or leave a link to a site that is totally irrelevant or are clearly spam.
there is a stupid rumour going around that you can’t learn a language  after a certain age (was it 6, or 12, or 14?
this stuff really pisses me off as the “research” tests in a context and environment thatchildren are bound to win on anyway (such as traditional classroom learning) and doesn’t test in areas that adults would be better at.
older comments the language hacking league join thousands and get free language  hacking tips, cool links, site updates &two free chapters of thelanguage hacking guide!
she also claims that age one is where we can can  no longer distinguish foreign sounds any more; “you and i can’t do  that… we can discriminate the sounds of our own language, but not those  of foreign languages”.
i’ve had some frustration with some linguists in the past when they make remarks that they can’t back up withrelevant research, which serve no purpose but todiscourage learners.
so maybe you can use this to turn the  subject on its head and show adults, who want to learn other languages, why  they too can learn as easy as kids.
once again, for more specifics about how i think this works on a broader scale – read my post abouthow you are not too old to learn a language.
seriously ted, you need to get me to speak up on one of your stages so i can undo the damage of this previous talker, as well as destroy people’s own misconceptions.
i was just on google plus, and my friend joop shared this link with me so i thought i had to get it on the blog: age no excuse for failing to learn a new language – new scientist researchers realised that there are crucial differences in how adults vs children learn and tried to demonstrate it in this research.
use a commenter name of a business or brand instead of a human being or a spammy temporary disposable e-mail service, or a clearly fake address.
any sloppy research that comes  up on this is arguing against an army of people that disprove it.
want more language learning tips and cool links delivered to your inbox, as well as two free chapters of thelanguage hacking guide?
after some focused  training, and sometimeseven just a few seconds of paying attention,  and you’ll hear it.
i can’t imagine how many people were on the fence, but saw a video like this or read some paper where kids came out on top… in classroom learning, and decided from that to give up, even though they have many many advantages the kids don’t.
after some focused training, and sometimeseven just a few seconds of paying attention, and you’ll hear it.
in some cases, it’s harder and takes a wee bit more time, but it’s definitely not impossible.
this stuff really pisses me off as the “research” tests in a  context and environment thatchildren are bound to win on anyway (such as traditional classroom learning) and doesn’t test in areas that  adults would be better at.
join over ¼ million monthly readers!
use a commenter name of a business or brand instead  of a human being or a spammy temporary disposable e-mail service, or a clearly  fake address.
seriously ted, you need to get me to speak up on one of your stages so i  can undo the damage of this previous talker, as well as destroy people’s  own misconceptions.
just keep in mind that i’ll delete any comments that: 1.
your own adventures are examples of the  first two points.
i forget where the drunk blind man threw the dart that we have been basing this on) and consideringi myself started properly at age 21, and how many people have been sharing their own success stories with me (if you have one, make sure to share it with all of us in the fi3m forum’s success stories section – the best ones will get showcased on the blog!)
i realize that you don’t like to put yourself in  situations like number 3, but living in a foreign country, i find that even as  an adult, i get #3 from time to time.
there is a stupid rumour going around that you can’t learn a language after a certain age (was it 6, or 12, or 14?
hey benny, i found this summary (http://www.zompist.com/whylang.html)  of why typical kids learn languages easier than typical adults, which  doesn’t get into fmri research about the brains of kids under 5: “innate abilities aside, children have a number of powerful advantages: 1)
adults rarely have to spend much of their time in the company of people  they need to talk to but can’t; children can get very little of what  they want without learning language(s).3)
i don’t like it, but i suppose it is good for me.
i hope to have the ammunition to destroy this  pointless demotivator.
i love reading them you don’t even have  to write in english!
when they did,  surprise surprise,adults come out on top.
millions of adults around the world learn  languages to excellent levels fine all the time.
fortunately this is not the case for all linguists, and now popular  research is backing up what i’ve been saying all along!
so maybe you can use this to turn the subject on its head and show adults, who want to learn other languages, why they too can learn as easy as kids.
i was just on google plus, and my friend joop shared this link with me so i  thought i had to get it on the blog:
this article was written by benny lewis comments: if you liked this post or have anything  to say, please leave a comment!
———————————– hey benny, i found this summary (http://www.zompist.com/whylang.html) of why typical kids learn languages easier than typical adults, which doesn’t get into fmri research about the brains of kids under 5: “innate abilities aside, children have a number of powerful advantages: 1)
contact me copyright ©
among the worst examples include an otherwise interesting ted talk about the linguistic genius of babies – in it she shows us a bullshit  graph about the “critical period” for learning a language where all hope is lostfrom age 17.
just keep in mind that i’ll delete any comments  that: 1.
linguists who are working for the greater good
if you have ageneral language learning question, please ask itin the forums.
as far as i’m concerned this is totally irrelevant research,as well as being unhelpful.
among the worst examples include an otherwise interesting ted talk about the linguistic genius of babies – in it she shows us a bullshit graph about the “critical period” for learning a language where all hope is lostfrom age 17.
i will reply to all comments in any language listed on the  right with the flags.
dealing with  a french waiter is nothing compared with the vicious reception in store  for a child who speaks funny.”
but when they get taken seriously by the public, then i have to take a stand  against it.
adults consider half an hour’s study a day to be onerous.2)
as far as i’m concerned this is totally  irrelevant research,as well as being unhelpful.
2. are irrelevant to the particular post  they follow, or leave a link to a site that is totally irrelevant or are  clearly spam.
she also claims that age one is where we can can no longer distinguish foreign sounds any more; “you and i can’t do that… we can discriminate the sounds of our own language, but not those of foreign languages”.
let me know your thoughts on this in the comments!
i don’t like  it, but i suppose it is good for me.
the most discouraging ted talk ever i’ve had some frustration with some linguists in the past when they  make remarks that they can’t back up withrelevant research, which serve no purpose but todiscourage learners.
my talk about "how to speak  from day 1" join over ¼ million monthly readers!
learning with texts previous post: easy lifestyle adjustments to get a huge boost when things  are going slowly next post: how to learn to speak your 2nd language as if it were your 16th:  the polyglot edge the linguistic genius of adults: research confirms we’re better  learners than kids!
are unnecessarily nasty and mean to me or any other commenter or  otherwise totally inappropriate.
2011 fluent in 3 months - design by the brilliant charfish design
fortunately this is not the case for all linguists, and now popular research is backing up what i’ve been saying all along!
can’t wait to see what you have to write… don’t be shy!!
i realize that you don’t like to put yourself in situations like number 3, but living in a foreign country, i find that even as an adult, i get #3 from time to time.
but that’s not you, so don’t worry!
i forget where the drunk blind man  threw the dart that we have been basing this on) and consideringi myself  started properly at age 21, and how many people have been sharing their own  success stories with me (if you have one, make sure to share it with all of us  in the fi3m forum’s success stories section – the best ones will  get showcased on the blog!)
your own adventures are examples of the first two points.
embarrassment is a prime motivating factor for human beings (i owe this insight to marvin minsky’s the society of mind, but it was most memorably expressed by david berlinski (in black mischief, p. 129), who noted that of all emotions, from rage to depression to first love, only embarrassment can recur, decades later, with its full original intensity).
particularly at work.
previous post: easy lifestyle adjustments to get a huge boost when things are going slowly next post: how to learn to speak your 2nd language as if it were your 16th: the polyglot edge | 95 comments | category: learning languages i wrote in great detail before about why adults are much better language learners than kids, but now linguists are starting to chime in!