it’s a great way for people like you to ask questions about money, and, best of all, it’s a chance to help others solve their problems.
look into how much it will cost per month to add a child to your policy and think about how you will set aside enough to cover your entire deductible if you have to.
are we talking an extra $100 a month — or an extra thousand?
if you don’t have family to pitch in, plan for at least $50 a month for babysitting for one date night.
most of that cost is his daycare, some of it is food that mainly he eats (waffles!), some of it is impulse purchases (the new comb and brush after he does a great job getting a haircut).
it’s a good idea to try them in the car before purchasing.
once she’s consistently eating the same food we eat, that will go down.
our older two kids had half-day, while our youngest will have full-day as our school district is moving to full-day this fall.
reply i think you overacted to her comment.
on any given saturday i can (and do for resale) go out and buy like new baby clothes, toys, and supplies for dirt cheap.
instead of buying them school lunches, which were costing almost $5 each per day for my sons, we started sending them to school with packed lunches.
check your maternity coverage, as well as what coverage you will have if your child is born prematurely or with any kind of health problem.
you just budget and do it.
last time i checked parents are usually the “adults” in the parent-child relationship (even if both parties are legal adults) and have control over the decisions they are making.
(whether you work part-time or not at all, or you still work full-time but now can’t put in extra hours — it’s all time you could have spent earning more money.
just put the seat in the middle and go!
so far it has just come to us in the form of presents and hand-me-downs.
there’s also someplace online that has a forum that talks about car/carseat matches.
i should mention that we will soon start saving up for her college at the tune of abour $300 per month.
consider the amount of money it costs to go to the job, gas, clothes, lunch, child care, lost time for sick baby, doctor visits.
clothes are minimal, first grandbaby means she’s received gifts and we also gratefully accepted friends’ hand me downs (most were in great condition).
mostly goes to doctor visit co-pays, prescriptions, etc.
i had the opportunity to be ‘off the teat’, as you so dismissively put it, at age 23 but if i’d stayed in the career i was in then i would have been limiting myself to much lower earnings which (among other things) would have made it difficult for me to support my family in later years.
there is no “girl” or woman.
childcare is expensive.
must be around $1200 a month.
the original cost of the cloth diapers that we use ran us about $400 but they are well worth it
that might be the yearly cost, prorated loading....
when they are super younger, if you don’t have hand-me-downs, clothing can be very expensive.
how would you advise prospective parents to prepare financially?
(perhaps ordering online cuts that cost.
both with over 100k miles.
also: orchestra camp, 1 week, about $300.
weeks they are here run about $200 in groceries, weeks they’re not run about $150.
you can go used, just buy new parts and only use the used moter.
if you don’t want to respond to the question, fine, but please spare us your lecture, which is irrelevant to the issue posed.
because you can withdraw your roth contributions to help fund their college tax and penalty free at any time.
the biggest change since having our baby is health insurance premiums went up.
health care: we had one chronically ill infant who was in & out of the doctor’s office, and our second required tens of thousands of dollars of surgeries & appointments with a big-city specialist to prevent problems & worries later in life.
the rest of that was for diapers- i stocked up because of a good sale.
dr. visits outside the norm may or may not be considered emergency expenses.
reply i’ll just give you a snapshot of where we’re at; you can use it to compare to other commenters’ age scenarios.
it’s the other things that can get tricky.
while i’ll probably never be able to pay them back, i’m going to make sure i look after them in old age.
and you will likely be able to cash flow some.
so now is the time to be reproducing!
when my son was born, we had a 4-door mitsubishi lancer (about the size of a civic) and that worked just fine for us.
easier to get junior in and out of carseats that way.
other costs will depend on how much you decide to spend.
reply i like your mindset about making it work with what you have.
visit referenced sites for current  information.
i don’t go out drinking or partying, unless it’s a house party.
– i think there’s a girl… look back at a recent post… (you’ll need to click on a link)
so right now, the total is about $130 per month, $280 if we include giving the mother in law money.
now my 16 yo attends a parochial school, participates in band and follows a dress code.
how can you possibly support yourself, a family, and your parents on a starving artist’s income?
fast forward to today: i’m a single mom and the economy is in the pits.
first off, it would mean lots of couponing in the grocery store, learning to cut hair, scouring thrift shops and yard sales, and oral care at the dental school.
(you can get them for free on craigslist, but they usually cost a fortune to move and tune.
when our first was born we had a vw jetta and a mazda protege.
reply we moved from a graco to a rear-facing convertible britax in our 4 door subaru legacy when my daughter was 7 mo old – it was a tight squeeze until it could be forward facing.
we spend at least $45 on diapers and $7 on wipes (we buy in bulk at sams – so 1 box of wipes lasts us at least 2 months.
i only buy items at consignment, etc.
i cover the rest: my travel, school supplies (i’m talking bags of porcelain here, not a biro), mandatory trips and gallery visits, clothing, food, the list goes on and on.
i bet it’s even better for the 1%ers… all those 99%ers you can hire for cheap.
the flip side is we eat out less, we see fewer movies, we are not doing any major renovation at the house until he’s more mature… so there is some savings there.
my kids are doing fine.
even if it means going through 3 carseat stages before hitting booster stage rather than 2.
as they got older, i purchased high quality toys and clothes at yard sales.
i’ve posted about a lot of the ways we’ve saved money in my baby on a budget series:http://preservingpennies.com/category/baby-on-a-budget/ we cloth diaper most of the time and i make my own wipes.
what will your copays be for well baby and shots and occasional illness.
reply we have 2 teenage sons, 14 and 16.
you don’t need a changing table – put a pad on top of a waist high dresser.
thankfully i have not relied on my mother financially since i moved out when i was 20, probably to my own detriment no matter how much i tried to muscle it completely on my own.
if that's all we're talking about, less than $200 is difficult but doable.
i mean, it could be significant if your opinions on the matter are wildly divergent.
formula: http://thefamilyfinances.com/2012/03/07/the-costs-of-raising-baby-formula-2/ diapers: http://thefamilyfinances.com/2012/03/14/the-costs-of-raising-baby-diapers/ clothes: http://thefamilyfinances.com/2012/03/21/the-costs-of-raising-baby-clothes/ loading....
i just puree whatever fruits and vegetables we already have in the house.
“to anyone contemplating having a child — do it!
the sheer selfishness of some people, bringing lives into the world that might not live at the extremely high materialistic level we’ve become accustomed to the last 40+ years.
clothing can be expensive, but we off-set the costs by selling their old toys and clothes at a bi-annual swap and buying “new” clothes from other consignors.
i breastfed, and the most expensive thing was the pump @ $300 for a new pump.
that worked up until they were about 8 to 10.
trying to save money for college, really you should budget in quite a bit for that from day 1.
we have pretty good benefits that pay for baby chiropractic visits (yup) and the couple of prescriptions we’ve needed.
big children need more, not all that much more sometimes, but still i would say save the baby money you want to spend for later.
while we no longer pay for montessori pre-school, we do pay for his education in many ways.
so team fees, shoes and other personal equipment, entrance fees for games (football and basketball) team parties, team fund raisers, our turn to take team snacks…
we also get about $140 a month from the government for him.
in the end, we spent about $1000 to get our daughter set up, but we also had to spend another $1000 on some medical things that came up.
all this being said, if you really have always wanted a family with children, you will never, never think about the money.
my wife saw all my kids first steps, first time they rolled over, first words, etc.
(336) ask the readers: how much do you spend on health insurance?
connected my son is 3.5 and in full-time daycare.
he also is in band, so outside lessons, instruments;
remember it’s just two years rear facing.
yes, medical expenses are what you need to plan for, and i bet that’s 10x the normal costs.
i say keep your cars and upgrade when you can save up to buy it in full.
nothing special to dad, but his kid thought it was the best ever.
her goal to raise a family one day!
my hope is that i will be back to work by the time the first enters college and we can help pay some of the tuition costs out of my income.
quite a change from being dinks.
i was really worried about paying for everything that comes with a new baby while i was pregnant, but now, i see that she doesn’t cost much at all.
it has enriched our lives so much — the exhaustion and money is a small price to pay.
however, i’ve recently realized that if i ever have another long-term relationship (and i hope i will), there’s a possibility that i’ll have children.
just take your car with you when picking out seats/strollers, to make sure they fit.
as they age, i’d say costs don’t necessary go down.
others might have a more expensive house because they want to be in a really good school district.
add your voice ask the readers share a personal story write a guest  post we want to talk to you
since my kids went to daycare our costs haven’t increased much, but they have definitely shifted around.
it sounds like you desperately need a better plan.
time to take them to daycare, appointments, school activities, sunday school.
it has enriched our lives so much — the exhaustion and money is a small price to pay.”
crib, car seats (cannot buy those used), stroller, clothes.
typical evenings out, you need a diaper bag and a stroller.
i’m 30 and having studied for my professional qualifications i’m only now fully financially independent.
as kids get older, they do get expensive.
reply i’m going to make sure i look after them in old age.
and this is the cheap camp.
those early years were tight while my son in law served his country.
this is no time for reproduction with all those bad mean people out there.
son was out with me pouring footers in subdivisions when he was just tall enough to hold the concrete chute while i did the grunt work.
hard to estimate the “miscellaneous” costs, maybe another 50.
reply dial down the concern, kevin.
in 2011, for the family of 4 we spent approximately: $2568 – apparel $1500 – non-tuition education $2000 – sports and music (not counting entrance fees or going out with the team afterwards) $1400 – braces for the 12 yo – full payment we could go on about bigger car, more food (i have teen boys), bigger house, replacing furniture they get careless with, medical and dental costs… now, of course, a lot of this is optional.
reply we live in southern ohio and have a 3 year old and one on the way.
so true, if you feel strongly about kids, there is no compromise.
they prefer to work for others right now because they know that business owners have no time that is really “off” or “free” but are quite capable of running their own businesses and, indeed, have in the past.
is a money merge account a good way to pay off your mortgage?
however, the rear-facing seat leaves only just enough room for my wife to sit up front.
it’s not a decision to be taken lightly.
for the love of god, please only have children if you are 100% sure you’re ready and you want to make the sacrifices required to be a parent.
as they move to toddlerhood you’ll probably need a booster seat for at the table and some kind of potty seat.
she’s likely got at least 30 years before she will actually be supporting her parents, if indeed that is necessary.
thankfully we have great health insurance, but if we didn’t this would have sunk us.
our daughter is 4 months old.
small expenses are picked up by either parent ( we also have our own allocations).
it doesn’t quite make the full projected tuition at a private school, but there’s the chance dc will get merit scholarships, we’ll be living in a state with a good flagship, etc.
for my babies, i spent very little.
you can’t even take care of yourself.
reply i think you’re either confusing ru with her brother or projecting other people’s issues on her.
lessons & classes: viola $50 a week, aikido $90 a month school trips: variable, of course, but our viola player has both jazz band and orchestra trips.
maybe that’s why kate wrote recently to ask a question that hadn’t ever occurred to me.
most plans cover well child visits 100% (and will have to under health care reform)
i’m just trying to understand your rationale.
maybe another $30 a month but soon we’ll start making and blending it ourselves to help with that too.
also, she’ll start day care when she’s 2 and prices for that are ranging from $600-$1100 per month.
children do get more expensive as they get older.
not impossible but definitely not pleasant.
diaper service cost us $60/month, and then there was the odds-n-ends of clothes, medicines, etc.
thankfully we have plenty of room in our budget to handle these costs, but i sure will be glad when we are done paying for daycare!
but it doesn’t need to be a big one.
i’m not a history or sociology student, waltzing in for 3 hours of lectures a week.
my whole life i’d been trying to live up to this future they’d projected on to me (they wanted a scientist or a doctor), and then when i left school i was not only working full time but looking after my boyfriend who had severe depression.
i’m learning something new every day about this baby business:)
the carseat had to go in the middle and it got cramped if anyone else was sitting in the backseat but it was just fine for 2 adults and baby.
most of our daughter’s clothes are used (either bought used or is handed down).
topic: money talks: tips on talking about money with your family when: wednesday, december 7th at 4:00pm est get an email reminder ... manage your financesmanage your finances the “ask the readers” feature has always been popular at get rich slowly.
http://abdmama.wordpress.com/2012/03/21/putting-where-my-mouth-is/ the birth of our first child cost almost exactly our additional tax credit for that first year.
but other than that, most everything can be used – clothes, crib, books, toys.
now they go to a two week sleep-away camp in the summer (and hang out at home the rest).
this is one of the few deal-breaker issues in a marraige that can’t be worked out with compromise.
home daycare costs about half as much as the large daycare facilities.
those prices are simply outrageous.
reply i think you can do it with a two door so long as you find a seat that fits.
they basically said that a kid needs more stuff than you think.
maybe special detergent for the first few weeks to wash clothes.
i started buying diapers on sale from the day i found out i was pregnant.
negative population growth is not good for an economy that continuously needs more money pumped into it to survive.
this isn’t about “i have enough money to live comfortably for my retirement years” — if you have to step over a thousand beggars just to get to the grocery store, that’s not going to be a happy retirement (hyperbole, i know).
that means the second kid can’t reuse the first kid’s car seat or stroller, and though you don’t really have to buy two of everything, you do need twice as many shoes, diapers, etc.
we’ve had a couple different situations since they were born, but it has averaged about $1600/month just for regular care while we work.
however, the benefits should also be considered.
we’ll get one that needs a major mechanical overhaul and then do the work ourselves.
she just started eating food, but we don’t buy baby food.
shame on all the indulgent fools during the great depression, wwi, wwii, other wars, the red scare, all much scarier times than now, who decided to selfishly propagate despite uncertain futures.
for a family of 4, our grocery budget is $600 a month.
wow, i have no idea a dollar amount.
don’t buy expensive clothes or fancy outfits – you’re little one will ruin them once you start feeding real food!
there are no real expenses outside of what i have outlined.
but that’s hard to add up and not really necessary.
i work from home, so childcare isn’t on our expenses.
there’s no duty for parents to support children into their adult years, but some choose to do so.
(we personally don’t require a lot of chores from ours, but don’t forget that even quite early on, kids can start contributing work to the family unit.)
you’ll find something to fit though, don’t worry!
want a skate board or a new bicycle?
we had great medical insurance so medical costs were neglibable.
that i would estimate are another $100/month.
some of it is the extra cost of travel (technically he could fly free until he was two but has had his own seat since he was about 15 months because oh my mama needs a little room to breathe while being super zen on a plane).
this is the rationale used by every naive teenager who thinks that having a baby is the perfect solution to life’s problems.
at the end of the day, i think it’s about priorities.
you either have children or you don’t.
somethings we absolutely bought new, like our carseat and crib (and this we did because of safety concerns).
there are lots of people picking up money on the side by having groups of children stay in their homes while parents work.
we bought a gently used electric piano, but it was still several hundred dollars.)
when she was very little, we had the added cost of formula – probably $40 – $60 per month.
he is given $80 a month for his lunches/allowance.
i too think that children get a lot more expensive as they age.
from a grandparent pov.
i also started a college saving plan of about $150 per month.
we get more of her seasonal and short term baby gear from a nice consignment store in the area.
unless you make a ton of money the childcare and doctor’s visits will eat up your earnings from the job.
i think this would be a lot more if i stayed home, but then i wouldn’t have daycare costs.
i do want to point out that the marginal cost for each additional child is not as much as those initial costs.
this does not count the fsa tax break but also doesn’t include groceries, which probably cancel each other out.
by the same token if one of you stays at home, that can also be a cost-only you can do the math.
i’d also recommend a new car seat, just for the safety features/requirements.
and that means that you get to be at work for the bare minimum of any regular job–9ish to 5ish.
from talking with friends and family who have kids, quite a few have sort of laughed at us when we told them that we weren’t planning on buying a bigger car.
while spending <$200 per month on a child is doable, it's not easy and in my opinion, it's not ideal.
these informal arrangements are usually the ones that end up on the evening news for unfortunate reasons.
and some things you see “suggested” we didn’t get at all.
how many people do you know who blew off college and partied just because it wasn’t on them to pay for it?
some children are raised with the expectation that their parents will support them through college – just because she appears to be one of these people does not make her a bad person.
in the 60s, it was the cuban missile crisis.
she didn’t make any mention of having her own family yet, she just observed how much she’d cost her parents over the years.
and you’ll be in your office all day trying to achieve 8oz for the next day.
so it’s better for your children.
she wants to know how much you spend on kids.
you can skip many of the things you’re marketed for a baby and be perfectly fine.
food costs about $60 – $70 per month because she’s not 100% on our food.
we pay around $300 per month per child for after-school care, and another $300 per week for our kids to go to the town rec dept camp in summer, or to child care on school vacations.
we get most of his toys and clothing at consignment, he is still in night diapers.
i know the saying goes something like, “you’ll never be financially ready for a kid, so you just have to go for it” (that’s the sentiment, at least), but now is a particularly bad time especially if you’re reliant on someone else’s whim for a paycheck.
it’s a bit unfair to, in your first sentence accuse your brother of being a bum, and in the next sentence admit that his contribution of cash is part of the money financing your education!
because of these things our ongoing costs have been very low.
one additional expense with children is good life insurance- a must!
he plays sports all year around – football, basketball, soccer, baseball.
in fact i didn’t run into any home daycare providers who were not licensed.
medical/dental: $100/month, but sometimes we are under-funded here, like if someone needed braces, we’d have to figure that out.
and i say this as someone whose child almost never asks for “stuff”– even if you’ve managed to raise a non-materialistic child, they can still be expensive at school age.
personally, it’s so not fair for someone to change their mind after they married someone who doesn’t want them.
activities such as dance and music lessons, after school programs, presents for birthdays, etc.
i think the biggest thing is, if you’re going to have kids, plan on spending more time than anything else.
between grandparents, birthday presents, and always having a best friend there to play with, our kids don’t need anything else, and don’t even ask for much.
reply fwiw, not every mother who plans to breastfeed finds that she is able to.
it’s not as easy to creatively save your way out of an unexpected $10,000 hospital bill.
reply i totally agree with eve’s comment – babies can be super-cheap.
questions get the most responses.
so if you have an easy pregnancy, easy delivery and well child these costs can be minimal.
you will never get rid of us.
it was much cheaper as we did second hand “mommy swap” clothing for an infant, but found it doesn’t work well for toddlers.
i think the toughest part is knowing i won’t be able to help them out with college much.
and the cost varies so much from month to month and child to child it’s impossible to put forth an accurate projected figure for someone else.
i’ve recently just shoppped for braces for another one of our kids and nobody is willing to do them in the philly area for less than 5 grand!
another variable is whether your school district has half-day or all-day kindergarten.
i haven’t seen anyone else mention the cost of housing.
some of it is the cost of babysitting on date night.
even if you were never 100% on having kids, being with somebody that is 100% on not having kids seems like it would be very difficult.
(of course, i am just speculating.
we don’t make a lot of money but we are careful and we have a pretty good life.
2- my parents do have a pension, they’re not idiots.
yet our poor abused kids turned out to be competent, independent adults with many skills that are getting paid more than the friends’ and relatives’ kids who got a free ride through college.
not sure why my insurance changed, but it did.
find a way for the mom or dad to stay home with the baby for the first 2 years at a minimum.
i was lucky enough to get some work audio typing, but it’s very ad-hoc, so i’m only making about £90 a month.
for the littlest two, we’re not doing education plans for a little while.
this is one of those discussions where i’ll have to bow out.
are you intested in just baby costs or lifetime costs?
but please, please, please try to eat some fish loading....
i kind of do, even now.
and i just had our first child — she is now 6 months old — so i’m not sure how objective i can be on this subject since it is still so new!!
even the experiences, your kids will want your time more than anything else.
(when/if we have a second kid, that’s a different story.)
while i find it very admirable that some people turn 18 and immediately become self-sufficient, that’s not how it works for everyone.
we never spent much on baby food.
we’re fairly sure a second car seat will fit in there too (though we’re hoping dc will have graduated to a booster by then so it won’t be quite so cramped with the infant + 5 year old).
i’m sure you never had any help at all, you did everything by yourself, opened every door that got in your way.
reply steve, don’t let the “jonses’” influence you.
for some reason i’m having a devil of a time posting it to him.
my daughter is 13mo and is not in daycare (i work at home and my boss is ok with me watching her while i work).
something that caused me to spend a lot more on kids that i would have planned for is that i had twins.
either way, kids cost a lot of money.
the financial adviser recommends more than $500/mo/kid?
i’m sure we spend at least 3k total each month on our kids, probably more and that doesn’t include private and parochial school tuitions.
reply we’ve had to spend very little on clothing.
toys and equipment- you don’t need to buy toys.
she’s finishing up her degree, and lots of students have help from their parents in university.
(376) what are the differences between the rich and the poor?
i would say that we contributed $200 a month for the first year.
(we don’t have dental insurance).
this is what i plan to do if i ever do decide to have children.
clothing/toys is really negligible, since there are so many used options, but childcare is really expensive!
huge mistake that was.
the cost of child care can also vary significantly within a metro area.
we could live like kings on half our current income once the kids are grown and gone.
and adding her to our health insurance was about $80/month.
the good news is that baby costs are pretty fixed so it’s possible to budget.
also, if you plan on ever going out, the rate for a sitter is $12-15/hour for anyone who knows how to change a diaper and isn’t a felon.
this is why many women quit their jobs–paying for daycare often takes their entire takehome pay or close to it, especially for more than one kid.
coupon for diapers and , most of all, love your child!
not things like glasses and health coverage, obviously, but those extra classes and camps and cool clothes and videogames and the big mini-van and so on.
the car seats become smaller after that and for the most part a <2 year old can climb into their own seat and all you have to do is lean back there and do their buckles.
if you are thinking of having children it is wise to investigate the costs.
she isn’t doing anything to her parents.
i don’t have kids myself, but i’ve noticed a big variation among my friends.
but seriously, she’d rather bang two empty soda cans together than play with her real toys… healthcare – we’re lucky b/c she isn’t in daycare (so she’s had 2 colds) and we have great insurance (so we pay nothing for well baby visits).
but it popped in my head and now i think i’m on to something!)
what is your attitude to new and used stuff.
amazon for diapers is a great deal.
definitely check sizes in person — the two big problems you will have with a smaller car are getting a stroller into the trunk (some of the super-strollers are huge even when folded) and getting some rear-facing seats in.
i spend zero dollars per month on children because, so far, i’ve elected not to have any.
she’s just started solid foods and it’s not very expensive yet.
she never claimed she would be a starving artist (shockingly, there are artists that actually make money), and she acknowledged she’s still in school.
keep in mind that the most important thing to a child is the love from their parent(s).you might not see that now, but in the long run it proves out.
my husband and i limit our kids to two extracurricular activities each, and we pay $500-$700 per month on this depending on what the kids are doing at any given time.
no, i live in a box room in camberwell in an ex-council flat i share with 4 other people.
but my wife and i always wonder what people give up with the $1000 a month daycare.
it’s scary out there!
see, we all worked in this household.
my cat costs $25.00 a month (at most) and it’s all the nurturing i need to give.
i think things look pretty grim for the youth right now, sadly.
every day we wonder how we filled the hours of our day before she was born!
could it be done more cheaply?
the grs garden project the road to wealth is paved with goals homemade gifts how to buy a mattress a yard sale checklist: 10 tips for garage sale prep how i cut my television bill in half ten things your supermarket wont tell you how to make more money on ebay mortgage prepayment made easy: own your home in half the time embracing the thrift store ethic: 18 tips for buying used clothes how to win the lottery how to buy a side of beef how much should i spend on an engagement ring?
obviously, some of those expenditures are optional, but if you have enough money available to pay for those amenities and educational experiences, it is hard to refuse and decide to save it instead; there’s the feeling of intentionally depriving your child.
or a diaper jeanie-gag (string of diaper pearls anyone).
we have a 10 month old and we’ve spent very little money on him so far.
dh’s honda civic is positively roomy in the back with the britax.
how much do i need to save for retirement?
reply i’m definitely feeling the “kid free” movement right now.
my money could be off but this was what would be necessary for her to have a 4 year education at a cheaper school.
under what circumstances?
and we will be able to use them for subsequent children (or re-sell them).
draw up the plans and get a list of the raw materials.
when i had my kids, i thought the expense would go down as they got older.
this could be avoided if you “traded” with another couple with kids.
i love our radian but it is tall, we could have never used it rear-facing.
look around your community for mom sales (they happen a lot).
we’re now on the family plan instead of a couple, so it’s about $200 extra a month.
i can’t tell if your comment was tongue-in-cheek, but i didn’t detect even a twinge of guilt in what you’re doing to your parents.
anyone else clue in on this as well?
(436) basic tips on tipping: how much and to whom?
that being said, there’s a lot of start up costs before things settle in.
in contrast, i only spent $56 in october and $25 of that was his halloween costume which i made and $6 of it was for a toy.
we found generics to be a waste because they had to be changed more and often didn’t hold at night.
i breastfeed and make my own baby food.
reply assuming you’re in the u.s., what kind of health benefits do you have?
i mostly made my own baby food.
for college, we save $169/month into a regular savings account for my oldest son, which he matches.
if both parents work: daycare.
it can be hard to resist toys and things that we think that she’ll like
the baby justs wants you to love it.
they really add up, but there are ways to soften the blow.
and i generally knew within minutes on the phone they happened.
big one last year to vienna – $2500.
my sons are 16 and 12.
reply matt, by all means, have as many children as you like.
we could pack ourselves, our son, and our dog up in the car for weekend trips to my dad’s house with no issue.
we spent about 700$ in preparing for our baby (car seats, etc.).
reply such variation in this expense!
1- i don’t plan to have natural children.
they go thru 3 different sizes in the first year alone.
one thing i have noticed is that kids don’t seem any happier with new stuff than with used loading....
even public school is not without costs for fundraisers.
there’s nobody ahead of her to inherit clothes from and i’m trying to warm my wife up to the idea of buying second-hand clothing.
you find yourself needing the bigger house in the better school district which costs more.
however, for me, some of the hardest costs to calculate are lifestyle changes that happen based on lack of time or energy.
this one should cost something like $90 with the three copays i’ll have to pay.
toys – christmas & her birthday are close, so we spent about $200 between the two.
i always assumed (maybe i read too much into things) that you and kris both did not want children.
i realize there are a lot of costs when it comes to having and raising a child, from clothes to diapers to child care to toys to car seats.
i could have achieved what i have without any support from my parents, but i would have accrued more debt (at minimum) and it would have made many things more difficult.
(unless they’re going to make a career out of dance, it really doesn’t matter much!)
my wife’s parents also made her get a job early for money, and they babysat and mowed yards to save up for a lot of stuff.
that’s about $54k per kid without compounding interest.
not only more space, but as you get older there is pressure to live in a town with a good public school system, nice parks & playgrounds, and safe.
the world is a scary place, indeed, but if you’re cowering in the corner and waiting for it to get better before you have kids, you’ll never have them.
this right here is why we are not having more children.
babies need: -somewhere safe to sleep -clothes and blankets to keep them warm -something to catch their waste -food (breast milk, formula, etc) -parents to love them -a car seat if you plan to drive them anywhere everything else is gravy loading....
i now have two girls, newborn and 3yr.
i have an ’02 accord coupe, and everyone tells me i’m nuts for thinking it will work with a baby.
on the upside, we spend almost nothing on toys.
you could probably easily stay under $200 a month otherwise.
# 99: i’m not sure how it works in the uk, but in the u.s., adopting a child domestically from the foster care system is free.
to anyone contemplating having a child — do it!
unless she plans to stay a student forever, i imagine she’s planning on getting a job and being financially independent.
to me it's worth trying.
we’ll see how that changes when they get older (they are 4 right now) and start playing sports or getting into separate hobbies where supplies can’t be shared.
(life insurance is also a good idea, just in case.)
some people have large groups of friends and families to throw them showers, while others have smaller, close knit social circles willing to give away things other people would sell.
reply this suggests an “ask the readers” column about the cost of pets.
disposable diapers are costly, not just from their base price, but also from the increased trips to the store if you choose that option.
summer was worse because it was full-day.
i’m not talking about the time spent with them because that’s a given.
but be careful if the pump is old and overworked it won’t do the job well.
especially since they have to be rear facing for 2 years or more.
my parents could see that i wasn’t happy where i was
my oldest has a job and he buys his own video games, etc. as well as saving for college.
you can find nice, safe, inexpensive cribs.
right now we have ’01 and ’05 honda civics (both paid off and running decently).
summer care is about $150 per week per child.
unlike what tyler k says, you do not need to get a bigger car for a carseat.
some people do “baby” classes and such.
we’re spending about $60 in diapers each month and maybe $40 in clothes.
sometimes that's what we parents need to do – say no to our kids when we would rather say yes, when it might be to the child's benefit to say yes.
the plan is to save up together for community college in 2013.
the babyfood stage doesn’t last long and it takes an hour of prep time to whip up a bunch of purees for your freezer.
food, clothes, activities, and daycare are the easy things to figure out.
we’ll probably not be so strict, but i definitely think having the kids have their own skin in the game is the best.
however, just because the law says all daycare providers must be licensed doesn’t mean that they all are.
so by far, if you’re going to have kids, be prepared to sacrifice most on time.
but, on the other hand if the difference is between “100% no” and “huh, could be fun, but i don’t much care” – that doesn’t seem problematic.
regardless of what your personal opinion is, the reality is that a poor economy is going to persuade fewer people to have children.
right now we have ’01 and ’05 honda civics (both paid off and still running decently).
i’m talking about food, lessons, sports equipment and fees, braces and other dental, medical co pays and insurance, school trips, gas to drive them to practice and friends’ homes, bicycles, larger home, higher utilities, etc.
and don't forget transportation costs.
is your home appropriate for a kid, say, up to five, your will you need a new apartment or home with additional space and costs.
so, i leave kate’s question entirely in your hands, readers.
and there’s always scope for a full time office job with ceramics on the side until i’m there.
a free and simple budget planner free debt snowball spreadsheet
now you can foster kittens.
it was a little bit of a hassle getting them in and out, but was by no means impossible.
she is breastfed, so no formula cost (saves $1000-$4000/year plus breastfed babies rarely get sick, so
this summer, the grandkids will be raising rabbits, ducks, and chickens for their parents’ freezers and will have vegetable gardens, too.
she still shares our room so there’s no increased housing cost right now.
those of us who have had the privilege of that support are (mostly) extremely grateful for it.
my son has a rear-facing seat, so that requires me to climb in the backseat to take him in and out.
but there’s no doubt that the “how much do you spend?”
i think i once worked out how much i’d cost my parents over the years, in a vain attempt to see how famous an artist i’d have to become to pay them back.
with kris, this was never going to happen because she didn’t want kids.
by law, at least in my state (ca), all daycare providers have to be licensed.
i would lower your contributions to the 529 and make sure that you are maxing out your roth.
so i can pay everything back and more, but like ru, i know my realistic goal is to succeed professionally so i can support my family when they really need me.
and kids don’t need to go to the doctor for every sniffle!!!
i have plenty of time to think about those days wistfully as i fight for survival and huddle here with my brood and 300 fellow squatters in this burned out abandoned apple store under what says it was once a “genuis bar”, fighting off invaders from the nearby abercrombie camp trying to swipe our dwindling supply of potted meats and youtube videos.
$60 of that was for second hand clothes and toys that i wanted- he didn’t actually need.
my mother in law watches her during the day so that saves a ton of money.
(and if you don’t know what i’m talking about just wait until you go register for your wife’s baby shower and the stupid store gives you this gigantic list of the stuff you “need”)
reply some of the britax are smaller than others.
reply one significant kid-related cost i’ve seen mentioned in a few comments is about the need to have larger vehicles to accommodate kids.
one thing to consider is your support system.
agreed on not needing a minivan.
food is cheap – breastfeeding and basby food right now.
i buy as many of our clothes as i can used, or wait for big sales.
it depends on the lifestyle you lead, where you live, whether you have good health insurance, etc… i am married with five children ages nine and under.
at 3 it was time to send him to full time preschool (much more stimulating).
getrichslowly.org makes no representations as to the accuracy, completeness, suitability or validity of any information on this site and will not be liable for any errors or omissions in this information or any damages arising from its display or use.
reply you are absolutely correct–more people should be thinking like this.
reply $615/week on daycare for 2 kids $500/month for 529 plans (financial advisor recommends more) $100/month extra for family medical insurance $40/month diapers, wipes, boudreaux’s butt paste food, classmates’ birthday gifts, teacher holiday gifts….
one of their activities is piano, so we had to buy one of those too.
it’s hard to totally calculate based on what you’ve seen.
reply initial expenses aside, for our 6 month old.
the walmart brand is just as good as the name brands assuming you just need a regular formula.
reply ditto that note on coverage, where we live the jump from spousal coverage to a family plan seems to be at least $500 per month if you are paying for it yourself.
what a gloomy way to look at things!
you can’t predict the future, but if you assume the worst, you’ll be paralyzed.
i was put through college by my grandparents.
as they get older that will change some, but i think the teenagers who want nothing to do with their parents are that way because from 7-12 they had little to do with them.
the baby doesn’t know or care how much the crib costs or if the comforter and pillow sham match.
we both work full time.
had i stayed home longer, completed a bachelor’s degree (i have an associates) and so on, i would probably be in a much better position now.
he has gotten a little less expensive over time, but i think 5-7 are going to be the golden years (public school and not much after school activity).
my son and daughter in law are planning the same thing in a few years.
if you have a fantastic network of friends and family who will assist and support you if things get tough (as i do), then you can feel a little more confident about having children even if your financial situation isn’t perfect.
i may adopt or foster.
i recommend calling around and seeing if you can find someone who does care from their home, just a few kids.
(but isn’t that “so far” kind of interesting?i think so.)
my wife and i really did think our civics would work, but at the same time, we wanted to be prepared for the possibility that they wouldn’t.
well, y’all know where the tools are.
a safe car seat can be found for about $100.
i eat mainly vegetables and rice.
the big one is $1200 a month on child care — i just went back to work.
it is a wonderful world and we hope our grandchild will be willing and able to contribute to it in the future.
i don’t provide my kids with cell phones, laptops or any other gadget they want.
my husband and i laugh, though, when financial planners tell us we’ll need to replace 80% of our income when we retire.
that's life and life's not fair.
my own experience was that i was surprised at how cheap babies could be, and then later surprised that one might be expected to shell out $300 for a week of science camp.
for instance, two weekly music lessons; participation in theater groups, bands, and choirs; camps; sports; and public school fees add up to $3000-$4000 a year.
how to evaluate purchases.
if they don’t need it then it will just roll for your retirement.
diapers are about $25/month using amazon mom and buying a big box.
it is usually cheaper to stay home.
i also know that these costs can vary greatly, but having never been a parent before, i have no idea what the range can be.
(332) money tools  money tools using spreadsheets to learn about money powerful personal finance programs free financial spreadsheets from google docs check your federal tax refund status how to get your free credit report online should i buy it?
babies don’t need that much.
i do still put him in disposables when his grandparents have him and at night so there is an expense there ($30 every couple of months maybe).
but like i said, this is a lifestyle choice for us.
(i’ve never been able to do hand-me-downs for shoes–they get too worn out.)
besides, the world is far too crowded and many people who have kids aren’t financially, intellectually or emotionally prepared to do so.
will you want everything?
we had our baby girl last year and for the most part expenses have been minimal.
feeding supplies whether that be pads, pumps and lanolin for the nursing mom or formula for weaned babies.
they don’t actually get to have one.
more when their tiny because you have to change more.
we’ve been discussing whether we’re going to need to buy a bigger car in the next year or so.
his toys were things like wooden spoons and soup cans.
that £250 is half my rent.
(397) the official grs referral swapping thread (379) ask the readers: how much do you spend on food?
kids can cost more or less depending on the choices you make.
i can only speak to the cost of animals (specifically: 4 horses, 2 dogs, 2 cats and a bunch of chickens/ducks), but as essential dependents who require the basic necessities of food/shelter/water/love – they are freaking expensive.
everything is so volatile with our economy right now, i can’t imagine thinking it a fine time to bring a new life into the world — either for the child or for your pocketbook.
day care costs would force one of us to stay home, and neither of us is willing to give up another two years or more of work to do it.
it’s tight but it can work.
you can be creative and find ways to save with food, clothes, childcare, transportation, housing, etc.
it’s as they get older that things begin to cost more than you would think.
they basically said that a kid need more stuff than you think.
she’s still in school and her parents give her some money to help her out, which is pretty common.
if you think you do, then spend another $200-$300 on a different carseat, not several thousand (or even 10s of thousands) on another car.
find out how much you pay for well baby care and multiply that by 6 because that’s the minimum number of dr visits you’ll have in the first year.
reply we spend roughly $1,000/month – $200/week on daycare for a total of $800/month, $60/month on disposable diapers, $20/healthcare (random doctor visits because we’re new parents and don’t always know the difference between a cold and a real illness), $100/food since our daughter is an extremely picky eater and drinks a lot of milk.
will you need day care, or will one of you be a stay at home parent (a thousand dollars a month)
on the plus side, if we have another child the premiums would about stay the same.
i agree with deborah , either you do or you don’t want kids.
what opportunities will he or she have in our society?
i’d like to hear from readers about how much they spend per month on their children.
website notify me of followup comments via e-mail subscribe without commentingsubscribe to comments on this post via rss feed.
and yes i have a 16 month old, who doesn’t cost much now, which is why i’m aggresively saving for her future.
childcare was a while ago, but yes, it was expensive, even for part time after-school afternoons.
but i am not saying it as some clueless dink who has never had kids, i know exactly how much money and work it takes–we have a 10-year-old now.
often when i’m weighing a purchase i ask myself, “how did my parents do it, and how did my grandparents do it, what is different about today?”
(of course, some kids in foster care have serious emotional, physical, or cognitive issues, but no child is guaranteed to be free of such problems.)
(when my father wondered aloud one time why there were no grandchildren, my mother reminded him that i’d been saying “no raising kids for me” since i was 10.)i married a man who seemed ok with that idea, but turns out he really did want children.
even though i only budget $100 a month, it’s usually less than that now, with the bulk of it being diapers.
reply how much you spend can vary a lot, but i will say that definitely the cost goes up as the child grows.
it’s typically cheaper than a daycare facility and from what i’ve found, better care.
i didn’t realize that certain car seats may not fit.
and that’s a cash price.
their miserable wretch offspring surely got their comeuppance, what with living in houses (with a/c!), driving motorized vehicles (often enclosed), and screens displaying flickering images (from b&w to in your hand).
we hope to continue the generosity.
more nutritious than the junk they serve at school anyway, and less than half the cost.
just look at japan; awful recession in the early 90s, declining birth rates.
she tried to refuse at first
we have no childcare costs, but there is an opportunity cost with me quitting my engineering job to stay home (a decision well worth the cost, for me).
well, it sounds like you were careful, which is what i was talking about.
it’s not easy, but it’s totally possible.
drivers ed, license fees, car insurance… my 12 yo is in public school, but there was still a materials fee of about $80 for the year, plus 6th grade camp ($120), t-shirts for field day, pto carnival, skating parties, lunches, school supplies, transportation costs include his bike (recently tuned up for $80), or us driving him the mile in bad weather.
reply interesting response, ru; i share the same sentiment – 18 is not some magic number where the financial obligation ends.
i too dream of somehow ‘hitting the big time’
rates & offers from advertisers shown on this website change  frequently, sometimes without notice.
i’m a stay at home mom now, but previously when i was working, his daycare was $500 a month.
it is not necessary to upgrade if you don’t feel the need to take the whole nursery everytime you leave the house.
clothes – around $50 – but this can be less if you buy at resale / second hand shops.
reply kid #1 – i didn’t spend much because i didn’t have a lot kid #2 – i didn’t / don’t spend much because i was / am saving a lot
we were paying $8/hr for one-on-one care, $690/month for infant daycare, and $590/month for preschool, all in a mostly rural area.
the entire topic of this discussion, babies and how much they cost, won’t be a concern for an educated and jobless generation — they just won’t be able to afford kids at all.
we do, however, have to spend about $700 on part-time day care, although we’re on the cheaper end of friends we have on that one.
but the big thing is spending <$200 would involve a lot of "no" – no little league, no scouting, no school play, no math tutor, no dance lessons, no field trips, etc.
i moved 45 minutes away to a more desirable part of my metro area and suddenly found myself paying more than $200 per month more per child.
you can negotiate anything how to get out of debt irs red flags that lead to audits best of get rich slowly  best of get rich slowly 2010 grs personal finance video contest winners all 2010 grs video contest entrants the psychology of happiness how to build confidence and destroy fear
check out diapers.com for some good diaper deals (not so much on other stuff).
if you want a productive, tax-paying youth to mature and contribute so that our entire society can be taken care of in the future, the focus for all of us is how to stop the bleeding.
(338) ask the readers: how much do you spend on clothes?
bigger cars are important in carpooling and that’s sort of a must with multiple kids.
and there are many licensed home daycare providers in my area.
reply i agree that the biggest cost of having children is time.
smaller cohorts mean more labor demand and higher salaries for people born during a baby bust.
daycare is another expense at $500 a month for each.
our approach to child rearing was somewhat, er, different than is the norm.
haha, i’ve been shocked at all the people that went straight into a mini-van, too.
we’ll be sure to check that out when it comes time to buy it.
it not only costs time and money but reduces your income because of time away from work.
after all, marriage is all about compromise (here i am about to be a parent, having been in the “no way, no how” camp until i met my wife – and it’s not under duress, it was a purposeful decision i made about the direction i wanted to take my life with her opinions on the subject in mind).
similar to children (i would imagine), they cost a lot to feed (but at least it’s a fairly consistent $-amount each month), their anticipated medical care (vaccinations) costs a lot, their emergency medical care when one gets sick (or breaks his tail) costs a small-fortune, and making sure their barn/habitat is kept up is also expensive.
we had a honda when the kids were little, replaced it with a malibu a few years back.
interestingly, the birth rate is in decline here with those who make more money, rather than less.
it’s just that so many people say “just do it” when it comes to kids without really communicating the difficulties of being a parent.
spend about $500-$600 on curriculum each year, about $200 on field trips.
my son and daughter had money from their grandparents.
after here, i don’t know but my father-in-law keeps telling me the costs go up.
you don’t need any of that crap.
how much do you spend on your children?
reply one of the reasons we chose a more rural area was that we wanted room for a home-based business as well as for kids to grow.
reply how extremely rude and judgemental.
if we’d have set up a payment plan or used a credit card, it’d be a lot more.
it’s not an imperative, but it’s something i’d enjoy, i think.
the good news is there are many ways to control these expenses.
the world has always had such doom and gloom.
i did not see if you would be a working parent or if one of you would stay home.
besides all the obvious costs, i know that my wife and i spend more on vehicles (and by extension gas) than we would without kids.
reply daycare costs when they were younger were about $800/month.
currently we’re paying $8000/year for private school plus $45/day for summer camp.
it’s not the 50s anymore, nor is it the 90s.
i expect this to roll right into tuition for school which will be less at private k-8 for us, but about the same for high school and more for college.
im assuming your car is baby appropriate and you dont have to move from a sports car to a real car.
babies have the initial costs of crib/stroller/clothing/etc, but many can be obtained secondhand for little or no money.
older kids eat more and wear out their clothes; far more significantly, they want to take gymnastics and music lessons and go to day camps during the summer.
now they cost more: private school tuition, new clothes because i can’t find nice stylish clothes used anymore.
even ordinary medical bills can add up, from recurring ear infections to a broken arm to dental visits and eyeglasses.
i wouldn’t be driving a gas guzzling minivan on my 30 minute each way commute if we didn’t have kids.
we’ll be doing the same for my middle son, and they’re spaced just far enough apart that we won’t likely have overlap in needs.
daycare is the killer… loading....
reply how can you drop a bombshell like that?
you are thinking of having kids… loading....
much of that is tuition, though.
we use all hand me downs or second hand stuff- not really a sacrifice since second hand baby stuff is pretty well new anyways.
baby supplies (diapers, wipes, equipment, toys, etc.): $75/month daycare: $1,175/month health insurance: $684 for a family plan kids activities (sports, music lessons, etc.): $100/month summer camp: $100/month (i only have one kid going to summer camp this year – yay!
acquiring the necessary equipment can be rather easily calculated.
there are fund raisers, retreats and service opportunities (yes we pay).
reply that ‘so far’ is really interesting!
ru, obviously only you and your parents are able to pass judgment on what is acceptable in your relationship with money and university… but you have to be willing to be honest with yourself as well.
once my husband and i moved to a family plan (when he married me) all children were part of the family.
- sports, club, etc fees are about $200-$400 year, depending.
these towns cost more to live in.
after 2 years of working in an office straight out of school, i was presented an amazing opportunity: a place at the best art school in europe.
in the 80s, people were still worried about the cold war and enviromental diasters.
carpooling – i didn’t even think about that.
while these are “optional”, your child wants to contribute to parties and if you don’t, that means another parent is in essence paying for your child by bringing in the necessary treats and craft items.
so now i shop online sales and end of season and have them shipped free.
she also benefits by being currently the only grandchild on both sides.
i’m honestly not responding to be a negative nelly… i’m very happy for every parent that finds joy in it.
we live within walking distance to his school, we don’t own a car, and we use the library a lot.
borrow clothes, cribs and toys.
and there are even car seats narrow enough to do 3 across — we have an older radian car seat and you could fit 3 across in even most small cars if you had too.
crowded but totally doable.
new babies need car seats, a place to sleep, a place to eat, and a place to put their clothing in terms of furiture.
you might not mind buying that first car seat, but (depending on where you live) you may be surprised that you still are buying booster seats many years later.
not every seat will fit in there and i contemplated replacing it with a four door, but it’s just not worth the extra cost.
can we get a survival post here?
so maybe you aren’t going “cower in a corner” but many people will.
reply our son is 12 now.
both small four door sedans.
it can be very little with breastfeeding, cloth diapers, and hand-me-downs, but daycare is a killer.
reply not wveryone is having a bad time with the economy.
just remember, the people that say you need these things are the same people that say you need a bumbo, and a jumperoo, and swing and exersaucer etc.
if you have to work, childcare can be expensive and it varies wildly too.
maybe how to feed yourself and the missus for a week on one squirrel and/or chipmunk?
when the kids wanted horses, they had to take care of the feeding, stall mucking, grooming, tack care and training of the horses themselves.
has this already been done?
but the private school option is optional (we’d still be paying for preschool if we weren’t doing it).
instead, how about having kids and teaching them to be contributing members of our society who try to make the world a better place?
we live comfortably on just under $90k per year, we have no non-mortgage debt, and we are able to save for retirement.
my wife is pregnant with our first right now and is due in october.
we started a baby fund when we found out we were expecting to cover baby expenses and to smooth out our cash flow for the first months.
you’ll get most as gifts and they don’t play with much anyway.
we can’t keep thinking the old ways still hold up in today’s environment.
you know how we’re having a bit of a jobs crisis right now?
my boe calculations said that starting at birth $500/month would be good if we didn’t expect any financial aid at a private school (and it is too much for many publics).
my husband and i always knew we wanted to start a family so we don’t complain about the money.
but we made her take it.
we have 529s set up for each child to save for college, but those are mostly funded by gifts from family at christmas and birthdays, and we haven’t been able to regularly contribute to them ourselves in awhile.
i’ll do what i can, but it won’t be as much as i’d like.
reply thank you both for the feedback.
we managed to avoid getting a bigger car, but if we had already had one kid in a car seat before the twins were born, we wouldn’t have been able to fit three car seats in our tiny honda civic, so a new car would have been part of the cost.
kids are as expensive as you make them.
medical expenses- this varies so much by child and by insurance that i think it’s difficult to estimate.
reply we have a big range (2, 11, 16 and one on the way)
as to babysitters, in my area the price ranges from $5/hour for a young teen to watch the kids while you go out someplace local for an hour or two to $15/hour for an adult if you are going to be gone long or go far.
how will you feed your baby.
the stroller and the bouncy seat you can find used easy.
we have a new cr-v that is earmarked to be the main family car — but my husband frequently needs it for work so planned baby will definitely ride in both cars.
basic tips on tipping how to get rid of ants without calling an exterminator most talked about  most talked about which online high-yield money market & high-interest savings account  is best?
again, getting a different carseat is less expensive than getting a different car!
you could end up with a baby/child that’s perfectly happy, healthy and wise, or you could end up with a baby/child who has special needs, requires more attention/money than another.
i live in a high-cost area and paid $250/week (and this was more than a decade ago, the cost in my area has probably grown 50-60% since then.)
if you work you won’t have time.
similarly, toys seem to magically appear in large numbers because everybody else has too many too.
they spend one week with us, one week with their dad, etc., so i have a fairly clear picture of the difference in grocery cost, at least.
get all the hand me downs and used stuff you can.
get out of debt as seen in: the wall street journal, money  magazine...
what i am talking about is the time away from any sort of income producing efforts and the time they take from your personal life.
3- i’m not going to be a starving artist, i’m going to be a ceramic designer.
reply i am going to concentrate on on-going costs.
when i go back to work he will probably be going into care for 5 half days a week and around here that runs us about $600 a month.
, you really don’t have to spend that much on stuff if you don’t want to.
i breastfed all the kids and never had to buy formula.
we pretty much only use an umbrella stroller, which have very little footprint on trunk space.
cloth diapers vary in price as well.
per ftc guidelines, this website may be compensated by companies  mentioned through advertising, affiliate programs or otherwise.
some want the latest and greatest things for their kids — all new — while others happily receive hand-me-downs and items on loan.
we live in a city with one of the higher costs of living.
it was close to half a million pounds.
last year we spent on average $2500/month on child-specific costs, the vast majority being childcare.
plus the extra seat on the plane.
(and your parents sound like really cool people).
baby equipment is so over marketed it’s crazy.
mine has plenty of toys and he still happier with an empty box, a stick or a patch of dirt.
month to month, we spend probably about $200 extra for her upkeep, but half of that is her 529 contribution.
it’s experiences that are hard to scrimp on, in our current culture where experiences tend to be organized and sold commercially… loading....
search for recent articles copyright © 1999-2012 by getrichslowly.org all rights reserved privacy policy terms of service disclaimer:all information provided on this site is for informational purposes only.
especially if your alternative is to go into debt to buy another car.
i’d save the judgment for after you know all the facts.
reply i’ve seen plenty of car seats in civics and corollas while out driving … my question is about a 2 door car.
i’ve noticed now that little buddy is three we spend about $200 a year on sports, museum trips etc for him.
once he started eating, we went with table food.
this article is about ask the readers, kids stay connectedstay
she’s only average height, so it’s not really a problem, but somebody taller wouldn’t fit there.
will you have to pay a thousand dollars for day care a month or not.
children are the ultimate std.
mine are adults but its easy to do the math on formula.
$300 for their bday parties another $1,000 for clothes and misc expenses.
if: you saved $1 million or more for retirement you bought a home without a mortgage you paid for college for three  or more children share your opinion: take a quick poll join our next getrichslowly tweetchat topic: money talks:
i am raising 3 grandkids (who would have otherwise gone to foster care) and between dcotors, dentists, eyeglasses, ortho, etc, etc my husband
disclaimer: all information provided at get rich slowly is for informational  purposes only.
how will you diaper your baby…figure out use and check out the adds for diapers.
if you buy them on sale and use coupons, i would say it costs about $25/month for diapers and wipes.
since she’s reading this blog, i’m guessing she’s probably much smarter about money than many people her age.
but it enhances the experience.
the wipes are $14 a box).
for us, it’s really important to value his education, make sure he has healthy food available, and that we have a lot of time together as a family.
i do feel immensely grateful to my mum and dad though.
reply nah, the civics will be good for several years and if this is your only child, you’ll probably never want to upgrade.
we’re hands-on parents, but we have also really worked to create the kind of life that we want as a family.
reply just to terrify anyone contemplating children, i would like to point out that my brother turns 25 this year and is still living at home.
ten years ago, it was terrorists and the changing world with crazy people killing as many as they could for an impact.
at the same time, a lot of those costs later on are going to depend on your parenting style and choices.
the costs do vary wildly.
(a year we spent in an expensive city, we paid $1200/month for preschool.)
if not, it would likely be popular, interesting, and controversial.
your kids will thank you for it when you forgo fancy baby frills and instead have the money for them to pursue their dreams later on.
days, evenings, weekends.
it’s not something you can take back to the store.
cloth diapers saved a lot of money and i nursed exclusively until i moved them to table food (i made baby food for a very short period).
we buy all of her clothing and baby items on clearance or second hand (other than car seats and cribs).
and teenage boys never stop eating.
they don’t need a fancy crib (they can sleep pretty much anywhere), they don’t need a lot of different toys and gizmos, they can eat breast milk and regular grownup food that’s been mashed up, they can wear hand-me-down clothes (because baby clothes only fit for a few weeks or months and then are ready to be passed on) and cloth diapers.
but you or your wife are not super tall, it can be done.
diapers.com didn’t exist with our first).
at least that's my experience.
however, now there are after school activities like dance and gymnastics.
for the record, i am childfree, but contemplating.
it’s an hour here, 1/2 day there, full day if they get sick.
will your health insurance rates increase, and do they cover maternity and well baby care.
working in the studio is 10 to 6 (or later) job, and it doesn’t leave much scope for part time work, especially when you have no bar or retail experience and the employers in london have a massive pool to draw from.
we all need to take care of each other or it just simply won’t function.
here’s her e-mail: we’re thinking about starting a family soon.
also “how can you support yourself, a family, and your parents on a starving artist’s income?”
we pay $15/day for a home daycare.
i hope that turns around soon.
oh wait, that’s $500 for the two kids, not per kid.
thanks for the laugh, wilson!
instead of paying for diapers and daycare, i’m paying for lots of food, clothes they outgrow so fast i can’t believe it, dance lessons, and lots of miscellaneous expenses (i need $10 for this school trip, etc.).
i do think a 4 door vehicle is better, though.
small children really need very, very little to be very, very happy.
the children have a ton of requests from their school for parties and special events, as well as fundraisers.
clothing: $100/month covers all 5 of us – we get a lot of the kids’ stuff used, but they do need new shoes every few months.
reply don’t forget to add on $100 – $500 to fund a baby’s 529 college fund (depending on what you can budget), but it should be something.
(thank you breastfeeding)
we live in a society.
now we put away for education.
and church shoes if your life includes that.
reply i have not read ahead.
the experience of, usually for the first time, putting someone else first, ahead of you, in your thoughts is a maturing experience even if you are in your 30s or 40s.
and we are always saving for college.
we have to provide transportation and school is 13 miles from home.
she would have allowed me to stay as long as i needed to, but it was my decision to leave.
if fewer people are having children, that means it’s better to have a child (all things equal).
i had my children when i was happily married and the economy was doing just fine.
but i think the biggest “cost” — and joy — has to do with time.
so, you’ve always wanted children, at least to some degree?
but for planning purposes i would just estimate whatever the full amount of your deductible is and cheer when it’s less!
their clothes and shoes cost more, they eat more, they like to participate in activities.
we eat out more now-sometimes because we have no time between school and gymnastics and sometimes because i don’t have the energy to cook both a wonderful at home meal and that cake for the cake walk in the same evening.
our friends and relatives were horrified that our small children were doing their own laundry and taking turns with the household chores and cooking.
do they mean when the kids are out of the (by then) paid for house?
just as you lament the future, we are excited for it.
i nursed for 13 months.
but we save money in other ways.
infants: diapers are an on-going cost, whether it be disposable, diaper service or even increased laundry costs.
reply clues from a longtime reader (i hope j.d. posts this comment!)
reply we spent very little on start-up costs: we were very lucky with hand-me-downs and gifts for large ticket items.
we re-use everything, kids share rooms, and we already bought the minivan after the first child!
that runs about $850 each.
0-3 we paid $8,500 for a babysitter to care for our son in her home.
reply name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
this year so far i’ve spent $190 on him and $50 of that was for baby-sitting.
in terms of actual cash, i’d estimate that my 11 y.o. runs around $300-$500/month all in (groceries, presents, clothes, chore pay, books, entertainment, sports fees…) but not counting travel or summer camp when we go that route.
-5 children, ages 8 to 12 (1 set of twins) - we homeschool, which i think is cheaper than the “free” public school.
mine just started public school, so no more daycare, but this means $300/month for afterschool care.
reply i agree with you there — the cost really varies!
cheap ways to stay warm how much should i tip?
and i’m not particularly confident in the footing yet.
yes, we kept our 100k miles 4-door alero until #3 came along and we couldn’t figure out away to get all 3 carseats in the back.
it’s easier when you make a large salary and have a big emergency fund set up.
my daughter is at home while her husband works.
everybody has extra baby clothing.
soaring student loan debt and few jobs, even for previously considered safe professions like law, are what’s going to hurt us most.
reply i don’t feel guilty, because i haven’t forced them to do anything, they can afford it and, most importantly- they planned for it.
the value of seeing the world through the eyes of someone who is seeing things for the first time..ever.
reply we have three children ages 8, 5, and 2.
she costs less than $500/month.
so i’d say we spend about $150 per year.
i don’t know if you know this, but design university is not like other universities.
my niece’s father has a 2 door sports car-ish thing that he bought when he had no plans for kids and wanted something cool.
reply $1250/month for daycare, ~75/month medical on average, and ~50/month on food for our 1-year old.
that’s the stuff that really costs.
activities- this varies.
(795) a place of my own (572) contact (546) the lazy way to investment success (489) ask the readers: how much do you spend on housing?
this comment was intended for robert zaleski (#51) above.
we pay about 700$/month in daycare costs and under 100$/month in other items (toys, diapers, etc.).
we were lucky enough to have very few “start-up” costs — we were gifted our crib, carseat, many clothes, toys, etc.
for me its one of those “first date questions” to get the issue out of the way so that there are no unrealistic long-term expectations.
i’m extremely grateful to have parents who were both able and willing to support me on my journey: like ru, i can never pay them back for the financial investment in me (or indeed the emotional support) but thanks to their support, i’m now in a career which will realistically allow me the kind of earnings that will enable me to support them in their old age.
(also have no desire for more formal education myself.)
that’s a good way to “stop thinking about yourself.”
she’s the best kid in the world–but i still wouldn’t have another.
and you don’t know that one or both won’t get some kind of scholarship.
her parents are choosing to distribute their money that way.
for us, personally, the main “cost” was a smaller household income, as the time you spend with your kid(s) is time you aren’t working.
am i living in a penthouse in chelsea scoffing down caviar and champagne?
then they need tuition and transportation and allowance etc.
the £250 rent he pays to my parents gets redistributed to his little sister (me, aged 22) to make sure she doesn’t starve in the big city while she earns her degree, so my long suffering ma and pa are in the hole from putting him up.
and i find that interesting.
clothing runs us about $50 per season plus shoes
from 2-3 we have still had to use 1 diaper at night which costs about $0.21.
and my interviews of home daycare providers versus the larger facilities showed me that home daycare providers provide the more personalized care (better in my book) that i was looking for, and don’t nickel and dime you for everything.
like kris, i’ve never wanted children and knew it at a very early age.
it costs $12,000 per year.
diapers- from 0-2 ran about $1-$2 per day.
- we budget $600 per month for groceries (including toiletries), $200 per month for take-out/restaurants - clothing has been very minimal (esp since they don’t go to school), but shoe costs are rising as they get older.
i’m sure that’s true, but still, wouldn’t a plain old civic be enough to accommodate 2 adults and 1 kid?
“i didn’t detect even a twinge of guilt in what you’re doing to your parents.”
we love to travel, and he’s already lived in two countries and visited many others.
reply kevin, you might want to simmer down with the judgment.
but if the village has your back, raising a child is so much easier!
but i think to recommend <$200 as a budgeting figure is unrealistic and will be necessarily thrusting a parentally imposed "difference" upon a child.
just because you’re physically capable of having a child and other people are doing it, that doesn’t mean it’s the right choice for you.
i have no idea but ru is doing, but given that she’s 22 and earning her degree, i’d guess that she’s in training for some kind of professional career – many professions involve studying and limited earning potential until well into your 20s.
reply i budget $1,300.00 a year per child.
we still give her $250 a month though since she’s saving us a ton of money and peace of mind.
and they told me to take the opportunity and do something for myself instead of someone else.
no day care cost because i stayed home.
babies can be very cheap.
domestic ones more like $300-500.
we’ve saved up a little over $1000 for his education costs since he’s been born which has been funded entirely by the government money and some money gifted to him when he was born.
so our budget currently touches on pretty much all of the needs kids have in their little life-at-home spans
lube up the shotgun and run for the hills!
our little boy is turning 1 in a couple weeks, and i’m in the middle of writing a series of posts about the first year costs.
if that’s not the case, i’m surprised you made it as long as you did.
the easily quantifiable costs are relatively easy, but highly variable situation to situation.
reply i think $500 (even for both kids) is too high.
she’s at the beginning of her financial journey, and kudos to her for thinking about something that many people’s don’t worry about until their parents are in dire straights.
i shopped deals and used coupons.
you really only need a crib, a bouncy seat, one or two good carseats and a stroller.
stop thinking of yourself for a minute and think of your future child.
will it need to all be new?
no free rides for anybody.
that’s what you should be concerned about.
most people have a larger house than they would without kids.
reply same area in delaware a little over 6k insurance has a max of 1k payout.
besides the childcare this included 529 savings, toys, (mostly 2nd hand) clothing, diapers, (limited) recreational activities, and school lunch.
i had a barely used infant car seat from my sister along with all necessary clothes, i wore my babies in a sling and never really used a stroller or a crib or other expensive baby gear (much of which can be borrowed quite easily).
for instance, our daycare costs are lower than most because my mother-in-law watches our kids.
your $10k emergency fund is going to feel like a handful of pennies if you lose your job and you’ve got a child to support.
which is why when i was single, i got an answer to the kids / no kids question on the first date.
i think there’s a ted talk on how someone’s kid said it was the best day ever just going to the park and getting pizza with dad.
my girls can’t pass down shoes as much because their feet are turning out very different. : ) - biggest “extra” cost for our family are road trips – which we value and plan for.
the first few months were higher since we had to grab some items we didn’t receive on the baby registry.
you just admitted that you’re 22, and still living off an “allowance” of £250/month.
they should pay for some of the expenses too by working while in school.
that’s the toughest time.
our experience is- daycare, daycare, daycare!!!!
we definitely have the resources to support them.
this doesn’t include occasional nights out, or lost wages when a kid is sick and someone has to stay home, or summer camp for the week the preschool is closed between the school year and the summer session.
i can’t fathom spending as much as some of you spend per month on a child.
my youngest was practically free.
reply wait until the old-age vet bills start rolling in.
remember that your retirement always comes first then your kids college.
much of this you can figure out yourself, in terms of early life.
if i were in your shoes, i’d feel obligated to do everything in my power to 1) get off their teat, and 2) pay them back.
the perfect is the enemy of the good how to beat the procrastination habit a simple way to get more out of life luck is no accident 9 methods for mastering your money
on the plus side: they cut the lawn!
we get invited to a lot of children’s parties, which average to $20 month.
reply unlicensed at-home daycare can be a recipe for disaster unless you’re very very careful.
reply i live in brooklyn, ny.
tips on talking about money with your  family when: wednesday, december 7th at 4:00pm est get an email reminder ... essential money skills  essential money skills an introduction to money market accounts the best online high-yield savings accounts highest cd rates at online banks how to start a roth ira (and where to do it) how to choose a credit card 25 of the best books about money make the most of your checking account how to stop buying clothes you never wear how to eat healthy while keeping it cheap earn extra cash in your spare time should you rent or buy?
that said, our daycare costs as much as our condo payment: $1000/month.
our daycare costs almost $1700/mo per child for 8am to 6pm care.
and i miss work at least 1-2 times a week.
he costs nearly $1,000/mo.
however, drastically altering it at this point would be unpleasant for us and them.
are kids more expensive as newborns or as teenagers?
many times we just puree a bit of what we’re eating for her.
hiring a housekeeper: how i made my peace
don’t let yourself get so worked up so early in the morning.
for the last 2.5 years he’s eaten whatever we eat.
you just need to know when it’s more than a sniffle
(as school budgets shrink, these craft/party days are transferred to the parent.)
going to a family event in chicago is twice as expensive as it used to be now that we have two kids who need their own seats.
life isn’t too bad if you’re a member of the 5%.
people made fun of hilary clinton for saying “it takes a village to raise a child.”
reply is your cost for braces post dental insurance?
and kids don’t start school until kindergarten (pre-k is not guarenteed), so you’re looking at 5 years of childcare per child.
maybe they wear glasses or get a lot of cavities.
he kept the 2 door and it was just fine.
we’ll up the amount as we go, but we’re in it 50/50 with him.
here’s que sera pondering prices of disposable vs. cloth for someone who is considering a diaper service.
don’t make hopeful parents sound so selfish for wanting to have a family.
reply we’ll check back w/you in 5-10 years, lol!
even diapers weren’t much because i probably didn’t change him as often as i changed the first couple of kids.
i’d estimate that baby stuff is about $50/month.
and it doesn’t end there.
reply agreed, you don’t need a bigger car.
so, the odds of me having children have gone from 0% to something more than that.
especially if it’s not every day, all the time.
i’m 6’4″ and drive an ’08 civic coupe that’s paid off.
daycare is also terrible.
reply a child won’t have any opportunities in our society if he or she does not exist.
i’m sure we’ll be ready to swap out the ’01
and they always need 2 pairs at a time – play shoes and school shoes.
$250 a month is a drop in the ocean compared to the amount she might spend studying at a good school in a city area.
given the very high cost of adoption and the ongoing costs of kids that many have discussed in the comments (which would seem to apply regardless of biological/adopted/foster origins), how do you see your choice to not have *biological* kids as a cost-savings?
by the time that comes along anyway.
loading.... i’m not trying to speak to j.d.’s situation, but generally speaking i don’t see that difference as that significant.
if you have kids, you need to love them enough to spend time with them.
bottom line, i think it’s a crapshoot.
they want more things, they eat more, they need more clothes, more activities, take up more space etc.
also, if you are on a budget, it helps to teach kids about money management as early as possible so they can help make the choices with you, so they don’t ever feel denied — but that’s a whole different subject.
do the costs go up or down as the child grows?
life is not all playing in the park and in the backyard, particularly with school aged children.
i dunno… most kids just *want* a pony.
i would say we now spend about $60 a month on diapers, and let’s say $50 on other variable costs.
it’s a good question.
to me this is an ongoing expense.
and my mum has told me specifically that she would like to live with me in old age so i can keep an eye on her.
reply to me, the “…so far” is pretty uninteresting.
and i am sure now that i’ve expressed this, i will be told how unfit i am to parent.
that, along with the carpentry and concrete projects should keep them pretty busy.
you’ll really have to shop for car seats that fit.
it just sounds absolutely absurd.
daughter was doing demolition work when she was old enough to hold a tiny little sledgehammer.
all the research i’ve done shows them performing very poorly, so i just don’t trust that it’s a good place to pour money at the moment… loading....
i agree with em: it’s not easy, but it’s doable in most circumstances.
hotels are not accomodating to large families; with any lodging (camping, etc) we have to get creative.
and unload groceries!
reply i have a 16 month old that i budget $100 a month for as far as diapers, clothing, and incidentals.
the value of guiding another human that is part you is a priceless journey that ends only when you do.
it’s not only the cost of children, it’s the reduction in income that needs to be considered.
we barely noticed him, budget wise.
my little hyundai accent is doing just fine accommodating one kid.
it’s about $1200 for the whole summer and we save for it all year, of course)
heck, i might live close enough to bike to work if we didn’t have kids and wanted to live really close to my in-laws for the babysitting help!
of course the costs will increase as she starts to be able to “do” more — but we will embrace those costs.
we only have one toddler (while we’re trying to have another), so i can’t speak to school aged kids yet or multiple.
i don’t mind having excess money in the first 529, since transferring to kid #2 should be easy, but i’m not sure that i want to either take a penalty or finance a distant relative’s education with excess.
i waver between no to a very sheepish “i don’t know” – which probably means no in the long run.
if your fully funding all your retirement and doing the $500 per month in the 529 then by all means go for it.
my daughter takes dance lessons, but we send her to the cheaper city run dance school–about half the cost of the other dance schools in town.
“real” summer day camps can cost $700+ per week.
the value of getting to re-live your childhood or re-write it
my pregnancy was expensive, but since he’s only had two sick appointments.
fewer children means fewer tax payers to support an aging population.
my bil lived in a low-wage area and paid $250/month.
all told, my family probably spent $100,000 per child on daycare before they started school.
we’d like to make a two door car work vs. buying another car within the next year or so.
we got a graco for the infant seat (highest rated in consumer reports) and a britax for the toddler+ seat (again, highest rated).
factor in some sort of grocery cost because making everything from scratch will be difficult everyday.
i have friends who kept their mini — true, the smaller the car, the more of a challenge it is to find a car seat that will fit while it faces backwards, but it’s still totally doable.
i think we’re entering a strange new era