as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be  controlled.
she begins  to wear the gender straight-jacket that squeezes out her breath and she learns  that she’ll be rewarded more for her looks, passivity, and  soft-spokenness than for her passions, insights, and beliefs.
read more... a good laugh helps break the tension.
it can cause an  exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in  turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
if so, consider strengthening 'i love  you' with the following suggestions.
you want to love and cherish her again.
things you definitely don’t want to  expose your children to.
related articles many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with their children.
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but the rewards are great.
fortunately, most blended families are able  to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
do you recognise yourself in any of that?
in recent years, research has well documented the silencing of girls’ voices in our culture during the pivotal adolescent years.
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the effects ofdivorce on children.
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to  soothe your screaming newborn!!!
our culture is extraordinarily uncomfortable with girls who know what they want  and expect to get it.
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than what anyone else tells her!read more...
whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
will i ever sleep again?
children love their parents and want  to be with them.
infection, injury, congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use  violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
will you be a good dad?
read more... help your child cope with divorce many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
about 200 million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
things you definitely don’t want to expose your children to.
as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be  involved in your child's life.
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply  involves creating a new branch.
when an affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
she begins to wear the gender straight-jacket that squeezes out her breath and she learns that she’ll be rewarded more for her looks, passivity, and soft-spokenness than for her passions, insights, and beliefs.
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed  in this article.
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts  and heal wounds.
read more... dads hold up half the sky fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters  a lot for kids!
open communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
raising your daughter every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his  daughter’s life!
here's how it's done:read more... not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do pass through the same stages.
in it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on when you don’t know what to do next.
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your  marriage.
that's one of the reasons  we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
yet, no parental action has a greater impact on children.
situations of family and relationship violence impact couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
read more... sometimes the poorest man leaves his children the richest inheritance.
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death  or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro  long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and  life changing task.
a small percentage of men have a blockage in  their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate  fluid.
sex and the new dad how long until we ...?
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope with the divorce of their parents.
at least one-third of all children will be part of a stepfamily before they reach age 18.
dad's at a distance - working away relationships with children are much like plants, they need  constant nourishing!
below is a list of some behaviors that children should be protected from.
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do it
understanding something about those stages can help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually just a part of growing up.
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility  to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children  from adult conflicts.
in fact, it may be a major barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
there are strong physical and emotional  impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
the professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
when she speaks bold and clearly—literally and  metaphorically—then she is much safer and surer.
so here are a few tips to help you make it  through those (short) nights.
whether or not your children say it or show it, you  can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around  it.
after another process called capacitation (an explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization and conception.
do you want those words to have real meaning to  your child?
about  half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including  chromosomal problems.
below is a list of some behaviors that  children should be protected from.
our culture is extraordinarily uncomfortable with girls who know what they want and expect to get it.
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the  liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means  much more than the textbook definition.
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily  through the activities and time spent with your children.
when she speaks bold and clearly—literally and metaphorically—then she is much safer and surer.
do you use domestic violence?
read more... children's ways of love individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is  also very individual.
they can guide you where to go.
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with someone besides your partner?
sit and read a book for 10 minutes.
after all, we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
men are even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses, partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
of course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
of  course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new coping skills and improve how your family works together.
do you want them to connect one heart to another?
that belief is of little  use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
there are many times i just don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get from my girls.
as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be involved in your child's life.
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other  would be useless.
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!read more...
registering baby's birth
in the  twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard  many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of  the date of birth.
play is "the work of children".
read more... marriage counseling
so why should they accept it from any other man?
then discuss it with your child or children.
could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
read more... manage your portion sizes and take the following tips into consideration.
lack of  sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers  and mothers...
the list of potential adjustments is long, and it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
read more... relationships with children are much like plants, they need constant nourishing!
if we want to unravel this mystery, we have to pay attention and listen, even in the most ordinary moments.
illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
but during those bleary early weeks, when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out where to start.
many dads i meet share this mistaken idea:read more...
read more... many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
after another process called capacitation (an  explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough  outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization  and conception.
read more... kids love talking!
she studied a group of 131 children and  their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25  years.
nancy gruver, creator of new moon girls magazine, explains the change this  way: “a girl silences herself because she encounters a culture that still  encourages her, in ways both subtle and blatant, to put her own needs second.
before the baby is born, you may find that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
and yet dads often  feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge  getting there.
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as  all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
william klatte has written an insightful book calledlive-away dads.
read more... five commandments for today's family man two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the  proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
be it gardening together, singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help them to develop into happy healthy children.
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
read more... is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a new single dad with children at home?
dads must help nurture these qualities.
when an  affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed  — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
instead of backing  the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
i have watched this  closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been  separated and preparing for divorce.
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other would be useless.
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!read more...
lack of sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers and mothers...
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your children.
that’s a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
what dads-to-be dream about could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
when we respect what our daughters’ voices say, we build up their inner strength—the best foundation for future safety and success.
like any mystery,  the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining,  baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at  once...
the adjustments for dad, mum and kids are major.
in some measures, father-love is more important.
yet, no parental  action has a greater impact on children.
but they are not silly, unnecessary,  or insignificant to fathers.
but if you ask most dads, you'll find  that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own  special ways to soothe their babies.
if there is, i can't imagine it.
creative stories are a chance to build a great and loving memory.
over the years  my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has  developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different  families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and  beliefs.
what is the role of  the father who is present at the birth of his child?
as a  dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may  open a floodgate of dreams.
the  professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence  suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is  as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.”
it takes  special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for the sake of the kids.
if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in denial or not paying attention!
they can guide you  where to go.
after all,  we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in  the process.
if work takes you away from your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
read more... how to share in your partner's pregnancy face your fear.
can men get  something like the baby blues as well as women?
we must understand  these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work  effectively with fathers and families.
whether or not your children say it or show it, you can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around it.
fortunately, most blended families are able to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
because a girl’s voice may be the most valuable and most  threatened resource she has.
managing your anger ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first,  that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever  realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!
ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
non-violent relationships: a role for fathers good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they  lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their  children.
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile environment of the vagina.
i had phoned my  wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
read more... 10 dad-tested ways to soothe a crying baby waaaaah!!!
but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose  it...'
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only  the father smoked read more...
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear, you're only normal.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial  elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
read more... activities with infants as your child grows older she will want different things from her  engagement with you.
fortunately, fathers and stepfathers are in a powerful position to counter  these negative cultural messages by encouraging our daughters to speak up and  rewarding them when they do.
it labels girls’ complaints as whining and their  pursuit of their desires as bitchiness and being self-centered.”
understand how a marriage can be rebuilt after an affair.
men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
read more... when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
read more... as your child grows older she will want different things from her engagement with you.
it can cause an exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
the  registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point  for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
to  help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william  wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
discipline is all about modifying  behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of  the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile  environment of the vagina.
in the twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
are you worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?read more... one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate discipline for their children.
the sassy, tree-climbing 10-year-old who  expects justice from the world for everyone, including herself, often turns  into a soft-spoken, passive 13-year-old who may still demand justice from the  world—but, strangely, not for herself.
fathers play a critical role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from abuse and neglect.
the list of potential adjustments is long, and  it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best  to help dads bond with their babies.
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no heart-to-hearts.
girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
the birth - tips for dads if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in  denial or not paying attention!
your family can be your greatest source of  support, comfort and love.
she's not made of porcelain!
girls are typically loud, opinionated, and physically confident until age 12 or so; then many girls begin silencing their own voices.
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation:read more...
this page contains  resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
we must understand these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work effectively with fathers and families.
there are strong physical and emotional impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
read more we have an explicit commitment to gender equity and the un convention on the rights of the child (crc).
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship  with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
however, when you are  away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open  but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often  from their dad.
there are times when too  much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too
like any mystery, the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining, baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at once...
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first, that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
related  articles fathers and their daughters - what will change for david beckham when he  becomes father to a daughter (mirror.co.uk) my father's daughter (writingjen.com) dads and teen daughters on father's day (psychologytoday.com) father's day: dads and their teen daughters (psychologytoday.com) friend, father or both?
will your baby be born with ten  fingers and ten toes?
children love their parents and want to be with them.
or maybe you've been dreaming about your grandparents?
i have been violent or abusive and i need help 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner she is scared of  me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen  again -
a father is the first man his daughter knows.
fathers play a critical  role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from  abuse and neglect.
dealing with miscarriage miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a  daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
these days, for urban dads it's  more unusual if he isn't there.
will your baby be born with ten fingers and ten toes?
there are many times i just  don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in  the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working  away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get  from my girls.
whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are similar...
they let their  daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the  norm.
read more... two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
adapted from  dads & daughters: how to inspire, understand, and  support your daughter by joe kelly and used by permission.
next time you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their granparents.
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation: read more... myths surrounding children and divorce
read more... is playing with dolls manly?
you want to love and cherish her  again.
read more... is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married to the mother of his child?
making the most of visits with the kids many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an  often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with  their children.
you haven't had a real conversation for weeks.
they let their daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the norm.
stepfathering stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a  situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
and even through attempts at reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
dads must help nurture  these qualities.
read more... dads and breastfeeding breast is best!!!
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
find ways to keep anger under  control as you work with your children.
read more... men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often from their dad.
i  really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day  left me feeling empty.
a girl also gets strong messages that silencing herself is the only way to  maintain her relationships with girlfriends, boyfriends, family, and others  important to her.
quick discipline strategies a good laugh helps break the tension.
once the initial settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
whether it's you,  your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family  therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
these hurdles may seem silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
the effects of divorce on children and how to cope
this page contains resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose it...' do you recognise yourself in any of that?
should you stay together for the sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your kids?
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or  excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
children in blended families may at first  resist the many changes they face.
blended families stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm  now than ever.
common fertility problems for men blockages.
if we want to unravel this mystery, we have to pay attention and listen,  even in the most ordinary moments.
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the  effects ofdivorce on children.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed in this article.
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your  shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
~ euripides info raising daughters listen to her - and then listen some more listen to her - and then listen some more tweet girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
if you are like almost every other new father you are not alone!
you haven't had a real conversation  for weeks.
read more... children's expectations of you and your ex marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter  is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
or maybe you've been dreaming about your  grandparents?
here's how it's done: read more... how your child's behaviour changes as they grow not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do  pass through the same stages.
there have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on children.
whether it's you, your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
infection, injury,  congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
girls are typically  loud, opinionated, and physically confident until age 12 or so; then many girls  begin silencing their own voices.
are you concerned that your behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be thinking, feeling and needing from you.
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in  harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
these hurdles may seem silly,  unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
counselling is a major  factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv  testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
people (sometimes within her family) begin seeing her as a sexual object rather than as a person.
then discuss it  with your child or children.
read more... tell your kids you love them!
you can also find other dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you believe society expects of a male parent.
family therapy can help families  identify and resolve problems.
pending fatherhood can make you think about your family's roots.
stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new  coping skills and improve how your family works together.
should you stay together for the  sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your  kids?
and most  of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
do you want to  use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your  heartfelt affection for your children?
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
a small percentage of men have a blockage in their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate fluid.
her voice is the conduit for her heart, brains,  and spirit.
read more... can men get the baby blues?
when we respect what our daughters’ voices  say, we build up their inner strength—the best foundation for future  safety and success.
children in blended families may at first resist the many changes they face.
it seems some parents  can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for  their children.
for many couples, being together is what feels  right.
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study, published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
about 200  million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
with time, you and your baby will develop your own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
there is growing evidence  that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that  positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
before the baby is born, you may find  that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that  they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
you'd be odd if you weren't afraid.
i had phoned my wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
parental smoking is a significant issue.
in a study of smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking mother).
i'm in control so you are safe.
do you want those words to have real meaning to your child?
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to  the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that  dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children  and themselves.
in fact, it may be a major  barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no  heart-to-hearts.
the various sections on this page  should give you some basic reassurance!
the various sections on this page should give you some basic reassurance!read more...
playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children and themselves.
these days, for urban dads it's more unusual if he isn't there.
marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
discipline is all about modifying behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
what's that?read more...
over the years my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and beliefs.
it seems some parents can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for their children.
is he a labor coach,  advocate or partner?
read more... be there for her!
as  we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
read more... 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner she is scared of me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen again -
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best to help dads bond with their babies.
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and  especially fathers.
read more... do you have to be at your baby's birth?
many dads i meet  share this mistaken idea: read more... five worries about fathering our daughters
understanding something about those stages can  help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually  just a part of growing up.
read more... why tell stories?
read more... healing family conflicts families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems  that create conflict and stress.
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing,  cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
read more... dads play with kids can make a big difference
when a girl runs into the notion (sometimes reinforced by dad) that loud behavior is not ladylike, she learns that it’s unattractive to recognize her own needs and advocate openly for them.
your family can be your greatest source of support, comfort and love.
it is generally accepted that children learn both good and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
but during those bleary early weeks,  when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out  where to start.
in most men, 15 to 45 million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only 400 survive after a man ejaculates.
in recent years, research has well documented the silencing of girls’
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may threaten to tear your family apart.
it's my child - and i'm proud to be his dad!!!
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of the date of birth.
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child development as motherhood!
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and life changing task.
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they  can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
what is the role of the father who is present at the birth of his child?
if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study,  published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t  “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a  life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
she learns the myth that loudness and friction threaten the  survival of relationships—and that a relationship will not continue if  she demands that it meet her needs.
read more... how to be more involved with your baby
once the initial  settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you  believe society expects of a male parent.
tips on stress set aside time for yourself.
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children from adult conflicts.
but they are not silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to fathers.
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
but not everyone feels the same.
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your marriage.
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word go:read more...
read more... stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm now than ever.
infidelity: mending your marriage after an affair infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief,  fear, guilt, shame.
remember that as difficult as it may  be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of  their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children  who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for  the sake of the kids.
the sassy, tree-climbing 10-year-old who expects justice from the world for everyone, including herself, often turns into a soft-spoken, passive 13-year-old who may still demand justice from the world—but, strangely, not for herself.
remember that as difficult as it may be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
is he a labor coach, advocate or partner?
read on for some advice and reassurance that  there is a sex life after baby!
in most men, 15 to 45  million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only  400 survive after a man ejaculates.
the screaming and crying  will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved  rest.
good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their children.
yes, fathers are vulnerable to similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.
set aside time for yourself.
and, when you consider the benefits, why not?
the registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
but it is certainly much harder, and  it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children  that he needs to.
are you  worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?
and even through attempts at  reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
(life.nationalpost.com)
read more... ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
it labels girls’ complaints as whining and their pursuit of their desires as bitchiness and being self-centered.”
married fathers is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married  to the mother of his child?
as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
this could mean that you're worried that pregnancy will damage your sex life.
real dads play dolls is playing with dolls manly?
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and especially fathers.
at least one-third of all children will be part of a  stepfamily before they reach age 18.
dealing with anger - your own and your child's divorce can bring out the worst in people.
that’s exceedingly rare.
~mark twain father! - to god himself we cannot give a holier name.
read  more... bonding with the new baby when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a  challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set  the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than  what anyone else tells her!
because a girl’s voice may be the most valuable and most threatened resource she has.
nancy gruver, creator of new moon girls magazine, explains the change this way: “a girl silences herself because she encounters a culture that still encourages her, in ways both subtle and blatant, to put her own needs second.
and most of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
situations of family and relationship violence impact  couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
we support the importance of mothering and mothers’ rights to children, and we highlight the importance of parents working co-operatively for the interests of children.
two decades ago it was unusual for a  father to be there when his child was born.
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a poster.
"noble fathers have  noble children."
but, it may be a while.
family therapy can help your family weather such storms.
read more... which is better for your kids?
family therapy can help your family weather  such storms.
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy  development of their children and that positive father involvement has a  beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
single, separated and divorced fathers
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and grief.
a girl also gets strong messages that silencing herself is the only way to maintain her relationships with girlfriends, boyfriends, family, and others important to her.
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with  someone besides your partner?
voices in our culture during the pivotal adolescent years.
fathers and smoking parental smoking is a significant issue.
creative stories are a chance to build  a great and loving memory.
read more... 5 myths of fatherhood
in  it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on  when you don’t know what to do next.
that's one of the reasons we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope  with the divorce of their parents.
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and  grief.
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may  threaten to tear your family apart.
when a girl runs into the notion (sometimes reinforced by dad) that loud  behavior is not ladylike, she learns that it’s unattractive to recognize  her own needs and advocate openly for them.
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use  abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do  it
this could mean that you're worried that  pregnancy will damage your sex life.
every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his daughter’s life!
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be  thinking, feeling and needing from you.
adapted from dads & daughters: how to inspire, understand, and support your daughter by joe kelly and used by permission.
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
storytelling made easy why tell stories?
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
for many couples, being together is what feels right.
that belief is of little use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
she studied a group of 131 children and their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25 years.
to help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
and yet dads often feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge getting there.
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was  astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
next time  you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their  granparents.
facts about men's fertility men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
read more... individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is also very individual.
read more... infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief, fear, guilt, shame.
e. renkel it is much easier to become a father than to be one. ~kent
men are  even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses,  partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
read more... daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are  similar...
read more... how to adjust to life as a single father is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a  new single dad with children at home?
family therapy can help families identify and resolve problems.
instead of backing the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
our best solution for this natural by-product of humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
wordsworthread more... it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
are you concerned that your  behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
with time, you and your baby will develop your  own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but  the rewards are great.
there  have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on  children.
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way  to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word  go: read more... listen to her - and then listen some more girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
for example, one daughter may receive love best  when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a  set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her  something.
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly  stand to have the old man around.
can men get something like the baby blues as well as women?
divorce can bring out the worst in people.
about half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including chromosomal problems.
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to soothe your screaming newborn!!!
the screaming and crying will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved rest.
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self  control--we can't lose ours in the process.
that’s  exceedingly rare.
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly stand to have the old man around.
it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than  to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child  development as motherhood!
there are times when too much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too hard.
for example, one daughter may receive love best when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her something.
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your  children.
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the  new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
will you love your baby?
do you want to use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your heartfelt affection for your children?
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear,  you're only normal.
you can also find other  dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest  wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say,  "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?" read more... divorce: your child's perspective children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during  and after divorce.
i really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day left me feeling empty.
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply involves creating a new branch.
people (sometimes within her  family) begin seeing her as a sexual object rather than as a person.
read more... disciplining for dads one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate  discipline for their children.
dads love to have fun with  their kids, at least the great ones do.
if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying  around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting  — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
dads don't get a lot of credit for being soothing, nurturing types.
so the short answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of the expectant mother.
dads love to have fun with their kids, at least the great ones do.
however, when you are away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
if work takes you away from  your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and  her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
our best solution for this natural by-product of  humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your  friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
read more by now you should have noticed changes in your fitness and strength as well as in your body.
but if you ask most dads, you'll find that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own special ways to soothe their babies.
ever felt that your anger was getting  the best of you?
if there is, i can't  imagine it.
will labour go smoothly?
she learns the myth that loudness and friction threaten the survival of relationships—and that a relationship will not continue if she demands that it meet her needs.
be it gardening together,  singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the  ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help  them to develop into happy healthy children.
that’s  a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
read more... how long until we ...?
read more... prevention of hiv transmission to infants many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child  treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
we can work this out.
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say, "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?"read more... children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during and after divorce.
if so, consider strengthening 'i love you' with the following suggestions.
as a dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may open a floodgate of dreams.
dads don't get a lot of credit for  being soothing, nurturing types.
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts and heal wounds.
so here are a few tips to help you make it through those (short) nights.
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting in an early miscarriage.
wordsworth read more...
fortunately, fathers and stepfathers are in a powerful position to counter these negative cultural messages by encouraging our daughters to speak up and rewarding them when they do.
read more... fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters a lot for kids!
and they love grandparents.
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing, cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
two decades ago it was unusual for a father to be there when his child was born.
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only the father smokedread more...
so the short  answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of  the expectant mother.
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of  domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
dig where you stand - kids family history activity kids love talking!
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a  poster.
i have watched this closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been separated and preparing for divorce.
activities for dads and kids playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
her voice is the conduit for her heart, brains, and spirit.
all children deserve a chance to grow up unafraid.
counselling is a major factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
in a study of  smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months  old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking  mother).
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily through the activities and time spent with your children.
you'd  be odd if you weren't afraid.
so, given  the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions  for tackling this important task successfully.
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting  in an early miscarriage.
staying together for the sake of the kids which is better for your kids?
it is generally accepted that children learn both good  and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
read on for some advice and reassurance that there is a sex life after baby!read more... waaaaah!!!
open  communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and  patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
but it is certainly much harder, and it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children that he needs to.
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means much more than the textbook definition.
it's you she wants in the delivery room be there for her!
try to agree with your ex the following.
it takes special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
read more... face your fear.
yes, fathers are vulnerable to  similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can  become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.
read more... families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems that create conflict and stress.