arabic cantonese danish  dutch american english british english finnish french german greek hebrew  icelandic irish italian japanese mandarin norwegian polish portuguese russian  spanish swedish turkish welsh more information for talk  now... 11.
le petit prince in 30+ languages antoine de saint-exupéry note: these books are special orders, so they will take longer to ship than other products.
world literature in spanish on tape
five titles are available: harry potter and the  sorcerer's stone, harry potter and the chamber of secrets, harry potter and the  prisoner of azkaban, harry potter and the goblet of fire, and harry potter and  the order of the phoenix.
equally loved  by children and adults alike,the little prince is one of the most  translated books on the planet - which is fortunate, as we are able to offer  here editions in many languages for your (or your child's) enjoyment!
save $20 off the one-level price, $30 off the two-level price or$70 off the eight-level price with promo code pl-2003.
this highly acclaimed program is simple and effective and makes use of both sides of the brain.
it teaches the first 200 words  using sounds, pictures, and games.
the author, dr. kathie  dior, has created a novel that captures the imagination of the reader with  side-by-side english-spanish text, and a cd audiobook that provides correct  pronunciation.
platiquemos has been highly rated by heartland reviews, and the about.com spanish guide.
the twisted doors is the ideal holiday gift for 8-18 year-olds.
platiquemos: the worlds best spanish program
$49.95 french (les portes tordues) - book and cd spanish (las puertas retorcidas) - book and cd more information for twisted doors... 7.
it is designed to teach students of all abilities to converse in spanish quickly.
italian  french german irish gaelic spanish dvd edition $249 italian french german spanish muzzy  introduction to japanese more  information for muzzy... 4.
enjoy the little prince in the language of your choice, and check regularly, as we will be adding new versions as they become available.
the program will help to create and strengthen pathways in the brain that will  help the child throughout its life.
designed for diplomats and others who really need to learn a language, the  foreign service courses are some of the best programs available.
this intriguing mystery motivates readers using the same learning format used at purdue university's gifted education resource institute.
enjoy the little prince in the language of your choice, and check  regularly, as we will be adding new versions as they become available.
written in 1943 by antoine de saint-exupéry, who disappeared shortly after in wwii during a flying mission for the allies in northern africa, it became an instant cult classic and has remained so ever since.
each level includes a book and cds or  audio cassette tapes.
each level has 12  units with over 100 hours of study material.
all of these courses come with a book and audio cassettes or cds (multilingual books has digitally re-mastered many of these courses to cd), and over 30 languages are available.
the languages available are spanish, french, german, italian,  dutch, chinese, japanese and english.
order 24 hours here at the website or by calling 1-800-218-2737 8 am-5 pm pacific time.
home >  happy holidays from multilingualbooks.com search our site tweet holiday language gifts give the gift of language with  enjoyable and effective language learning gifts from multilingual books!
more about the little prince... 8.
with  wonderful and whimsical illustrations by the author, this delightful tale  straddles a world between adulthood and childhood, philosophy and fantasy,  satire and fable, and reminds one not of great children's authors of the past,  but of more unclassifiable writers like carroll, milne, and tolkien, who seem  to be writing as much for older as younger readers, and whose writings can be  enjoyed on many levels.
illustrations and explanations of the text make this course  enjoyable and easy to use .
the author, dr. kathie dior, has created a novel that captures the imagination of the reader with side-by-side english-spanish text, and a cd audiobook that provides correct pronunciation.
bilingual baby vhs these videos are a way for toddlers to become accustomed to a foreign language even if you don't speak it.
save $5 with promo music2003.
le petit prince in 30+ languages antoine de  saint-exupéry note: these books are special orders, so  they will take longer to ship than other products.
talk now $45 afrikaans albanian amharic
muzzy video series (vhs or dvd, ages 3-13) muzzy  is a very popular way for children to learn languages, and it also works as a  supplement to language courses.
now your children (and why not yourself as well?) can read the  best-selling, fly-off-the-bookshelf harry potter series in the language of your  choice!
arabic assamese basque bengali brazilian portuguese bulgarian burmese cambodian/khmer cantonese catalan croatian czech danish dutch american english british english estonian finnish french german greek gujurati hebrew hindi hungarian icelandic igbo indonesian irish italian japanese kannada korean kurdish latin latvian lithuanian malay malayalam maltese maori mandarin manx marathi nepali
foreign service institute - the course that works!
musical spanish book and cd-rom stacey tipton  has designed a course to teach spanish the fun way with music.
each level has 12 units with over 100 hours of study material.
written in 1943 by antoine de saint-exupéry, who  disappeared shortly after in wwii during a flying mission for the allies in  northern africa, it became an instant cult classic and has remained so ever  since.
now  and world talk package $79
arabic assamese basque bengali  brazilian portuguese bulgarian burmese cambodian/khmer cantonese catalan
arabic cantonese danish dutch american english british english finnish french german greek hebrew icelandic irish italian japanese mandarin norwegian polish portuguese russian spanish swedish turkish welsh more information for talk now... 11.
harry potter in 40+ languages note: these  books are special orders, so they will take longer to ship than other products.
from classic literature to children's  books, there is something for every spanish reader or student here!
more about the harry potter series... 5.
the beloved series that enchants kids and keeps adults spellbound is  now available in 24 languages.
more  about literature in spanish on audiobook... more spanish  selections... downloads | spanish | asl schools | internet radio | internet tv | press  releases | language news  | school and library  |
for our washington customers our retail location is open through dec. 24, 2003.
available in english, french, german, greek, hebrew, italian, japanese, portuguese, russian, spanish, and swedish.
more information for fsi... 10.
muzzy video series (vhs or dvd, ages 3-13) muzzy is a very popular way for children to learn languages, and it also works as a supplement to language courses.
save $20 off talk now or the talk now/world talk package with promo codetalk2003.
tell me more uses video, interactive activities and voice recognition  software to make the learning experience fun and interactive.
the award winning muzzy program is available for spanish, french, german, italian in dvd or on vhs, and in japanese, english and irish gaelic on vhs only.
here are the top picks for this holiday season.
$29.99 more information for  musical spanish... 12.
order before november 30th  to receive free shipping, or come by the store by november 30th and get a free cd-rom dictionary with any purchase over $20 (a $39 value).
top 12 foreign language products for holiday season 2003 1.
the cd-rom includes flash animations.
platiquemos has been highly rated by heartland  reviews, and the about.com spanish guide.
you are sure to find gifts for friends of all ages or a treat for yourself here, where we have been serving the language related needs of our customers for over ten years.
bilingual baby vhs these videos are a way for  toddlers to become accustomed to a foreign language even if you don't speak it.
from classic literature to children's books, there is something for every spanish reader or student here!
save $20 off talk now or the talk now/world  talk package with promo codetalk2003.
advertise order info |  faq | privacy policy | email us phone:  (253) 353 2761
holiday language gifts give the gift of language with enjoyable and effective language learning gifts from multilingual books!
choosing the right course is essential to your success in mastering spanish,  and with eight levels platiquemos is the best choice for students at any stage  of learning.
tell me more works well for  children or adults and is available in network version for schools or  organizations.
illustrations and explanations of the text make this course enjoyable and easy to use .
platiquemos: the worlds best spanish program choosing the right course is essential to your success in mastering spanish, and with eight levels platiquemos is the best choice for students at any stage of learning.
$24.95 dutch english french german greek hebrew italian  japanese portuguese russian spanish swedish more  information for bilingual baby... 9.
please note: levels 5-8 are only available on cd one level $99 level 1 - cd version level 1 -  cassette version level 2 - cd version level 2 - cassette version level 3 - cd  version level 3 - cassette version level 4 - cd version level 4 - cassette  version level 5 - cd version level 6 - cd version level 7 - cd version level 8  - cd version two levels $179 level 1 and 2 - cd version level 1 and 2 - cassette version level 2 and 3 - cd  version level 2 and 3 - cassette version level 3 and 4 - cd version level 3 and  4 - cassette version level 4 and 5 - cd version level 5 and 6 - cd version  level 6 and 7 - cd version level 7 and 8 - cd version levels 1-8 (on cd).
more information for tell me more... 6.
this  intriguing mystery motivates readers using the same learning format used at  purdue university's gifted education resource institute.
designed for diplomats and others who really need to learn a language, the foreign service courses are some of the best programs available.
$24.95 dutch english french german greek hebrew italian japanese portuguese russian spanish swedish more information for bilingual baby... 9.
norwegian papiamento polish portuguese punjabi romanian russian scots-gaelic serbian sindhi slovak slovenian somali spanish swahili swedish tagalog
each level includes a book and cds or audio cassette tapes.
tell me more uses video, interactive activities and voice recognition software to make the learning experience fun and interactive.
order before november 30th to receive free shipping, or come by the store by november 30th and get a free cd-rom dictionary with any purchase over $20 (a $39 value).
five titles are available: harry potter and the sorcerer's stone, harry potter and the chamber of secrets, harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban, harry potter and the goblet of fire, and harry potter and the order of the phoenix.
$29.99 more information for musical spanish... 12.
tamil telugu thai tibetan turkish ukrainian urdu vietnamese welsh xhosa yiddish zulu talk now and world talk package $79
talk now cd-rom language courses (windows or mac, ages 8 to adult)
more  information for platiquemos... 2.
$49.95 french (les portes tordues) - book and cd spanish (las  puertas retorcidas) - book and cd more information for  twisted doors... 7.
more spanish selections... downloads | spanish | asl schools | internet radio | internet tv | press releases | language news | school and library | advertiseorder info | faq | privacy policy | email us
videocassette edition $215 english (esl)
with talk now you are able to record and listen to your own voice.
tell me more works well for children or adults and is available in network version for schools or organizations.
available in english, french, german,  greek, hebrew, italian, japanese, portuguese, russian, spanish, and swedish.
it teaches the first 200 words using sounds, pictures, and games.
more about the harry  potter series... 5.
starting at $79 in most languages, and $199 for japanese and chinese.
with talk now you are able to record and  listen to your own voice.
harry potter in 40+ languages note: these books are special orders, so they will take longer to ship than other products.
you are sure to find gifts for friends of all ages or a treat for yourself  here, where we have been serving the language related needs of our customers  for over ten years.
this highly  acclaimed program is simple and effective and makes use of both sides of the  brain.
use promo codescary2003 and save $10.
we are proud to offer many titles in world and spanish literature for children or adults, in spanish, in audiobook format!
the beloved series that enchants kids and keeps adults spellbound is now available in 24 languages.
prices vary -save $25 on any one level course or $55 off for two levels with promo fsi-2003.
starting at $79 in most languages, and  $199 for japanese and chinese.
talk now cd-rom language courses (windows or mac,  ages 8 to adult)
$669 more information for platiquemos... 2.
the program will help to create and strengthen pathways in the brain that will help the child throughout its life.
now your children (and why not yourself as well?) can read the best-selling, fly-off-the-bookshelf harry potter series in the language of your choice!
it comes in 12 languages and teaches about 60 words, using sound and pictures.
musical spanish book and cd-rom stacey tipton has designed a course to teach spanish the fun way with music.
harry potter is rumored to be habit-forming, so don't  read one unless you're ready to read them all!
it comes in 12 languages and teaches about  60 words, using sound and pictures.
equally loved by children and adults alike,the little prince is one of the most translated books on the planet - which is fortunate, as we are able to offer here editions in many languages for your (or your child's) enjoyment!
world literature in spanish on tape we are  proud to offer many titles in world and spanish literature for children or  adults, in spanish, in audiobook format!
available in over 80 languages, talk now is a great  starter course for learning almost any language.
tell me more language software (for ages 9 to adult)
the languages available are spanish, french, german, italian, dutch, chinese, japanese and english.
please note: levels 5-8 are only available on cd one level $99 level 1 - cd version level 1 - cassette version level 2 - cd version level 2 - cassette version level 3 - cd version level 3 - cassette version level 4 - cd version level 4 - cassette version level 5 - cd version level 6 - cd version level 7 - cd version level 8 - cd version two levels $179 level 1 and 2 - cd version level 1 and 2 - cassette version level 2 and 3 - cd version level 2 and 3 - cassette version level 3 and 4 - cd version level 3 and 4 - cassette version level 4 and 5 - cd version level 5 and 6 - cd version level 6 and 7 - cd version level 7 and 8 - cd version levels 1-8 (on cd).
save $20 off the one-level price, $30 off  the two-level price or$70 off the eight-level price with promo code pl-2003.
teachers love it because children watch it  intently and enjoy learning.
italian french german irish gaelic spanish dvd edition $249 italian french german spanish muzzy introduction to japanese $199 more information for muzzy... 4.
twisted doors (the scary way to learn spanish or french)
more information for  fsi... 10.
save $15 with promo code muzzy2003.
more about literature in spanish on audiobook...
it is designed to teach students of all abilities to converse in spanish  quickly.
harry potter is rumored to be habit-forming, so don't read one unless you're ready to read them all!
with wonderful and whimsical illustrations by the author, this delightful tale straddles a world between adulthood and childhood, philosophy and fantasy, satire and fable, and reminds one not of great children's authors of the past, but of more unclassifiable writers like carroll, milne, and tolkien, who seem to be writing as much for older as younger readers, and whose writings can be enjoyed on many levels.
the award winning muzzy program is available for  spanish, french, german, italian in dvd or on vhs, and in japanese, english and  irish gaelic on vhs only.
all of these  courses come with a book and audio cassettes or cds (multilingual books has  digitally re-mastered many of these courses to cd), and over 30 languages are  available.
teachers love it because children watch it intently and enjoy learning.
please use promo codes when ordering to receive your holiday discount.
croatian czech danish dutch american english british english estonian finnish  french german greek gujurati hebrew hindi hungarian icelandic igbo indonesian  irish italian japanese kannada korean kurdish latin latvian lithuanian malay  malayalam maltese maori mandarin manx marathi nepali norwegian papiamento polish portuguese punjabi romanian russian scots-gaelic serbian sindhi slovak slovenian somali spanish swahili swedish tagalog tamil telugu thai tibetan turkish  ukrainian urdu vietnamese welsh xhosa yiddish zulu talk
for our washington customers our  retail location is open through dec. 24, 2003.
available in over 80 languages, talk now is a great starter course for learning almost any language.