she worked as a telephone operator for southwestern bell telephone co., and  as a homemaker.
" further discussion of the fremont county code led to several debates that garnered a wide range of commentary, both for and against a performance-based system.
welcoming these good folks always makes the summer sun shine just a little  brighter for us here at the chamber.
see examples of the "colorado  block" on display.
however, recent assessments by the u.s. fish and wildlife service recommended against their listing because multi-state recovery efforts have been effective in reversing declines and reducing threats to the two subspecies.
peter's grandfather has warned him not to go into the meadow  alone because it is dangerous.
kwuf radio will provide live coverage of the event 10 a.m.-1 p.m. the day begins with the canine 9k at 8 a.m. and fun run at 8:05 with registration beginning at 7.
the  youngest member of the team, she scored above 8.0 on vault in every meet and  "stuck" her beam routine at state.
the object of this workshop is to create emotionally expressive painting and collage.
finally, art holloman, district superintendent, indicated pumping operations at the recently-completed loma linda pumping station began tuesday morning.
" i look at the television screen.
in the low net category, lynn allison was first with a 69.
in both cases, older trees were left in place.
the performance will be the highlight when music in the mountains hosts a free outdoor community concert called family festivo for children of all ages in town park 11 a.m.-2 p.m. thursday, july 29.
16 or jeanneb@acoorsfdn.org or maureen mcdonald at the denver metro chamber foundation (303) 620-8038 or online from maureen.mcdonald@den-chamber.org.
these are the folks who make the concept of sheltering possible
the law does not allow these ballots to be counted on election night.
" mccloskey succeeds george, who was appointed by the governor as executive director of the dnr in january.
so keep the economy going, folks.
the chile's at the contest will be judged for the best in the hot ,mild and  open category.
plus, i'll buy you one of those cute  aprons.
we couldn't have made it without that."
what is your family background?
he worked real hard, made a good life.
experience the art of reminiscing and preserving memories to give meaning to the present and to gain hope and awareness of new possibilities for the future.
the city was hit hard by the virus last year with 228 cases.
why did these people settle here?
in the workshop you will create pueblo iii mesa verde black-on-white  pottery using prehistoric methods.
the land not claimed by utes was opened to the public.
finding the packing slips is my tongue-and-cheek  pet peeve about the job."
you will also study the work of writers ranging from henry david thoreau to john muir to isak dinesen and such contemporary authors as barry lopez, terry tempest williams and david quammen.
for further information, call the roberts at 731-3117.
lee sterling chile taste competition is aug. 5 by jim super special to the preview i had never tasted authentic mexican food until moving to the southwest 25  years ago.
have you seen the underside of a pieced quilt top before it is sandwiched with batting and backing and quilted?
senior meals program expands into arboles by musetta wollenweber special to the sun archuleta county senior services has expanded into arboles.
coloradans call also call (800) 503-5190 and be connected to local help organizations across the state.
the funds, administered by the department of the interior's bureau of land management (blm), compensate counties for nontaxable federal lands located within their boundaries.
the sessions of your life — creating a lasting legacy - this course is  designed for adults in the second half of life.
visa and master card are accepted.
an astronomical  one?
peter makes a lasso out of the rope and lets it down very carefully, catching the wolf by the tail.
the sight is stunning.
she discovered the important story about it by interviewing elder  family members.
this is it except for a rock and spear.
call the office of extended studies at 247-7385 for more information.
the gout excuse has lost its power; you have nowhere left  to hide, big boy.
joining long-term co-sponsors va and the veterans of foreign wars for the  first time as a co-sponsor is veterans canteen service (vcs).
we have the freedom to roam the countryside, on public lands.
the program covers the cost of adoption fees for pets one year of age and older.
the fall equinox is that point of time half way  between the summer and winter solstices.
formerly ute land, the ute strip was made available for public homestead claims around the turn of the 20th century shortly after the southern utes had completed filing on homesteads of their choice within the former reservation boundaries.
cruising with cruse
goldsmith writes that his parents were extremely thrilled and relieved to finally get their passports to escape germany for america feb. 25, 1941, two days before the performance of mahler's symphony, the "resurrection" with the kuba, (as the orchestra was called).
you promised beth and john a dinner and conned beth into making dinner for us.
eleven million years ago, in the constellation of taurus the bull (where the crab nebula is now), a star was born.
meals are served the first and third thursday of every month at the arboles  catholic church with a suggested donation of $2.50 for folks 60-plus and their  spouses, $4.50 for under age 60.
one person is assigned to collect the arrows.
our third new member is mark a. moore who joins us as an associate with  citizens bank pagosa.
the meeting begins at 6 p.m. and there is a nominal charge of $15 to help raise funds to support the mission of ensuring a flourishing and diverse community by enriching lives through all of the arts.
she would not admit defeat.
the destination for most people is the fall creek one, which comes in on your left.
so bring your instruments, voice and comedy routines for the fun of it.
the  cost for all three days is $130 or $123.50 for psac members.
the hillside is steep, and there's room to duck down and scramble under it.
you will journey back in time to when ancient puebloans occupied the area  around chimney rock.
where did you go to school?
"it really made the project come together.
testament, a choir composed of 30 high schoolers, is from  first united methodist church, arlington, texas, and will be here as part of  its summer tour.
although the summer months are the most dangerous, lightning casualties occur year-round.
chances are slim either was asked prior to his execution whether he was  republican or democrat, "liberal" or a "conservative."
"she was a teacher, a vibrant woman in an english village.
fun on the run i don't suffer from stress.
even if concerned citizens are certain that the young animal has been abandoned or the mother has been hit and killed by a car, it's still best to leave the baby alone and contact the dow.
dean's list students at mesa are those who maintained a 3.5 or better grade point average in 12 or more credit hours during the semester.
" in addition, campbell informed the board tuesday that an irrigation agreement between the district, town of pagosa springs and archuleta school district 50 joint has been finalized.
she was diagnosed with lou gehrig's disease in her early '50s and the decline seemed almost immediate."
a good place to begin is to understand that cats know they are family members rather than possessions.
there's several cold beers about.
since then ponderosa tru value and ponderosa do-it-best offered consumers a full variety of building materials supplies for contractors and home builders alike, outdoor goods, lawn and garden products, sporting goods, home improvement supplies, crafts items, housewares and much more with a lumber yard, store space, and lawn and garden center.
a supernova is the most violent way a star can die, and in this case its aftermath was the creation of the crab nebula.
one or two of our students are real "dummies"  but their costumes are pretty neat!
the truck then spun clockwise, went through a fence and rolled at least one time before coming to rest on its wheels.
chauncey has scaled a tall cinder block wall and he is long gone.
in addition to the education booth, visitors will have a chance to vote for their favorite among the quilts entered in the pieces of america challenge issued to guild members.
everywhere he went he made good friends, he had a gift for anyone whom would listen to him.
red ryder 2005 royalty contests slated july 1-2 red ryder royalty contests for next year have been scheduled july 1 and 2.
the range of topics  extension addresses includes: - 4-h youth development -develops important life skills in youth that build  character and assist them in making career choices that strengthen citizenship  and leadership.
their wedding will be at 11 a.m. july 10, 2004, in first assembly of god church in pagosa springs.
mike kraetsch, president of pagosa pathfinders, said youth ages 8-19 are eligible to participate in yhec, a competition involving eight events, including: 3d archery, shotgun, muzzleloader, .22 rifle, wildlife identification, a hunter safety course, orienteering and a written test.
r.c. and ruth moved to delhi in 1944  and raised a family of three boys, roddy, arby and toby.
the categories for chile this year will be red, green and a special open category.
summer reading two hundred young readers are participating in this shortened program.
- little chauncey jr. and chaunceen.
you are appreciated, each and every one of you.
to pay for travel expenses, he said, the group participates in several annual fund-raisers.
learn new techniques and gain a new way of looking at the subjects you paint.
i'll give you a web site address and you  can order me the black shirt, with the stylized wheat sheaf, and the gray shirt  with 'property of brandon wheat kings' emblazoned on the front.
the campaign kicked off this week &emdash; the nationwide lightning safety awareness week &emdash; and continues throughout the year with the clear message "lightning kills, play it safe." "lightning is an underrated killer, claiming more lives each year than tornadoes or hurricanes," said retired air force brig.
he carried food and water.
at-risk youth participate in school retention and enrichment  programs.
for more information, contact walt brown or jim powers at (970) 385-1304.
the office number is 264-8375, the fax number is 264-8376, and e-mail is afautheree@archuletacounty.org.
we stand around for awhile, admiring the miracle of american engineering and the guys urge me to "break it in and get the paint off the burners.
robbye reedy, educational booth director, has worked with her friends and fellow quilters to design an exciting experience for us all.
he was pronounced dead at the scene.
the bells, usually borrowed from milk cows, sounded wonderful on frosty nights.
beginning with "garrick gaieties" in 1925 (originally a benefit  show for the theater guild, which was so successful it had two broadway runs),  rodgers and hart's material ranged from silly satire to the poignant but daring  social commentary of "pal joey," with some of the most beautiful love  songs in all musical literature gracing each and every production.
our numbers are down this summer as schedules fill up with outdoor and  family activities, but many visitors and new residents have come to join us and  it is always a pleasure to welcome them.
in those last lingering moments flutist gunther and violinist rose marie both experience awe they had previously known only in the presence of an incandescent sunset, a tremendous thunderstorm, or some similarly splendid composition of mature.
air conditioning on hot afternoons makes the teen center a welcome refuge from the heat.
here's what i carry in a daypack on my  back.
sam was born in louisville, ky., jan. 15, 1936, the son of melvin earl and maude thomas furniss kittinger.
by mercy korsgren special to the preview the communitywide prelude to local fourth of july celebrations will be the community patriotic sing-along at the community center 7 p.m. tuesday, june 29.
children 9 and under will be admitted  at no charge.
the public is welcome to watch the contests.
a leader in geriatric care, va offers a spectrum of health care services to  veterans.
according to colorado state patrol reports, strickland was eastbound on u.s. 160 about 6 a.m. when the 2005 rented dodge minivan he was driving went off the road.
" pure subpopulations of the greenback can be found in the arkansas and the south platte basins.
according to state patrol reports, egg was cited for vehicular assault and driving under the influence.
sitting down to eat i was greeted by the owner.
during winter, the roads were never cleared of snow and sleighing was the best way of going places.
there is  a class for toddlers and their moms at 10 a.m.; a class for children age five  to seven at 11 a.m.; and a class for children age 8 to 12 beginning at 1 p.m. registration is ongoing throughout the summer, and children can try a class  without having to make a long-term commitment.
tickets are $10 - tuesday, sept. 28 - full moon rise program - harvest moon why does the harvest moon appear larger and different in color from other full moons?
nature writing - nature is an ever-changing pageant of texture and color, dynamism and quietude, of sweeping grandeur and brilliant detail.
as well, donations from the bank of the  san juans, lpea roundup foundation and the town of pagosa springs are helping  to fund the event.
unleashing the power of watercolor with joye moon, july 5-8.
besides a normal lunch i throw in a couple of granola-type bars and candy, and i carry two bottles of water.
this workshop builds on the basics of watercolor - beginners i and uses everything students learned in that class.
am i in  the stream bed or on the trail?
the one with your name on it.
the fine art of greeting cards - learn a multitude of artistic techniques to create your own sendable, framable greeting cards, tags, and envelopes.
2004 rendezvous the brotherhood of free trappers will host the 2004 pagosa springs  rendezvous beginning today and continuing through june 27, 8 a.m.-6 p.m. daily  on reservoir hill.
though many people infected with west nile only experience flu-like symptoms, some may contract meningitis and lifelong polio-like symptoms, and some may die.
lending authenticity  to this schoolroom are antique school desks with some old school items your  grandpa might remember.
later, when the family moved to texas the quilt top was packed away and mrs. dehart died before she could, if she ever intended to, complete it.
free flags provided by the chamber of commerce will  be given to all who attend.
mayor ross aragon asked allen to present more detailed information to the commission, including a map of where the trees are located that need protection.
at the bottom the fine  spray sparkles like diamond mist.
hoyle hafely hoyle leon hafely passed to be with his lord on wednesday, june 16, 2004.
featuresfeatures taking aim at youth:
the table and chairs set, with colorful umbrella, is another four hundred.
it now allows unaffiliated voters and qualifying high school students to serve as judges and for judges to serve in a precinct other than their own.
everything should be wonderful, if i remember to get the propane tank  filled.
two vehicles were already at the trailhead when i started.
if you would like to play games, chill with friends or shoot  hoops, come join us.
mcinnis, who has introduced separate legislation that would fully fund pilt and the refuge revenue sharing program, has many counties in his sprawling western colorado district that rely heavily on the payments.
in addition to the unforgettable music, comedy, dancing and drama of such  musicals as "oklahoma!"
reserved seat tickets may be purchased at the plaid pony,  731-5262.
every once in a while, some unthinking patrons will take it upon themselves to offer editorial thoughts about the content of a book.
second, have you saved  the money?
beer garden a beer garden will be set up on 5th street near the fields with some of  your favorite cold beers.
she also placed second in floor exercise with a 9.05, third on beam with  8.6, fourth on bars with 8.55 and fourth in vault with 8.3.
the plpoa team, under the able "captainship" of steve elges, raised over $1,700 and was awarded a certificate for top fund-raising non-profit group.
this class is filling up fast, only a  few spots remain.
" "everyone?" "well, sure.
it depends completely on the style of archery a person chooses.
local chatter music - a precious art form with special powers by kate terry sun columnist june 25
sign up now for unleashing the power of watercolor, july 5, 6, 7 and 8 at the pagosa springs community center.
many people have that special recipe  of their own for chile, so the challenge is to prove that your recipe is the  best by entering the second annual lee sterling chile taste thursday, aug. 5.
the roar of the water awesome.
check out www.ourayarts.org  for more information.
picture this: me, on the ground, on my back amidst the wreckage.
you can use  the grill to help you become a semi-likable person.
"i graduated from stanley high school and attended louisiana tech  university."
the light from this cataclysmic event reached earth 6,300 years later, on the aforementioned fourth of july in 1054 a.d. (if you prefer to consider the distance from the explosion to earth in actual miles, the figure is 40 quintillion.)
our  children may have to battle terrorism.
warmer weather hit here this week with a high of 83 degrees being recorded tuesday.
the 4-h involvement with pet pride day is new this year.
west nile a real threat; mosquito control urged how concerned are you about west nile virus?
contact the visitor's cabin at 883-5359 for tickets.
i ordered chile con carne, and my palate was greeted by new tastes such as cilantro, cumin and, of course, the principal of this dish, red chile.
for additional information and to make reservations, e-mail  davejackman@earthlink.net.
rotary holiday parade don't forget to pick up your entry form for the july 4 parade sponsored as  always by our pagosa springs rotary club with great prizes awarded to winners  in categories that include commercial, nonprofit and service groups,  individuals and families, youth groups and musical.
they are scheduled to come before the council july 6 at 5 p.m.
"by next spring, these fish will also be of catchable size.
r.c. williams funeral services for r. c. williams, 91, of delhi, la., were at 2 p.m. wednesday, june 23, 2004, at the cox funeral home in delhi.
there will be a gentle, yet informative critique at the end of each day.
somehow, we got onto the subject of red and green chile.
except this ball of fire appeared in the sky over chimney rock and the four corners area in the year 1054 a.d. remaining for three weeks as a large star visible even in the day and shining as brightly as the full moon at night, it gradually faded away and vanished - but not before the world had seen and recorded this amazing apparition, now recognized as the birth of the crab nebula supernova.
am i in the stream bed or on the trail?
however, nurseries that are victims of drought disasters can apply.
you  may also e-mail psac@centurytel.net or greenacres1@centurytel.net.
then you will surely want to visit the education corner at pagosa quilt fest  2004.
we will open the bids by the end of july.
great detail in planning for this year's event will create the feeling of  old mexico.
because here in the mountains you never know when a storm might come up.
this class is filling up fast, only a few spots remain.
karl isbergpacing pagosa vignettes of pagosa's faith by richard walter staff writer
living with the loss (widow/widowers support group), 1 p.m. tuesday, june 29 - no yoga in motion; advanced computer class, 10:30 a.m.; massage, 11 a.m-1p.m.; youth choir sings, 1 p.m. wednesday, june 30 - beginning computer, 10:30 a.m.; canasta, 1 p.m. friday, july 2 - qi gong, 10 a.m.; blood pressure check, 11; veterans' benefits, noon menu friday, june 25 - beef stew, mixed green salad, biscuit and fruit parfait monday, june 28 - chicken fajitas, refried beans, spanish rice, stewed tomatoes and fresh fruit tuesday, june 29 - hamburger potato salad, relish platter, bananas and strawberries wednesday, june 30 - jeweled pork loin, squash, green beans almondine, biscuit and baked apple friday, july 2 - hot turkey sandwich, mashed potatoes/gravy, cranberry sauce, green beans and fruit salad.
participants have the option to create their spiritual autobiography in solitude or within a small group setting.
it is on loan to us from ms. dorothy van antwerp of rio rancho, n.m.
by leanne goebel special to the preview join the board of directors and members at the annual meeting of the pagosa springs arts council tonight at jj's upstream.
her logo was a c over t overlay in bright color shading.
when walter's fine horses were hitched to the sleigh there was a real thrill for speed.
nevertheless, despite potential changes, any questions involved will be important, "tough questions," concluded baker.
we have many "visitors" to our area but, unfortunately, not all of them have this area's best intentions at heart.
brad is happy to bring you reliable and affordable service with integrity.
prices are $12 for adults, $10 for seniors, and $6 for children.
gen. david l. johnson, nws director.
the coaches will be assisted by members of the pirate varsity.
this workshop builds on the basics of watercolor - beginners i and uses  everything students learned in that class.
as a result, district staff will now evaluate the adequacy of water rights based on a set of new guidelines established in the resolution.
the national senior olympics is a community-based member  of the united states olympic committee and recognizes senior u.s. athletes in  several age-groups.
comments may also be e-mailed to: nbasin-cbm-eis@fs.fed.us.
call for individual day rates.
about 27 pagosa youths are members of pathfinders, competing in regional, state and international challenges.
funeral services will be held at a later date in mission burial park south  in san antonio, texas.
july will present two full moons and two full moon programs at chimney rock.
annual membership dues are $15 for a single, and $20 for a family which includes two adults and all children under age 18 living in the same household.
"i look forward to continuing our working relationship, and i know that coloradans are fortunate to have bruce leading the agency charged with protecting our wildlife resources." mccloskey, who had been serving as acting director of the dow, has been with the department for over 30 years, serving in numerous positions, including deputy director, state wildlife manager, and district wildlife manager.
for example, even though a property may be within the district, if adequate water rights have not been dedicated for the proposed/increased use, "any district commitment to serve will not be issued until the dedication is made as provided herein."
learn how quilters have embraced technology.
performances of this full-scale musical production (with a cast of over 50 singers, dancers, and musicians) start at 7:30 p.m. in the pagosa springs high school auditorium.
for further information, call 264-2167.
food for thoughtfood for thought fire up the grill; no wheat kings shirts this father's day by karl isberg sun columnist "father's day is just around the corner.
her interest was piqued, so she researched the history of the era of this quilt top.
"the $600 credit is very easy to apply for.
for more information call 259-2606.
but experts say not spraying puts communities and human health at serious risk.
so, you're ready to spend three hundred dollars to have a cookout?
creative courses the fort lewis college extended studies program is offering the following courses.
watch the paper and the chimney rock web site (www.chimneyrockco.org) for specific dates and times.
mr. and mrs. williams first came to pagosa springs in 1974.
"i think you have to be very careful about how you do something like this," tracy bunning said.
i'm a respiratory therapist and know the high altitude "up there" will cause numerous problems to the flatlanders.
please contact the contest officiator, kim moore, at 731-0426 for complete details and event times.
but, she said, her sister would not give in.
as long as these two forces are in balance, the star neither expands nor  collapses, and thus remains stable.
a strolling mariachi will serenade diners as they feast on an unlimited array of chili.
sure it would make a long day, but i knew  people who had done it.
call the office of extended studies  at 247-7385 for more information.
think about this situation you've created: it's shameful, karl.
but visit our old times schoolroom where you will have fun while you test your knowledge or just assemble a puzzle or organize a "pretend quilt."
urban agriculture programs support residents and communities with urban forestry, home and public landscape, pest and disease control, lawn waste management, farmers' markets, and developing skilled master gardeners - community and economic development - assists local governments investigate and create viable options for economic and community development such as improved job creation and retention, small and medium sized business development, effective and coordinated homeland defense and emergency response, solid waste disposal, tourism development, workforce education, and land use planning - family and consumer sciences - helps families and communities become more resilient and healthy by teaching nutrition, obesity prevention, food preparation skills, positive child care, family communication, financial management, and health care strategies - leadership development -trains extension professionals and volunteers to deliver programs in gardening, health and safety, family and consumer issues, 4-h youth development, and prepares citizens to serve in leadership roles in the community - natural resources - teaches landowners and homeowners how to use natural resources more wisely and protect the environment with educational programs in water quality and water conservation, timber management, composting, and recycling.
cd copies of the draft eis are available at the san juan public lands center, 15 burnett court, durango, 247-4874, and columbine public lands office, 367 pearl street, bayfield, (970) 884-2512.
232 for more details.
the mailing of 18,000 pieces would have been arduous without  the kind help of the volunteers.
the association sent its eight low handicap golfers to play cortez conquistador club june 17 and picked up 38 points in match play against dalton ranch golf club of durango.
in colorado, cutthroat trout that are rescued in the wild are taken to isolation units in salida and rifle before they are transferred to one of several quarantine facilities around the state.
stop by our booth and learn more about chimney rock, its programs and volunteer opportunities.
the critters' synthetic hides are worn, the designated kill zones dotted with the marks of arrows.
the canine 9k starts at 8 a.m. with a  7-7:45 check-in and late registration.
" judges are needed for the primary election aug. 10 and the general election nov. 2.
her interest was piqued, so she researched the history of the  era of this quilt top.
"something you've needed for a long time.
" "therapy?" "well, again, that's something that could be of great value, although it's a bit late in the game.
it takes technique and know  how with this delicious dish, from the fiery hot variety for the more daring  souls or mild for the meeker taste buds.
phone number is 247-2214.
we are moving ahead with a season of  girl's softball and hope to get many more girls to join this year.
of course they'd rather have been first, but pagosa's young gymnasts are  proud of their team achievement.
we are in the "permit" stage at present.
if you are interested, bring your bid in a dated, sealed envelope along  with your name, address and phone number.
call for  individual day rates.
you promised beth and john a dinner and conned  beth into making dinner for us.
some people like this kind of thing; they scamper over the rocks like big horn sheep.
in addition to local talent, a visiting youth choir will sing several  patriotic medleys.
pay is $15-$25 per game.
through  exhibiting my work as well as teaching, i can share the lessons i have learned  with others who are eager to experience the creative challenge," moon said.
i have a gift in mind that will fill a need as well as speak of love and gratitude on father's day, and i want you to go check it out before i buy it.
after graduating from high school she married  lawrence gerhards in brownsville in november 1949.
she will present four new projects designed specifically for pagosa springs.
gate open 6-6:30 p.m.
four-day watercolor workshop at psac
yes." "where will we put the grill?" "on the deck, of course.
there is a wide variety of pets to choose from.
"nowhere is pilt more important than it is to us in rural colorado," said mcinnis.
in those last  lingering moments flutist gunther and violinist rose marie both experience awe  they had previously known only in the presence of an incandescent sunset, a  tremendous thunderstorm, or some similarly splendid composition of mature.
beyond the meadow is a deep, dark forest.
the critters, 21 in all, spread out over a 3/4-mile course winding in and out and up and down the hills, stare with beady eyes at a parade of archers streaming by from 9 a.m.-4 p.m. on a fine summer sunday.
she will present four new projects designed specifically for pagosa  springs.
well, it's actually more of a turnaround.
the  office number is 264-8375, the fax number is 264-8376, and e-mail is  afautheree@archuletacounty.org.
the spanish fiesta royalty will grace us with their  presence as our servers for the evening.
one, called "dancing on the ceiling,"  suggested that the singer imagined his or her lover was dancing every evening  on his or her ceiling.
spraying the answer?
hoyle was celebrating his 80th year with gusto.
the guys at the store will help you load things in the  truck."
if you're interested, let me know.
we veterans can lead the community in patriotic spirit and show support for our country, and honor all those who serve in our military today.
but let's say the land is sold and all of sudden someone wants to put a five-story hotel on the property," added tautges.
by karen carpenter special to the preview last friday's open mic was a collage of sounds and an excellent way to get over any microphone phobia one might have.
increased consumption of water, growth of the town and better fire protection necessitated the improvement.
and it is here that we step back in time and examine the impact quilts have as silent messengers.
national veterans golden age games set in july from the east coast to the west, more than 500 "golden age" veterans will gather in fresno, calif., in july for the nation's largest sporting event for senior military veterans.
moon will also feature work painted on location in france and italy.
call hamilton at 264-2441 to register or for more information.
a 30-percent chance for afternoon showers is in the forecast for wednesday, as are highs in the upper 70s and lows near 40.
"let's get down to some of that." "i think we should have a survey and i think we should find out what the public thinks," responded commissioner alden ecker.
summer vacations are ending and the fall routine is about to begin.
the hot strings have been invited to join us every year for as long as they are willing to, so we are always especially happy to welcome them back each year.
the art of basketry - create your own basket as you learn the history and technique of basketry from a number of different cultures, including navajo, zuni, and others.
typically seen as the civilizing force for this untamed region, women instead often were feisty and unwilling to live by the conventional rules they had left behind.
regional winners advance to the sate championships and will get to see a rockies game.
here's what i carry in a daypack on my back.
the advisory board will meet 5:30 p.m. thursday, july 1.
for further information, call  the roberts at 731-3117.
this used to be the central stock driveway, and in the old days thousands of pointy little sheep feet went up and down it each summer.
the  oral history of this family heirloom, as interpreted by ms. van antwerp, begins  in the 1850s in louisiana.
watch the paper and the chimney rock web site (www.chimneyrockco.org) for  specific dates and times.
on top of me is a large gas grill, burners still  aflame.
everything should be wonderful, if i remember to get the propane tank filled.
dan brauch, a division aquatic biologist in gunnison who is involved with interstate efforts to recover cutthroat trout, said colorado wants to establish additional pure, non-hybridized populations of colorado river cutthroat trout on six major rivers on the western slope, including the yampa, the white, the colorado, the gunnison, the dolores and the san juan drainages.
mercy and i have been  friends for many years, so i consider it a great honor that she asked me to be  emcee.
waste  not, want not?
new books "making period dolls' house accessories," by andrea barham will give you ideas on how to make realistic miniature items to furnish and decorate a doll house.
aurora even sends a card every other year or so." "and that's enough for you?
it is being managed for wildland fire use, meaning that it is being allowed to burn in an attempt to reach a more natural fire regime in the wilderness.
the local meeting will be held tuesday, july 20, 4-7 p.m., at archuleta county fairgrounds extension building, 344 u.s. 84.
the program was spearheaded last year by businessmen larry fisher and thaddeus cano and moved forward after eventually getting the green light from the colorado division of wildlife.
any type of equipment - with the exception of crossbows - is accepted on the shoots and nearly all kinds are represented, from the most basic of longbows made of string and wood to the most complicated of compound bows.
she writes for  dolls' house world magazine and lives in england.
in 1994, congress attempted to address this concern by increasing the program's authorization levels.
so you will want to be familiar  with the characters and the basic story.
highs should reach into the 80s; lows should register in the 40s.
the camp will be conducted by the pagosa pirate coaching staff, including head coach penné hamilton, junior varsity coach connie o'donnell and c-team coach norma schaffer.
the district's volunteer firefighters were released about two hours later and county crews finished mop-up about 10 p.m.
schweickert prefers the more traditional equipment in his own shooting.
he said the project has been designed to complement the feel of some of the other recent construction downtown and will include six street lights.
three men win golf league skins a skins game, made popular by the tv golf show of the same name, was the format for the men's golf league june 15.
so, where will they go for medical help?
"a lot of the problems that these species are having are directly associated with humans.
local extension professionals apply their expertise and connect community residents to the resources of the nation's great teaching and research universities to help solve locally-identified problems.
our children may have to battle terrorism.
"' locals jessica brown jessica brown, of pagosa springs, was named to the dean's honor roll at  abilene christian university for the spring 2004 semester.
according to a report by the centers for disease control and prevention, the drop in cases in that city was far more dramatic than the gradual decrease in infection rates in the rest of the state.
june madrid, county clerk, said, colorado law used to require an equal number of democrats and republicans at each polling place at any election.
you have  to learn from a master at the art of chile making.
as a result, at its meeting last night (which occurred after press time)
candidates must reside in the district in which election is sought; petitions must contain 15 or more signatures from members living in the candidate's district, and the deadline for returning petitions to the lpea office is 5 p.m. wednesday, july 28.
while we can't put it in our collection with these notes, we will consider  typing up the notes and sharing them with anyone interested in going there.
the trash that comes across the internet and the airwaves from campaign strategists works to strengthen this view; we cannot succumb.
grandfather takes peter home and a big gray wolf comes  out of the forest.
scheduled by operation healthy communities, proponents say the meeting will help people learn how such initiatives made a difference in dolores, montezuma and la plata counties and to decide if it makes sense for archuleta county.
adults, teens, and children are welcome to sit and "play" with the quilt activities that teach about the art and craft of quilting.
ken peterson, a 62-year-old army veteran and multi-year competitor in the games from toledo, ohio, has overcome three bouts with cancer, undergoing both radiation and chemotherapy treatments.
for information on these and other veteran's benefits please call or stop  by the veterans service office on the lower floor of the county courthouse.
open dancing  and too much fun till 11.
he worked as an instrument specialist in long beach,  calif., and was a member of the eagles fraternal organization.
"paying the bills is my primary job responsibility."
isn't there something more important we could spend the money on?
" congress authorized the pilt program in 1976, recognizing that counties and other local government entities with substantial acreage of federal land could not collect sufficient taxes to provide needed services or were taxing fewer residents at higher rates to provide services.
program begins at the great house pueblo at 10.
however, she said, because of the busy summer season it might not be possible to start the process until the fall.
james says that in addition to taking precautions to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes, citizens should check with their local governments to learn how they are controlling the spread of the virus in their areas.
you might think this is a lot to carry, but trust me, if something went  wrong
the large two-volume document is also available for review at these offices.
arts line join the board at psac annual meeting tonight
some were the  pioneer settlers in our state.
these loans are intended to assist businesses in offsetting working capital losses which they suffered as a result of the severe weather reducing crop income of area farmers and ranches.
experience the art of reminiscing and preserving memories to give  meaning to the present and to gain hope and awareness of new possibilities for  the future.
this interactive seminar will focus on the elements of descriptive, nonfiction writing and will involve in-class exercises and weekly writing assignments.
to claim land in the bondad area during the run, each man drove stakes in the ground to outline his claim.
howell's paintings evoke the beauty and vitality of the ancient culture.
besides, they can double as windbreakers.
new director you may or may not be aware that nan rowe recently resigned her position as a chamber of commerce board director to pursue interests in the political arena.
play will continue throughout the summer with playoffs beginning in august.
this is the third consecutive summer that music in the mountains will offer  musical events here in pagosa, and the first time we have had a free outdoor  concert for the community.
library news wooden card catalog slated for silent auction by lenore bright sun columnist our wooden card catalog has not been in use for many years.
isn't it fun that you can buy and buy and some months later decide that you  have tired of those purchases or perhaps it has outgrown its useful life.
last week's stocking - the first of three scheduled this summer - consisted of approximately 500 pounds of plump rainbows.
auditions set for youth roles in 'peter and the wolf' by carole howard special to the preview auditions will take place in the high school choir room 6-8 p.m. monday, june 28, for boys and girls 10-12 who would like to play one of the eight to ten characters in "peter and the wolf" next month.
while i realize the increase in risk associated with the chopstick use is negligible, especially in pagosa, i find this study a good excuse to eat more finger foods.
this strategic partnership of america's great public land grant  universities and federal, state, and local governments enables the cooperative  extension system to deliver critically needed educational programs at the grass  roots level throughout the nation.
bring your dd form 214 (discharge) for registration with the county, application for va programs, and for filing in the vso office.
there will be no qi gong june 25 and no yoga in motion june 29.
the state's bid to return cutthroat trout to their historic range took on a new perspective in 1997 when the colorado wildlife commission issued a high-priority directive guiding management polices and long-term goals.
she used this opportunity to explore incorporating collage and drawing techniques with her paintings.
the judge greets you warmly by name and then asks for some identification before letting you vote.
calling all our great cooks to not delay, you may be the new winner of the red, green, or in between category.
public comments may be presented orally or in writing to the subcommittee.
you will move to the head of the class when you try out our trivia quiz, preview our library display, make a pretend quilt, or study a little quilt history.
she stated with all honesty, "i'm from long island.
my first  experience came in tucson, ariz.
everyone is welcome to attend.
we also hope they will be encouraged to learn more about great music and the many instruments that bring it to life.
according to colton, clear skies this morning are expected to grow increasingly cloudy by this afternoon.
visa and  master card are accepted.
monday-friday, july 19-23, 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. with a full-day field trip thursday, july 22.
no one would know where i was in an emergency.
"we had to make a decision about whether to try and return the animal to its mother, or send it to a wildlife rehabilitator to eventually be returned to the wild on its own," said deeney.
" what do you like best about the community?
brush grows over what might have been the  trail, so i take to the rocks around it.
in fact, she taught until just 30 days before her death.
remembering your story — creating a spiritual autobiography - are you  seeking a renewed sense of life?
dick cole, search and rescue supervising coordinator, said rhea was wearing hiking shorts and a short-sleeved golf shirt.
she had to be pushed into the room in a wheelchair and pupils vied for the right to print messages on the chalkboard.
the chile's at the contest will be judged for the best in the hot ,mild and open category.
this quilt top may have been placed over the clothesline or fence with the  lighter colored road squares pattern pointing north to the next station on the  journey to freedom.
he is the originator and conductor of the music in the mountains symphony orchestra, 15 of whom will play for us at this concert.
"so get to it, chubby.
then a cat slinks into the meadow, preying upon the  bird.
county to receive $522,307 as its pilt fund share archuleta county is set to receive $522,307 as its share of $17.6 million coming to colorado in the federal government's payment-in- lieu-of tax (pilt) program.
this quilt top may have been placed over the clothesline or fence with the lighter colored road squares pattern pointing north to the next station on the journey to freedom.
that figure is down from 2003's year-to-date total of 74, and significantly lower than 2002's mark of 97.
tickets  are $10 - tuesday, sept. 28 - full moon rise program - harvest moon why does the harvest moon appear larger and different in color from other  full moons?
u.s. rep. scott mcinnis announced the payment schedule june 18.
fire monitors reported some precipitation in the area monday.
fair volunteers please keep in mind that ronnie doctor is still looking for volunteers for this year's county fair and would love to receive a call from you.
in 1916 he journeyed cross the lone star state, on an iron wheel wagon his  family found their fate.
you will cover a  basic understanding of photography and an application of how to better use your  camera.
hot food, cool art the pagosa springs arts council and the pagosa chamber of commerce will host a sundowner wednesday, july 28, in town park.
what did i know about  chile?" her words ring true for all of us who want to make a great chile.
three halogen lights illuminate a framed glass lid, which opens for easy access to jewelry.
i am covered with grease and a load of overcooked burgers and  bratwursts.
there is a small stream of water flowing down.
they exist in the moderate center, in the rich heartland of cooperative american ideas and ideals.
then you will surely want to visit the education corner at pagosa quilt fest 2004.
best of luck to all entries of the chile festival.
we are thrilled to announce that the pagosa hot strings will once again  grace us with their presence and music at the concert sunday beginning at 7  p.m. until the fireworks begin at dusk.
in short, some attendees wondered aloud if a wide range of opinions on potential policies will continue to be evaluated or if decisions on code details will be left to the task force.
cost for the benefit shoot is $15 for a single youth or adult (13 and over); $20 for a couple or $25 for a family.
"the  national veterans golden age games bring together veterans who landed at  normandy, pows from korea and purple heart recipients from vietnam.
well here are the details, right from the director's mouth (computer).
"we help teach them safety and they help teach us how to shoot," schweickert said with a shake of his head, commenting on the accuracy of some of the young shooters.
the rockies baseball skills challenge is a competition allowing  youngsters to showcase their talents in base running, batting and throwing with  scores based on speed, distance and accuracy.
moon demonstrates the projects several times during the day and prides herself in giving each student individual attention.
there were no telephones.
theories, legends and archaeological findings, as well as  archaeoastronomy insights, are presented.
for more information visit greg wood's web site at www.
five hours later, douglas strickland, 42, of jackson, mich., was killed in another single-vehicle rollover.
anyone violating the provisions of these fire restrictions may be subject to prosecution outlined in the southern ute criminal code.
the cat springs up into the tree!
the owner smiled fondly after them.
in the works for three years, the agreement provides for irrigation water to be pumped from the san juan river and supplied to a number of sites in the downtown area, the most recent of which being the town sports complex.
in beginners ii there will be  lessons and exercises about shapes, composition and design, choosing subjects,  further study about value and color, and advanced techniques such as lifting,  scraping, masking, glazing, working with sponges, salt, saran wrap and waxed  paper.
the haynes once told the sun they would operate with the motto: "service like grandad had."
a friend of mine sniffs at my sense of thrift and calls it a "sign of  personal virtue and not much more."
more next week on early settlement in the san juan basin.
what about an outstanding business or corporation, foundation, youth or youth group?
if you are interested, bring your bid in a dated, sealed envelope along with your name, address and phone number.
our hope lies in the fact many americans are still able to deal with complexity and ambiguity, to think through issues and make decisions without recourse to the stereotypes created by political strategists, pr people and biased media.
lowered blood pressure and stress reduction are among the benefits of pet ownership.
"people are under the impression that if a calf or fawn is newborn its mother is with it at all times," said district wildlife manager brett ackerman, who oversees the area south of rifle, where wildlife "pickups" are all too common.
the beer garden is sponsored by four corner folk festival, with some of the proceeds coming back to the fireworks show.
call 385-1210 for more information and to register.
we are in danger of losing our foundation, of losing the very things our enemies hate, if we continue to buy into a vision of a radically polarized america.
hiring officials the recreation department continues to seek individuals interested in officiating baseball, volleyball, soccer or basketball.
a few days after deeney returned the calf elk to douglas pass, yamashita was with a group of golfers when they came upon a fawn in tall grass at tiara rado.
i'll be there at 8 a.m. to cut the ribbon to begin the 9k race with all other events scheduled to begin at 9 a.m.
if you have a limited income and don't have prescription drug insurance from a former employer or medicaid, you may be eligible.
it's beyond being an embarrassment; it's a  hazard to health and home.
two county wildland fire trucks and two fire district trucks, plus personnel, fought visible flames covering about a quarter acre in the dump.
catlovers don't pussy foot around: they know the little purrballs are the cat's meow.
"she may wander off for a bit to feed or drink.
in addition, the dow plans to stock 5,000 brown trout fingerlings in late august or early september.
don winter is the president of the new club.
and, at chimney rock, they may have constructed one wall of the great house  to align with this event.
i don't expect anything.
" furthermore, "we reviewed several zoning and districting options during that time," said van patter, indicating the meetings "explored and evaluated alternative scenarios" that would meet the vision of the community plan "in a politically and socially acceptable code that is administratively feasible.
for more information on the club, or sponsoring a target, call clemison at 731-9622.
jewelry case donated a jewelry display case, designed, constructed, and donated by david smith  is now on display at the gallery.
how much fun is it that one man's trash could be another man's treasure?
yet unlike a century ago,  local problem solving today has the potential of being impacted by a variety of  national and global conditions that require the expertise and resources of the  total university, and conversely, local decisions can much more quickly impact  state, national and global issues.
sitting there is the same person who has worked as an election judge each of the previous 10 times you voted.
traditionally thought of as a rural  program, the 21st century extension system touches almost every aspect of  people's lives in urban, suburban and rural areas.
50 years ago taken from sun files of june 25, 1954
another bondad settler was wm.
"but it is more flexible, there is no doubt about it," said robbins, indicating such codes are usually easier to adopt but often more difficult to apply.
small businesses claiming to have been physically injured by disaster are not eligible.
northern lunar standstill the moon stands still?
according to mike japhet, a fisheries biologist with the dow, the division plans to stock the san juan with over 12,000 rainbow trout (at least 3,100 fish in the 10-inch range each stocking) on four occasions between now and early august.
we can build castles again or we can feel sorry for ourselves."
a first aid kit that includes a mylar space blanket and an ace bandage, bandages and tape and antibiotic ointment.
my first experience came in tucson, ariz.
there will be a visiting youth choir from the first united methodist church in arlington, texas, on the program.
moon teaches watercolor workshops all over the u.s. as well as in other countries.
such will be the case this again this year.
in 1987, the haynes acquired federal lumber at a site near the intersection of u.s. 160 and piedra road.
winners, of course, will receive ribbons.
the blows against us will continue and we can ill afford  to add to the damage by buying into a false view of america, of an america of  extremes locked in irremediable conflict.
a final memorial will be  held sunday, june 27, 2004.
second, have you saved the money?
the pagosa piecemakers quilt guild sponsors quilt fest 2004.
it's being used as a plant stand.
plan to attend this event and feel free to call  264-5020 with questions.
do you see  geometry or symbolism in some antique quilts?
campbell said she feels a "nationwide" permit is probably appropriate and hopes that is the eventual determination "because it makes the process a lot simpler."
"i like the small town atmosphere and low amount of traffic."
whether it's computer or phone related, he can offer  you great customer service in the areas of repair, upgrades, networking and  tutoring.
uncover and explore the connection between  your unique life story and the story of the others through the sacred texts  from the hebrew and christian scriptures and contemporary stories, music, and  art.
in some ways, the polarization goes back to the  nixon years, perhaps to the mccarthy era, and each side in an increasingly  cartoonish political game contributes.
cited for their academic performance were mylinda l. blankenship, drisa a.
madrid said colorado law was recently changed to conform to the help america vote act of 2002 signed by president bush.
to encourage adoption, the humane society of pagosa springs joins the american society for the prevention of cruelty to animals (aspca) and fresh step, to proclaim june as adopt-a shelter-cat month.
in more recent years ms. van antwerp, a history teacher and quilter, rescued it.
water levels are starting to drop somewhat but it appears that high water may be running well into july this year.
patsy linbald, president of the alpha property owners association, said the group rejects any new roads into the subdivision because of increased traffic, dust and maintenance costs as well as negative impacts on privacy and property values.
check out www.ourayarts.org for more information.
the teens explored different sound and musical venues from keyboard accompaniment to jokes and even sound effects.
learn more about her at www.amyrosnerfineart.com or contact amy at livingart@cox.net or (602) 697-9456.
as well, donations from the bank of the san juans, lpea roundup foundation and the town of pagosa springs are helping to fund the event.
custom  packages are available to you as well as outcalls, so give joanne a call at  264-1433 to learn more about ancient wisdom healing and ageless beauty.
the athletes compete in open and wheelchair divisions in specific age  groups.
property values are already so high, why the heck would we want them to get higher?
through assignments, students will learn compositional elements and  ansel adams' zone metering system.
a study of more  than 2,500 residents of beijing, china found that osteoarthritis was more  common in the hands used to operate chopsticks - and in the fingers  specifically stressed by chopstick use (the thumb and the second and third  joints on the first and third fingers).
" another significant factor in the fremont code is the review process, which evaluates development proposals according to a "scoring system" comprised of three major components: "absolute standards," "relative, standards" and "importance factors.
"lightning can strike up to 10 miles away from a thunderstorm." national weather service is the primary source for weather data, forecasts and warnings for the united states and its territories.
even if you don't have one of those forms, you might be entitled to vote a provisional ballot at the polling place.
a number of groups will be represented in the program, a prelude to the community's fourth of july celebration.
mercy korsgren, community center director, is delighted to organize this  communitywide gathering to celebrate our national heritage and is hopeful this  will become an annual event in pagosa.
watercolor - beginners ii, aug. 11-13, with denny rose and virginia bartlett.
look at this year's local relay for life effort - over $53,000 was raised in this community to help cancer patients and to continue the funding of cancer research.
women writers of the west -for more than a hundred years, the west has been  somewhere that strong, independent women - who didn't fit in elsewhere - could  make a place for themselves.
it's going to be a tough habit to break.
unfortunately, when a human finds the baby animal, the human usually hangs around for long enough to deter the cow or doe from returning immediately, particularly if the fawn is touched or the area around it receives heavy human traffic."
great detail in planning for this year's event will create the feeling of old mexico.
this always-fun day will include a 9k race for adults, a fun run for the  kids (both races with dogs), the paws parade with kids, pets and costumes,  canine good citizenship certification, breed showcase, llama performance and a  reunion of owners and dogs that were adopted from the shelter.
did you know that pieced designs or  "blocks" often have names?
and then i'm almost at the top of the  cliff.
the fire has not flared up again.
gates open 9:30- 9:45 p.m.
our loss of loved ones, he said, is first like the loss of sand castles.
they explained that the pagosa children's theatre audition will have two parts: first, aspiring young actors are asked to choose their favorite animal and be prepared to act as that animal without sound for one minute.
it takes technique and know how with this delicious dish, from the fiery hot variety for the more daring souls or mild for the meeker taste buds.
the meat is cut in thin pieces, against the grain.
our adult softball leagues continue in full "swing" with six  men's and five coed teams doing battle each monday and wednesday night.
this design provides high strength in a delicate and light form suitable for exhibiting jewelry.
our medicare counselors are available at the senior center mondays 11 - 1," wollenweber said.
up and at 'em, chunky." "but chauncey is having an affair with the gal at the drive-thru window and, for crying out loud, taneesha just had twins.
" yamashita and the other golfers opted to leave the fawn alone, which is the suggested course of action in almost all cases.
extension is unique in structure and function.
by bill nobles sun columnist today - 12:30 p.m. 4-h entomology, extension office, 12:30 p.m. monday, june 21 - 4-h dog obedience, extension office-exhibit hall, 4 p.m.;  4-h sports fishing, extension office, 4 p.m.; 4h-shooting sports, ski & bow  rack, 4 p.m.
our social studies lesson entitled "heritage through oral tradition" hangs on the back wall in our schoolroom.
traditionally thought of as a rural program, the 21st century extension system touches almost every aspect of people's lives in urban, suburban and rural areas.
the oral history of this family heirloom, as interpreted by ms. van antwerp, begins in the 1850s in louisiana.
a leader in geriatric care, va offers a spectrum of health care services to veterans.
on july 3 and 4 the show will be open  from 11 a.m.-7 p.m. and on july 4 it will be open from 11 a.m.-4 p.m.
prognosis is not always good for infants brought into captivity.
chamber newschamber news join the patriotic sing-along to kick off july 4 celebration by sally hamiester sun columnist the communitywide prelude to our local july 4 celebrations will take place next tuesday evening, june 29, at the community center, and you are all invited to join us at the first-ever patriotic sing-along beginning at 7 p.m.
"that means clouds building into the afternoon and then clearing out overnight," added colton.
urban agriculture programs support residents and communities with urban  forestry, home and public landscape, pest and disease control, lawn waste  management, farmers' markets, and developing skilled master gardeners - community and economic development - assists local governments  investigate and create viable options for economic and community development  such as improved job creation and retention, small and medium sized business  development, effective and coordinated homeland defense and emergency response,  solid waste disposal, tourism development, workforce education, and land use  planning - family and consumer sciences - helps families and communities become more  resilient and healthy by teaching nutrition, obesity prevention, food  preparation skills, positive child care, family communication, financial  management, and health care strategies - leadership development -trains extension professionals and volunteers to  deliver programs in gardening, health and safety, family and consumer issues,  4-h youth development, and prepares citizens to serve in leadership roles in  the community - natural resources - teaches landowners and homeowners how to use natural  resources more wisely and protect the environment with educational programs in  water quality and water conservation, timber management, composting, and  recycling.
revisiting last month's decision by the planning commission satisfies a request made last week by bill steele, county administrator, suggesting the basis for the recommendation be clearly expressed in written "minority and majority reports."
"i found something for you; i want you to check it out before i buy it."
converting hydrogen to helium and heavier elements, releasing enormous amounts  of energy in the process.
donations we are most thankful for donations of materials from carolyn johnson,  catherine baughman, susan grimshaw, margaret and jim wilson, katherine frisbee,  steve costa and patty brown.
space is limited and the event will be canceled if bad  weather prohibits a safe climb to the great house pueblo at the top of chimney  rock archaeological area to view the moonrise.
how did they live on such a high  pinnacle?
next, you may want to take a closer peek at the quilt top displayed on the  back wall of our schoolroom.
"this committee is not going to be deciding any of these details," responded chacey.
at the bottom the fine spray sparkles like diamond mist.
"the majority are in the range of about 11-13 inches," said cano.
r. mason, formerly of victor, colorado.
a few of the trout released during last summer's project were huge, but more than one of the rainbows planted last week are the type of fish most anglers see only in their dreams.
for the first three miles in, until you reach the waterfalls, it's as  well traveled as most roads in the county.
psac is dedicated to serving local artists and providing workshops and exhibits to benefit the community.
mesa honors four pagosa springs students have been named to the spring semester dean's  list at mesa state college in grand junction.
i've gone about half a mile beyond the fall creek waterfall, and it's taken almost an hour, when i reach the first crossing of fourmile creek.
drinks will be provided by the community center.
after a brief pause, archuleta county's plan to pursue the revision of current land use regulations and the development of new policies is moving once more.
they  were allowed to perform only jewish playrights and composers.
this year we will host the fireworks at the high school sports complex.
the parade will take place saturday, july 3, and the concert and fireworks will be held at the sports complex downtown this year sunday, july 4, with lots of related activities and events.
in both cases the men were killed because they were americans.
"it's invaluable for our kids to get to shoot, to just have to worry about archery for a day instead of archery and seven other events," kraetsch said.
league dues are $25 for  the season, payable in the pro shop.
the attitude they bring is to make things like they are in wherever, usa; they would not want us to come there and impose our ideas on them.
i'm getting enough of a high just having come this far.
grandfather comes out of the house and is very angry when he sees peter in the meadow.
call the gallery in town park at 264-5020 or doris green at 264-6904.
how about dorothy and larry?
i be grillin' while you be chillin'.
this was 7,247 years ago.
meanwhile, hunters come out of the woods, shooting their guns as they approach.
for more information, visit the web at www.wildlife.state.co.us public meetings set to deal with coalbed methane draft eis
rotary respectfully requests that water guns and air horns stay at home and  that parade participants not throw candy or anything at all from the floats.
the folks at la plata electric have been helping us for years now with these blasted flags of ours with never a word of complaint, and i want to thank them for being such incredibly good and generous friends.
with the "bean cooker" i can  amp up the fare considerably.
awards are determined based on the number of entries in a class.
before the spraying began, 211 people in fort collins and its immediate vicinity had contracted the potentially fatal virus.
i've got a lot  of hair growing in a lot of places you know.
since then ponderosa tru value and ponderosa  do-it-best offered consumers a full variety of building materials supplies for  contractors and home builders alike, outdoor goods, lawn and garden products,  sporting goods, home improvement supplies, crafts items, housewares and much  more with a lumber yard, store space, and lawn and garden center.
summer vacations are ending  and the fall routine is about to begin.
"i definitely think it's a great opportunity for organizations to recognize those people who support or volunteer for them," said cheryl bezio-gorham, chair of national philanthropy day.
monday-friday, july 12-15, 2-4 p.m. and monday-friday, july 26-30, 2-4 p.m. and monday-friday, aug. 2-6, from 2-4 p.m. choose which week works best for you.
"spirit walker - poems by nancy wood, and paintings by frank  howell," speaks eloquently of the courage, determination and powerful  spiritual faith of native americans.
our success was due in large part to our volunteer walkers and volunteer donors.
more than 90 percent of va's  medical centers also provide noninstitutional long-term for more information visit www.va.gov/vetevent/gag/2004.
it is an inspirational collection of art and poetry.
while a few can be rehabilitated, many young animals will bond with human rehabilitators or other animals that are being rehabilitated.
burial followed in hilltop cemetery.
you will also  enjoy contests of all kinds, food and lots and lots of fun.
habitat destruction, poor water quality, drought, and human activities such as gold mining have also taken a toll on the speckled fish with crimson neck markings.
even a plain old rodent or two.
taneesha is screaming at chauncey as he runs across a dark parking lot, a camera crew in hot pursuit.
in other construction-related updates, campbell revealed the district's year-to-date total for completed water connections stands at 51.
the subject of her work varies from realistic and abstract landscapes to placing the figure in an environment.
team member casey crow pulled a hamstring in the last regular season meet and was unable to participate at state but showed her team spirit by marching in with the team and staying on the sidelines for moral support during the entire competition.
hoyle is survived by his wife, jane hafely; sisters lois buchanan and twila  whitmore; son, lee; daughters sherry, shelley and lynn; stepchildren gayle, ed,  zoe, janey and candy; 14 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren; numerous  nieces and nephews.
- friday, july 2 - full moon program.
anderson was a bachelor at the time and as such was not required to live continuously on the land to prove up his claim, as were married men.
still, he said, safety is always a priority, and the range is safety certified and insured by the national field archery association.
competing saturday in eagles state competition in colorado springs against 11 teams with 244 total gymnasts, pagosa's entry came home with the second-place trophy and ray's first-place individual medal.
grandfather comes out of the house and is very angry when he sees peter in  the meadow.
"we want everyone to enjoy the music and performances in a casual,  picnic-like setting," said lisa scott, who is cochairing the family  festivo activities along with claudia rosenbaum.
aug. 12 - photo club, 5:30 p.m. aug. 11-13 - basics ii, denny and ginnie watercolor workshop aug. 15 - home and garden tour, noon-5 p.m.
competition begins every wednesday at 1 p.m. sign up in the men's locker room before 5 p.m. the tuesday afternoon before each play day.
i know for certain that he is the best person for the job," said george.
the national cooperative extension system today is as critical to the  future success of america in the 21st century as it was in the 20th century due  to the increased diversity and complexity of the issues people encounter today.
the other is a "whisker," a red or yellow marker thrown on the ground.
this next phase of higher learning involves the broader university-academic and clinical faculty, students, extension faculty and staff, and university leaders-in improving current and forming new mutually beneficial learning partnerships with residents and community leaders.
also included is the concept of planning districts and "overlay zones," areas that take scenic and wildlife corridors, floodplains, etc. into special consideration without completely restricting development.
monday-friday, july 12-15, 10 a.m.-noon.
"we know everyone who comes will enjoy this concert  and the characters in the story.
we discourage this and  often have to discard the material.
i want to buy it and give it to you as  your father's day present.
the club, made up of about 46 members from all around pagosa country, sponsors tuesday practice shoots yearround and monthly competition shoots during spring and summer.
others, including baker, argued making the survey too basic could defeat the purpose because "the answers to the survey are going into the development code."
" "i thought you wanted me to pick a color for the chairs and the umbrella.
events at the games are open to all u.s. military veterans age 55 or older  who are receiving care at any va medical facility.
owning a cat is a long-term commitment and therefore deserves serious thought.
joining long-term co-sponsors va and the veterans of foreign wars for the first time as a co-sponsor is veterans canteen service (vcs).
she was preceded in death by her husband, lawrence; brother, clarence fullen; and granddaughter, jennifer lynn richie.
he had no camping equipment, no gps, no compass.
" "so, you're ready to spend three hundred dollars to have a  cookout?
the point is simple: we must find strength in what we have in common and not allow small-minded partisanship to weaken us in the face of great danger.
"west nile virus poses a serious threat to the public health and communities need to be prepared," says allen james, president of rise (responsible industry for a sound environment), an association of suppliers that promotes the safe and responsible use of pest control products including mosquito control products used in and around homes, businesses and public areas.
in more recent years ms. van antwerp, a history teacher and quilter,  rescued it.
the one with  your name on it.
natural and chemical controls.
"being active helps you both physically and emotionally."
the long-term goal is to maintain current populations and establish new ones, and to ensure that the colorado river cutthroat trout as a subspecies remains in good condition," brauch said.
the scene: hospice memorial garden between the chamber of commerce and the river - a plot that is to be expanded in the near future because its tiny beginning, now four years past, has proved foresight was too small and more ground is needed.
the reality is salaries will still be low and not all the people who want to work will be able to work "up there."
"it saved my life," he said.
youth baseball our youth baseball season is coming to an end with our final week of competition.
what a fun group of folks we are now serving in the  southwest corner of the county.
the event begins with a gala opening ceremony at 7 p.m. on sunday, july 18,  in the exhibit hall of the convention center.
regional winners advance to the sate championships and will get to see a  rockies game.
it is a companion to the ever-popular family festivo  event that has been held for several years in durango.
when the greenback conservation program began in 1973, the state could claim only two naturally occurring populations of the subspecies.
admission to the show is $2 for adults and $1 for youth ages 10-18.
other lists of weekly winners are posted at the library.
music is a precious art form that has special powers.
women writers of the west -for more than a hundred years, the west has been somewhere that strong, independent women - who didn't fit in elsewhere - could make a place for themselves.
walter married the sister.
you've seen this episode of cheaters ten times if you've seen it once.
spontaneous combustion could also be the cause, he said.
complete copies of the resolution are available at the district office, 100 lyn avenue.
or, perhaps you will advance to the  head of the class as you try to assemble a heritage quilt block puzzle.
robinson returned to the scene with a wildland engine and doused three hot spots that had flared into flames again, remaining on scene until 7 a.m.
raesha ray, pagosa's upper level optional gymnast, placed second in the  all-around for children 13 and younger with a 34.90.
i am covered with grease and a load of overcooked burgers and bratwursts.
several property owners from the alpha subdivision, just south of the proposed development, spoke against any effort to connect new development with roads maintained under their metro district.
donations may also be designated for your favorite mission or gideons.
there will be antique sewing machines, irons, an ironing board and a quilt rack that is over 100 years more.
in some ways, the polarization goes back to the nixon years, perhaps to the mccarthy era, and each side in an increasingly cartoonish political game contributes.
children 9 and under will be admitted at no charge.
this class is suitable for beginners to professionals.
"summer is the time when we enjoy outdoor sports with friends and families, but a lightning strike can turn fun to tragedy in an instant." hunter is featured on a safety poster designed for schools, stadiums, sporting goods stores, and other outdoor venues with the message: "when you hear thunder, get indoors.
sing-along sheets will be provided to all as the audience joins in singing  familiar patriotic music.
every once in a while, some unthinking patrons will take it upon themselves  to offer editorial thoughts about the content of a book.
brad is happy to bring you reliable and affordable  service with integrity.
the blows against us will continue and we can ill afford to add to the damage by buying into a false view of america, of an america of extremes locked in irremediable conflict.
competition begins every wednesday at 1  p.m. sign up in the men's locker room before 5 p.m. the tuesday afternoon  before each play day.
the dogs were polite and stuck to the trail, until they saw a rabbit and took off after it.
a wagon box transferred to the sleigh and filled with straw and plenty of warm quilts made a snug carry-all for family and friends.
fee is $195 for the four-day workshop and includes all materials, firing, and an archaeological site tour.
"i graduated from stanley high school and attended louisiana tech university."
"the main goal for stocking this size of rainbow trout is purely recreational; we want people to catch these fish," said japhet.
do you  realize how many people we owe?
the dog is leaping into the debris in a frantic search for  sausages.
a provisional ballot is a regular ballot but is placed in a larger envelope and requires the voter to fill in information and mark a reason why the provisional ballot is being requested.
" among other aspects, said van patter, the review included traditional zoning, performance-based zoning and urban and rural districts, as well as public meetings in chromo and arboles.
with tax, we're looking at a little over three thousand, not bad, huh?" "what about the apron.
people trying to help lone young animals can put wildlife at risk by randy hampton special to the sun whether it's the 17th fairway at tiara rado golf course in grand junction or the remote reaches of douglas pass, young wildlife is often left alone so the mother can take care of personal business.
sports pagesports page pagosa gymnasts second in state
small plaques nearby point out which business sponsored their purchase.
tamra allen, town planner, said a cursory review of other communities in the state showed that several have ordinances on the books that require developers to save a certain percentages of older trees on their property, or to save trees of a certain size.
" "look at that old grill.
beer garden a beer garden will be set up on 5th street near the fields with some of your favorite cold beers.
perhaps you're operating under the philosophy that "it won't happen to me" or "it's not in my backyard.
ongoing workshops beginning watercolor with denny rose and virginia bartlett, every monday  and wednesday 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m., at the fairfield activities center.
you will learn to use the right side of your brain where your creative side dwells.
andrea combines  her passion for making miniatures with her writing skills.
the open category will be for variations on the theme such as vegetarian and the many diversions from the standards such as texas or cincinnati chili, to name a few.
next, you may want to take a closer peek at the quilt top displayed on the back wall of our schoolroom.
welcome to  the only art class that will not encourage you to make your artwork look like  the subject.
do you realize how many times they've had us over and all you do is put off an invitation.
join us  to learn how these solar events were observed at chimney rock archaeological  area.
the parade will be held saturday, july 3, beginning at 10 a.m. with line-up assignments, late registration and any final decorating taking place in the high school parking lot beginning at 9 a.m. and the parade will begin promptly at 10 a.m. with entry onto u.s. 160 from 8th street.
the object of this workshop is to create emotionally expressive  painting and collage.
the team is currently third in the eight-team league and will host the next  match july 22 at pagosa springs golf club.
the closest i got to chile was my mother's version with beans, meat and sauce.
only part of the moon is expected to be seen at this viewing.
while colorado currently has enough greenback cutthroat trout to meet its recovery goal, wildlife officials acknowledge that a prolonged drought has had a negative impact on some populations and fish have been rescued from rapidly drying streams.
look at chauncey's body language.
there's teal, salmon, sunflower and buff.
but she kept her pace until hospice had to serve her and her family near the end.
on the fourth of july there will be a special supernova sunrise program  marking the 950th anniversary of the appearance of the crab nebula supernova.
as a unique achievement in  american education, the cooperative extension system continues its longstanding  tradition of fulfilling that need by extending the university to the people to  improve the quality of life for individuals, families, business and nonprofit  organizations, and communities.
tickets are $10 - fourth of july - special sunrise program.
puebloan pottery workshop set greg wood will offer a pottery workshop july 20-23 at chimney rock  archaeological area, a remote chacoan "outlier" complex just west of  pagosa springs.
community summit initiative meeting set here july 9 an informational and organization meeting has been scheduled to provide data on a possible community summit initiative for archuleta county.
this work suspension affects repaving and road reconstruction efforts at treasure falls only, not the other two projects currently underway on wolf creek pass.
several new folks joined us and we look forward to seeing them at the center; we also welcomed back several snow birds.
we are pleased to have beverly arrendell's son bring his choir group to sing at the center june 29 after lunch.
the creation of the crab nebula was one of several events in the sky over  and around chimney rock in the years 900 to 1200 a.d.
hard copies are available upon request, but are very costly to produce.
hotshot and i camped here once with  the scouts, over 15 years ago.
i've already got a list of people we need to invite.
monday-friday, july 12-15, 1-3 p.m. and monday-friday, aug. 2-6, 1-3 p.m. art history -
drinks will be  provided by the community center.
bring applications to the practice june 29 at the arena.
r.c. and ruth moved to delhi in 1944 and raised a family of three boys, roddy, arby and toby.
it happened again saturday, an annual rite of reviving the spirit by planting something in memory of a friend or loved one who has passed us by to set the stage for reunion in eternity.
then, the slab is off the grill and on to a plate on the side wing of the grill to rest a few minutes.
this will be a combination sundowner and fund-raiser for psac.
the parade will be held saturday, july 3, beginning at 10 a.m. with line-up  assignments, late registration and any final decorating taking place in the  high school parking lot beginning at 9 a.m. and the parade will begin promptly  at 10 a.m. with entry onto u.s. 160 from 8th street.
goldsmith describes the mahler musical version of "being borne upward  through struggle" as: "š a wondrous clangor of open chords sounded by the strings,  winds and brass of the orchestra, undergirded by the rumbling strength of the  organ and augmented by crashing percussion and pealing bells.
june is flying by, but we will remember our june birthday babies on the  25th when we serve lunch.
(a nebula is briefly defined as any of many vast cloud-like masses of gas or dust among the stars.)
if you would like to participate, are  interested in camping or have any questions about the rendezvous, please call  billy hawkins at (970) 247-8149.
with 28 competitors, winning a skin  is a very difficult thing to do.
cruising with crusecruising with cruse
by mercy korsgren special to the preview the communitywide prelude to local fourth of july celebrations will be the  community patriotic sing-along at the community center 7 p.m. tuesday, june 29.
the centerpiece of our bulletin board is a patriotic wall hanging of beautifully hand-quilted "redwork."
veterans gustafson, robert dobbins, ernie garcia and ed dailey will present a parade of colors.
many eligible for drug credit are you on medicare?
show patriotism lets all show our community and national patriotism by turning out for this  fun-filled evening of song, music and flag waving.
meanwhile, winners have been announced in the center's 28th annual juried exhibit and award winners will remain on view in the center through june 30.
the fund-raiser will consist of a live art auction and silent auction with  a low reserve payable to the artist.
monday-friday, july 12-15, 2-4 p.m. and monday-friday, july 26-30, 2-4 p.m. and  monday-friday, aug. 2-6, from 2-4 p.m. choose which week works best for you.
cost is 50 cents to register and the applications forms are available at the humane society thrift store and the shelter.
we begin by freeing you from the fear of failure so that you can unleash your true creative skills.
"she was a great performer  for us all season and had it not been for a season-ending injury to a teammate,  we might have been even stronger."
then i had to turn the gas on and reach down inside with a kitchen match to light the burner.
she discovered the important story about it by interviewing elder family members.
for additional information and to make reservations, e-mail davejackman@earthlink.net.
it could be a sad occasion but the spirit of pagosans refuses to let it happen.
durango va clinic the durango va outpatient clinic is at 400 south camino del rio, suite g, durango, co 81301.
" "that's sweet, but i'm not your father.
johnson is the second american taken hostage then brutally executed.
after spraying, only 17 cases were reported in the area through the remainder of the season.
in other business, the commission also recommended approval on a final plat for the riverwalk townhomes, a development of five townhomes on south 6th street.
rich kolecki, colorado's hatchery chief, who oversees 20 facilities in the statewide system, said securing sufficient cutthroat populations in state hatcheries to stock lakes and streams is vital to recovery efforts.
despite the political battles at home, we must find common ground and fight our greater battles together.
however, congress' appropriations to pilt have failed to meet those authorization levels in the years since, a fact that mcinnis' bill sets out to change.
the art of basketry - create your own basket as you learn the history and  technique of basketry from a number of different cultures, including navajo,  zuni, and others.
puebloan pottery workshop set greg wood will offer a pottery workshop july 20-23 at chimney rock archaeological area, a remote chacoan "outlier" complex just west of pagosa springs.
native women shaped the west through  the arts - weaving stories, songs, painting, rugs, and their lives together.
the gout excuse has lost its power; you have nowhere left to hide, big boy.
hosted by va's central  california health care system, the games have competition in swimming,  bicycling, horseshoes, bowling, croquet and a pentathlon (softball hit, discus,  shot put, basketball free throw and air guns).
anyone who has ever attended the games and seen the esprit de corps among the veterans knows this event is an important part of their lives."
"but it's not just hunters who come and shoot," she said.
did you know that pioneer women stitched quilt blocks as they walked hundreds of miles to their new homes in the west?
with your new grill, you can take that first, important step toward redeeming yourself.
finding the packing slips is my tongue-and-cheek pet peeve about the job."
monday - thursday, july 19-22, 3-5 p.m. introduction to black and white photography - this seven-week course will  help you develop an eye for black and white subjects, shooting techniques, and  focusing on tonality and texture, in a world full of color.
it's a special day, one filled with activities 8 a.m.-2 p.m.
"i have a husband who i have been married to for almost 37 years.
(parental discretion is advised).
the  destination for most people is the fall creek one, which comes in on your left.
then i had to turn the gas on and  reach down inside with a kitchen match to light the burner.
this used to be the central stock driveway, and in the old days  thousands of pointy little sheep feet went up and down it each summer.
a final suggestion from robbins to "dumb down the survey" in order to improve understanding received mixed reviews.
the story peter is a little boy (a girl or boy may play this part) who lives in  russia on the edges of a meadow with his grandfather.
call the recreation department 264-4151, ext.
you will move to the head of the class when  you try out our trivia quiz, preview our library display, make a pretend quilt,  or study a little quilt history.
chamber news to kick off july 4 celebration by sally hamiester sun columnist the communitywide prelude to our local july 4 celebrations will take place  next tuesday evening, june 29, at the community center, and you are all invited  to join us at the first-ever patriotic sing-along beginning at 7 p.m.
if a piece of property is going to be developed, i doubt leaving all those trees is going to be part of the plan."
festivities include a musical  salute to veterans by singer lee greenwood, a color guard, a parade of flags  from each participating state and a ceremonial lighting of the torch.
for more information visit us on the web at www.humanesociety ofpagosasprings.org or call us at 731-4771.
" "i have no idea what that is, and š" "a t-shirt commemorating what i consider to be the consistently best  junior a hockey program in all of manitoba, though fans in flin flon would  disagree in typically violent fashion.
senior center staff can help residents select drug card pagosa springs residents on medicare can save money on prescriptions with the new medicare-approved drug cards, but confusion is keeping some consumers from signing up.
strickland was wearing a seat belt and airbags did deploy.
"take the strip along the south side of u.s. 160 there.
ellen is survived by a brother, harold noel fullen of brownsville;  daughters catherine suzanne gerhards richie of pagosa springs and deborah ann  moore of natalia, texas; granddaughters melissa ermenio of las vegas, nev., and  kristie morales of dallas, texas; grandsons morris gentry richie jr. of  lubbock, texas, jeremy morales of colorado springs; and two  great-grandchildren, anthony ermenio and chelsey ermenio of las vegas.
obituaries ellen gerhards ellen lee gerhards of pagosa springs died in mercy medical center in  durango june 16, 2004.
"we are very careful about bringing live fish into our state hatcheries because of disease that the parent fish may carry, however, their eggs can be disinfected," kolecki said.
"but we are here and ready to help those who prefer local help and face-to-face assistance.
this is your last  chance to stop the train around before it jumps the tracks.
we'll probably never know.
from the early '20s to the late '70s, the songs of rodgers, with the lyrics  of lorenz hart and oscar hammerstein ii, not only reflected the societal and  musical mores of these decades, they also affected transformations of the  entire art form.
learn how quilters have  embraced technology.
i told my neighbor that i was hiking to the falls, not to the lake.
san juan river flow through town ranged from approximately 900 cubic feet per second to 400 cubic feet per second last week.
imagine how profound an experience it would be for even an amateur  astronomer to discover a new star in the sky.
aug. 16-21 - cynthia padilla botanical art workshop aug. 21 - third saturday workshop, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m.
through assignments, students will learn compositional elements and ansel adams' zone metering system.
to help the audience enjoy this experience even more, mischa  semanitzky will demonstrate the various instruments.
specifically, the resolution aims to "assure that water rights, supplied by new development and developments which expand the use previously allowed on the property or for which the district had planned to provide service, are adequate to meet the needs of the new or expanded use ..." a lighthearted yet relevant analogy supplied by gene tautges, assistant general manager for the district, further illustrates the intent.
cole added that people should not count on being able to use a cell phone because coverage is limited in the wilderness.
please note the time of the  event.
" "i figure we owe at least 20 people, to start.
cyndi mitchell real american dear editor: thanks for publishing the statements of ben nighthorse campbell &emdash; a real american &emdash; telling it "like it really is."
it is care for the person who is dying.
visitors, especially the children,  can experiment with color and design to make a "pretend" quilt at a  table adjacent to the old times schoolroom.
on top of me is a large gas grill, burners still aflame.
cost is $190 for psac members and $200 for nonmembers.
they continued to live in or  visit pagosa until the years caught up with them in 1999.
you will learn how to channel your emotions into a meaningful work of art that is fun, therapeutic and aesthetically pleasing.
peter tells his grandfather that he  is not afraid of wolves!
the mckeehans can be counted upon to arrive early and  leave late for every function to lend a helping hand and were honored a couple  of years ago as citizens of the year for their remarkable contributions to this  community through their participation in just about everything that happens in  pagosa.
they will practice tuesdays and fridays 4-6 p.m. practices are not mandatory.
but visit our old times  schoolroom where you will have fun while you test your knowledge or just  assemble a puzzle or organize a "pretend quilt."
lending authenticity to this schoolroom are antique school desks with some old school items your grandpa might remember.
also, the archaeoastronomy of chimney rock will be  explored.
the visitor's cabin is open 9 a.m.-4 p.m. daily.
performances of this full-scale musical production (with a cast of over 50  singers, dancers, and musicians) start at 7:30 p.m. in the pagosa springs high  school auditorium.
the performance will be the highlight when music in the mountains hosts a  free outdoor community concert called family festivo for children of all ages  in town park 11 a.m.-2 p.m. thursday, july 29.
"if we told people they can or cannot cut trees, i think that goes too far," he said.
this program is free to the public, and free flags provided by the chamber  of commerce and the community center will be given to all who attend.
the plpoa team, under the able "captainship" of steve elges,  raised over $1,700 and was awarded a certificate for top fund-raising  non-profit group.
psac is dedicated to serving local artists and providing workshops and  exhibits to benefit the community.
the accident occurred about 1 a.m. saturday.
burial was in faith memorial cemetery of delhi.
this interactive seminar will focus on the elements of descriptive,  nonfiction writing and will involve in-class exercises and weekly writing  assignments.
take your horses up the anderson trail, if you're  heading up to fourmile and turkey lakes for fishing or hunting.
don't miss viewing this exceptional piece of history and the fun activities at the education booth - old time school room at quilt fest 2004.
do you know if you are one of the 72,000 coloradans eligible for the new $600 drug credit?
come to the humane society and fill out a pre-adoption questionnaire during our adoption hours: 10 a.m.-5 p.m., monday through saturday and 10 a.m.-4 p.m., on sunday.
"because the person who brought the calf in was able to provide a very good description of the area where they found it, we opted to return the calf that same afternoon.
it's not that i am averse to grilling, but i've grown very comfy with stovetop and oven work.
"as it stands now, our locally elected officials are in a financial straightjacket, and only congress can provide them the relief they need."
this is 3d archery sponsored by the pagosa bow club.
specifically, they are looking for help with set-up tuesday, aug. 3, volunteers  to help with this four-day event and tear-down monday, aug, 9.
as was the case over a century ago, problems in most aspects of everyday living  are best resolved by citizens in local communities.
local veterans local veteran ron gustafson will do a special patriotic reading, and bruce  muirhead will lead the pledge of allegiance.
in an update regarding the dutton ditch encasement project, campbell indicated the army corps of engineers is currently reviewing the initiative to see what type of permit - either "nationwide" or "full-fledged" - the project will require.
as soon as we know actual costs, we can begin our final fund-raising drive.
commission chairman rice reavis said it is "an excellent idea."
various theories are presented to visitors on tours of the site.
" "a lot of people think if i deserve anything, it's a sound thrashing." "that's for sure, but you need a gift on father's day.
the analysis area encompasses 125,000 acres north of the southern ute indian reservation in la plata and archuleta counties.
if you took her class before, this workshop promises new experiences formulated specifically for this class.
you'll discover an enthusiasm you've forgotten.
the bird cleverly taunts the wolf, who snaps furiously at the bird.
all rentals and donations go toward offsetting costs of the pyrotechnics  display.
brown is working toward a bachelor of science degree in animal sciences at the abilene, texas school.
calendar today - annual meeting june 26 - bird house contest june 27 - writer's workshop with jerry hannah meets at noon.
about 3 a.m., flames were spotted by deputy ryan clark.
because here in the mountains you never know when a storm might come  up.
everyone will pass this test.
our renewals this week include curt cristensen, cpa; kristi nelson cohen with durango & silverton narrow gauge railroad; les mundall who joins as a realtor associate with jann c. pitcher real estate; kurt and danna laverty with l bar z cabins (name change); phillip r. mcclendon with mcclendon and lynch, cpas, llc and associate member and valued diplomat, jean sanft.
peter's grandfather has warned him not to go into the meadow alone because it is dangerous.
for answering my plea to put up one of our chamber flags again.
other communities require developers to mitigate the loss of trees through reforestation on another property or through replacement efforts.
the tiny pieces are made from simple, inexpensive materials, using a minimum of equipment and requiring no special skills.
" the silver foxes den senior center will also help consumers learn about some related programs that can save them money like the together rx drug discount card, medicare savings programs, and benefitscheckup of colorado.
awards will be presented in 10 categories: outstanding large business/corporation, outstanding small business/corporation, outstanding foundation, outstanding philanthropist, outstanding service organization, outstanding professional in philanthropy, outstanding volunteer, outstanding volunteer fund-raiser, outstanding youth and outstanding youth group.
while i was in arboles preparing for the grand opening they stole the can that i draw numbers from and replaced the numbers with fictitious ones.
she is a member of the national watercolor society and a signature member of both the mississippi watercolor society and the wisconsin watercolor society.
the  centerpiece of our bulletin board is a patriotic wall hanging of beautifully  hand-quilted "redwork."
she is sobbing, the  left strap of her flimsy tank top falling off her pudgy shoulder.
he said a replacement plan or requirement that the developer present a plan for tree removal to the commission prior to cutting might work better than an ordinance saying trees couldn't be cut on personal property.
full moon programs at chimney rock begin near dusk, as you walk up to the great house pueblo.
"we also know that which card a consumer picks really makes a difference pricewise.
the public will have the opportunity to learn about and comment on the northern san juan basin coalbed methane draft environmental impact statement (eis) at public involvement meetings hosted by the bureau of land management and u.s. forest service this summer.
25 years ago taken from sun files of june 28, 1979 a new service club, rotary, will be officially started here tonight when the new rotary club receives its charter at a dinner at the pagosa lodge.
after the full moon has risen, you  will descend in its light, aided by our volunteer light brigade.
there will also be  quilts, quilts and more quilts.
for more information, call 264-5549.
peter  arrives and he has an idea: he brings a rope and climbs along a branch into the  tree.
rain gear, jacket and pants, no matter how bright and clear the sky is when i set out.
the planning commission recommended approval of the plan, on the condition that the developers receive approval from the colorado department of transportation on an access plan.
"our staff has been trained on these issues, and are receiving information and handout materials from medicare and the access to benefits coalition rx-colorado to get consumers the information they need to decide," said musetta wollenweber, silver foxes den senior center director.
my daughter and son-in-law and two grandchildren live here in pagosa and i have another son who lives in florida.
smaller sleighs were used for speed or when you wanted to be alone with that special girl.
any district members who would like to file as a candidate for the position can obtain a petition from either the pagosa springs or durango offices.
economics, schmeconomics.
these early four corners inhabitants left images that may represent this  new star.
retired arizona physician rescued on coal creek trail by gary grazda special to the sun a 73-year-old arizona man was rescued friday, june 18, after seven hours alone in the forest with little water and no food.
did they influence the  settlement and importance of the site?
"these games provide inspiration to countless americans who seek to live a healthy and active life."
and then i come to a huge tree across the trail.
monday-friday, july 12-16, from 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m., with a full day field trip thursday, july 15.
opening day was thursday, june 17, and the smell of good food, the sounds  of laughter and music, and balloons filled the air.
as long as these two forces are in balance, the star neither expands nor collapses, and thus remains stable.
psac annual meeting the pagosa springs arts council invites you to join them 5-7 p.m. today at jj's upstream restaurant for their annual meeting and social event of the season.
so, i challenge all of our archuleta county veterans to attend.
some critics claim it is unnecessary to spray pesticides to prevent the spread of west nile virus.
don and mary mckeehan have individually served a number of years on this board as both directors and president and have collectively supported virtually every chamber event from the beginning of time.
dawnie silva, kitchen director, and her staff cooked up and served lasagna  and all the trimmings.
sports page pagosa gymnasts second in state by richard walter staff writer second place.
mr. williams was born aug. 29, 1912.
the annual meeting will be held in bayfield high school with 9 a.m. registration, a 10:30 business meeting and then lunch for all members in attendance.
" "the deck is ready to collapse.
the fire has backed down to within 50 yards of the middle fork of the piedra river.
legacieslegacies 90 years ago taken from pagosa springs new era files of june 26, 1914 fishing in the archuleta county streams is just now becoming good with the receding of the high and muddy waters.
a shelter staffer will advise seniors about the background information on any animal they are interested in.
the best of americans do not exist in the oxygen-deprived  extremes.
rockies challenge the colorado rockies baseball skills challenge will take place 5 p.m.  friday, june 25, at the sports complex on the campus of pagosa springs high  school.
and you had to spend the night, you'd want to be prepared.
the chimney rock archeological area will sponsor an educational booth july 2-4 at the pagosa springs arts and crafts festival, in town park.
what do you see?" "besides the rotting boards and the section of deck that seems ready to collapse at any moment?
for more information on district events, updates and operations, visit the district web site at www.pawsd.org.
i got a bid on the deck and i think we can do it for about two grand.
she dropped it, only to pick it up again when her stepson showed an interest many years ago.
auditions set for youth roles in 'peter and the wolf' by carole howard special to the preview auditions will take place in the high school choir room 6-8 p.m. monday,  june 28, for boys and girls 10-12 who would like to play one of the eight to  ten characters in "peter and the wolf" next month.
for example,  you might want to show your animal swimming, flying, lying down, getting up,  eating, chewing, pouncing or crawling.
i mean, to start it i had to take the racks out, then remove the shelf with the greasy lava rocks.
amy rosner, ph.d. is a psychology of art teacher,  visual attention researcher and lifetime artist.
deeney made a trip to the top of douglas pass recently to return a calf elk that had been carried into the division's grand junction regional service center.
"we don't have a black mark yet, because we haven't written it yet."
in this course you will discuss art history, the elements of  art and principles of design, various media, and art interpretation.
and then your  attention becomes focused on the rocks at your feet.
offering a legal perspective, "performance-based zoning is a great deal more subjective," said jeff robbins, county attorney.
adults, teens, and children are welcome to sit and "play" with  the quilt activities that teach about the art and craft of quilting.
our sincere and heartfelt thanks go out once again to mike alley at laplata
i told my neighbor that i was hiking to the falls, not to the  lake.
queen contestants must be 15-21 years old and princess hopefuls between 8 and 15.
browse through our collection.
r.c. and ruth's family  expanded to include 16 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
a knife and flashlight and an extra bit of rope.
a star is essentially a gigantic hydrogen bomb - a fusion explosion
"the veterans who participate in the games send a clear message that exercise, fitness and a competitive spirit can help to defy the negative effects of age, injury or illness," said edward s. banas sr., commander-in-chief of the veterans of foreign wars.
"it saved my life," he  said.
secretary of state donetta davidson said, "voters have unplugged from the election process because of what happened in the 2000 presidential election.
mahler had cited a german poem called "resurrection" as his inspiration for this second symphony of his: " when the earth is silent and deserted only the long-drawn note of the bird of death soft and simple the words gently build up: you will rise again, my dust, after a short rest.
the exhibit consists of recent artwork created especially for the council.
it was also one of the last targets the shooters encountered before the short walk back to base, tired, dusty and ready for more.
the water plummets about 300 feet down the steep cliff.
preregistration for  all courses is required.
i paid, they helped.
she moved from canyon lake, texas, in  1994 to make her home in pagosa springs.
donations we are most thankful for donations of materials from carolyn johnson, catherine baughman, susan grimshaw, margaret and jim wilson, katherine frisbee, steve costa and patty brown.
educating the public about prevention measures 2.
although most are veterans of world war ii and the korean war,  increasing numbers of vietnam-era veterans are participating in this annual  nationwide competition.
colorado met its state delisting goal when it achieved 10 populations of rio grande cutthroat in 1985.
one is a set of stakes.
entry forms must be received  no later than aug. 2.
i sit beside the  creek and eat my lunch.
small business economic injury loan deadline looms businesses in archuleta and six other southern colorado counties have until july 21 to file applications for low-interest disaster loans from the u.s. small business administration.
don't miss out on this easy-to-apply-for drug help.
the bird flies around the pond where the duck swims, and they argue who is better - the one who can fly or the one who can swim.
mrs. william mccomas said she jumped over that dashboard on purpose last sunday in ignacio; bill says she grabbed the lines and was pulled over; but the driver thinks she wanted to ride one of the horses but they saw her coming first.
for years dr. weston at riverside was the only doctor who came to elco.
on the move this year, the mosquito-borne virus is continuing its westward trek across the country.
the author, martin goldsmith, is a radio musicologist who is writing about his parents, gunther, a flutist, and his mother, rosemary, a violinist who played in the nazi's kulturbund orchestra.
moreover, i probably don't deserve anything.
something like 'king of the grill' or 'i be grillin' while you be chillin'.
" "therapy?" "well, again, that's something that could be of great value, although  it's a bit late in the game.
as a fund-raiser, 4-h will provide food for the day and as part of their projects will bring a draft goat and a fiber goat - the former will provide rides for the little ones and the latter lots of fun petting.
the fish, which are certified as whirling-disease free, are transported from cline trout farms in monte vista.
free flags provided by the chamber of commerce will be given to all who attend.
2004 rendezvous the brotherhood of free trappers will host the 2004 pagosa springs rendezvous beginning today and continuing through june 27, 8 a.m.-6 p.m. daily on reservoir hill.
our first new member this week is joanne long who brings us the ancient wisdom healing center and ageless beauty at 145 south second st. providing much more than just pampering, this center offers a sanctuary guided by ancient wisdom.
but as the children build new sand castles we build new lives, each based on the lessons learned and the guidance given.
i sit beside the creek and eat my lunch.
please read the newsletter closely when you get your copy.
some people like this kind of thing; they scamper over the rocks like big  horn sheep.
the final party will be at the south pagosa park on 8th street wednesday, july 7.
brauch said another goal for colorado is to manage the recovery effort in a way that provides angling opportunities for fishermen.
the law has changed in the last couple of years in an attempt to make obtaining judges easier, she said.
and to have our cookout.
alley pointed out that to the oppressed people in every land the star-spangled banner has become the symbol of human freedom.
national veterans golden age games set in july from the east coast to the west, more than 500 "golden age"  veterans will gather in fresno, calif., in july for the nation's largest  sporting event for senior military veterans.
there was much overlapping and much trouble.
the moon will begin to be visible between the rocks.
she moved from canyon lake, texas, in 1994 to make her home in pagosa springs.
like the full set of girls gone wild dvds or a roulette bet the  next time we go to vegas?" "the apron will have a cute saying printed on it.
given time, you  will also read about the "soiled doves" and painted ladies of the  dusty cowboys and wild mountain miners and how they lived through their first  fortunes and hard times.
we're  grateful to lyn delange, owner of the pagosa springs welcoming service for  recruiting joanne and will cheerfully send lyn a free sundowner pass for her  efforts with our thanks.
"it was easy to see how someone can think about taking the animal," said yamashita, "but, undoubtedly, the mother was nearby and would return when golf course traffic died down.
the categories for chile this year will be red, green and a special open  category.
for updates on federal fire restrictions, call the pagosa ranger district office at 264-2268.
"we are attempting to secure these three native trout subspecies so they can continue to form part of our aquatic wildlife heritage.
in a journey of 18.61 years, the moon travels the horizon from south to north, pauses for several years, then returns to the southern end of the cycle.
a new grill will open culinary doors for you.
also, the archaeoastronomy of chimney rock will be explored.
coloradans have more than 40 medicare-approved drug card choices, but can choose only one of the cards.
thank you all  for your memberships.
festivities include a musical salute to veterans by singer lee greenwood, a color guard, a parade of flags from each participating state and a ceremonial lighting of the torch.
once the notes are out, we will catalog the travel guide - it is an eyewitness  guide that shows what others only tell you.
"it allowed us to design an ingress and an egress for the property," he said.
the subject of her work varies from realistic and abstract landscapes to  placing the figure in an environment.
space is limited and the event will be canceled if bad weather prohibits a safe climb to the great house pueblo at the top of chimney rock archaeological area to view the moonrise.
do you know the components of a quilt?
i also enjoy meeting the people of pagosa.
mark is vice president at citizens and offers all areas of commercial loans including business loans, new construction, land loans and permanents.
we are pleased to have beverly arrendell's son bring his choir group to  sing at the center june 29 after lunch.
bird's eye maple and period drawer pulls accent the curved drawer front.
july 15 - photo club meets 6:30 p.m. at community center july 15-31 - batik and screamers papier maché workshop july 27 - psac board meeting, 5 p.m. aug. 5-31 - watercolor exhibit with denny rose, ginnie bartlett and watercolor students aug. 11 - watercolor club, 9:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m.
writing in books it is considered a sin to write in library books.
the six-step finishing process, gives the  piece an "aged" appearance fitting its traditional design.
she said the election judges "are an intricate part of our election process and those who serve are an extremely important factor in upholding the integrity of the elections.
pagosa is pagosa, with all its quaintness, its beautiful scenery, its challenges and its way of doing things.
there are some small waterlogged tree trunks laying across the fast-moving stream and i don't like the look of them.
we are honored to  display a quilt top which was hand -pieced with a purpose more than 150 years  ago.
walter was said to be fond of fine horses and owned an especially fine team of high stepping bays named ribbon and swimmer.
scenery could be changing on the west side of town
dawnie silva, kitchen director, and her staff cooked up and served lasagna and all the trimmings.
youth baseball our youth baseball season is coming to an end with our final week of  competition.
after the full moon has risen, you will descend in its light, aided by our volunteer light brigade.
join us to find out these facts and more as chimney rock interpretive association presents a full moon rise program.
a study of more than 2,500 residents of beijing, china found that osteoarthritis was more common in the hands used to operate chopsticks - and in the fingers specifically stressed by chopstick use (the thumb and the second and third joints on the first and third fingers).
you've got the dialogue  memorized.
for the second consecutive year, the "pagosa quality fishing project," a stocking program made possible by entirely private donations, is upping the odds local and visiting anglers alike will meet with success along the shores of the san juan.
i refuse to succumb to mundane grill fare - burgers, dried-out steaks, etc.
just what, exactly, is a supernova?
there it sits, a snazzy three-burner with porcelain-coated racks and a  nifty little gas ring on the side that charlie's friend calls a "bean  cooker."
"i was the assistant director of human resources at bossier community  college."
certainly, that's part of what we are trying to maintain," he said.
calendar june 26 - bird house contest june 27 - writer's workshop with jerry hannah meets at noon.
this integration of teaching, research, and public service enables the  cooperative extension system to respond to critical, emerging issues with  research-based information.
a few spaces for vendors of pet related products are still available.
he is the originator and  conductor of the music in the mountains symphony orchestra, 15 of whom will  play for us at this concert.
this symphony of mahler's was new  to both and was a great inspiration to all the musicians in rehearsal.
" "liposuction?" "well, true, you've needed that for a very long time.
engagements craigen david gustafson, kevin and rebecca neel, and don and pat craigen announce  the engagement of their children, bethina gustafson and jarrett craigen.
weatherweather date high low precipdate high low precip 6/16 80 36 - - - 6/17 77 38 - - - 6/18 78 40 - - - 6/19 79 40 - - - 6/20 79 37 - - - 6/21 77 36 - - - 6/22 73 45 pagosa forecast predicts 'more of the same' by tom carosello staff writer "more of the same" is the forecast outlook for pagosa country through the coming week.
you will be able to view the hand stitching that  connects the pieces that make a block.
stop by  our booth and learn more about chimney rock, its programs and volunteer  opportunities.
the table and chairs and umbrella are ready to bring home too.
second, i'll use a credit card.
how will that benefit our townspeople?
there will be a visiting youth choir from the first united methodist church  in arlington, texas, on the program.
"the condition of the colorado river and rio grande cutthroats is such that the trout's status and our accomplishments have precluded any need to have them protected by federal listing.
in addition to local talent, a visiting youth choir, testament, will sing  several patriotic medleys.
in this course, you will learn to evoke the essence of the natural world around us through compelling, imaginative, and expressive writing - both prose and poetry.
our schoolroom is an exceptional backdrop for some exceptional quilts.
refresh your soul and renew your spirit.
stretton brought home the state silver medal in vault with an 8.5 score.
come in and have lunch with  us if you have a birthday this month.
i said, "it would be nice if they  didn't chase the wildlife.
one, called "dancing on the ceiling," suggested that the singer imagined his or her lover was dancing every evening on his or her ceiling.
so come support the beer sales and support the fireworks show at the same time.
howell's paintings evoke the beauty and vitality of the  ancient culture.
the media bears as much blame as the  political strategists who spend their days creating more garish, more  outrageous characterizations of opponents.
partway up you get a different view of the falls and the u-shaped glacier-cut valley behind you.
or contact deann mcdaniel at (970) 325-4372 or diane larkin at (970) 325-9821.
no qi gong today; celebrate june birthdays, noon; free  movie day - "hidalgo," 1 p.m. monday, june 28 -11-1:00 medicare counseling, 11 a.m.-1 p.m.; bridge for  fun, 1 p.m.;
however, cat lovers swear by the ease and independence of caring for pets of the feline persuasion.
this is a sunrise program.
they were jim horky, alan leo and ray henslee.
lady golfers climb to third in league by lynne allison special to the sun pagosa women's golf association featured a low gross, low net format for  weekly league day june 15.
it is this public land that keeps us immune from the cult of economics that destroys wildlands and eviscerates rural landscapes in other places.
for example, prilosec 20 mg was priced as low as $106 and as high as $144 under the various drug cards.
the fire is burning mostly on the ground and is currently surrounded by upper elevation terrain on the north and by rock escarpments on the south.
according to the development's plans, they want to be a city unto themselves; why would the visitors or residents "up there" want to come down here?
the site has been declared a chacoan "outlier."
the coaches will be assisted by members of the  pirate varsity.
"if you feel the animal is injured, in danger, or truly abandoned, the best thing you can do is mark the spot, then call the dow," said will.
mesa honors four pagosa springs students have been named to the spring semester dean's list at mesa state college in grand junction.
the fund-raiser will consist of a live art auction and silent auction with a low reserve payable to the artist.
some contenders were bought off and others became discouraged and left.
it's on sale and there's only one left at the store.
it's beyond being an embarrassment; it's a hazard to health and home.
goldsmith writes that his parents were extremely thrilled and relieved to  finally get their passports to escape germany for america feb. 25, 1941, two  days before the performance of mahler's symphony, the "resurrection"  with the kuba, (as the orchestra was called).
we will also study the work of writers ranging from marco polo to captain cook to mark twain and such current authors as bill bryson, jan morris and sebastian junger.
from wall hangings, to antiques, to large quilts, there will be an enticing variety to see.
he had no food and very little water with him.
she told me a true story about her experience as a new restaurateur 14 years ago.
the winner must remove the catalog from the library premises by a certain  date, yet to be determined.
the rac-sponsored meetings will be: - wednesday, aug. 11, 6-9 p.m., bayfield high school cafetorium - tuesday, aug. 17, 6-9 p.m., archuleta county fairgrounds extension building, 344 u.s. 84, pagosa springs - thursday, aug. 19, 6-9 p.m., san juan public lands center, 15 burnett court, durango the draft eis studies a proposal by six energy companies to develop approximately 300 new coalbed methane wells on federal lands in the northern san juan basin of southwestern colorado.
our renewals this week include curt cristensen, cpa; kristi nelson cohen  with durango & silverton narrow gauge railroad; les mundall who joins as a  realtor associate with jann c. pitcher real estate; kurt and danna laverty with  l bar z cabins (name change); phillip r. mcclendon with mcclendon and lynch,  cpas, llc and associate member and valued diplomat, jean sanft.
a number of groups will be represented in the program, a prelude to the  community's fourth of july celebration.
the restrictions are stage 1 restrictions which mean: - campfires are limited to permanent fire rings or grates within developed campgrounds; - smoking is limited to vehicles, buildings, or 3-ft wide areas cleared of vegetation; - chain saws and other internal-combustion engines must have approved, working spark arresters; - acetylene and other torches with an open flame may not be used; and, - the use of explosives is prohibited.
the beer garden is sponsored by four corner folk festival, with some of the  proceeds coming back to the fireworks show.
volunteers 18 years and younger require parental consent, and young people  10-13 years of age must be accompanied by an adult.
lee sterling chile taste competition is aug. 5 by jim super special to the preview i had never tasted authentic mexican food until moving to the southwest 25 years ago.
concessions, which include picnic-type foods will be supplied by local  non-profit groups and a few private vendors.
despite the political battles at home, we must find common  ground and fight our greater battles together.
one such settler was walter anderson who rode horseback from cripple creek to take up land near bondad.
," was martin's reaction.
later, when the family moved to texas the quilt top was  packed away and mrs. dehart died before she could, if she ever intended to,  complete it.
the late stan haynes came to pagosa from granby in 1984 with his wife,  beverly, and son, mike, and started ponderosa hardware in downtown pagosa  springs.
the fire is also being mapped and monitored by daily helicopter flights originating from pagosa springs.
in lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to first baptist church for the  first fruits program which provides for various needs of families in archuleta  county.
as stated saturday, it is more than just home health care, "it is a philosophy of living while dying."
the teens explored different sound and musical venues from keyboard  accompaniment to jokes and even sound effects.
local groups and individuals include john  graves, pagosa springs pre-schoolers, a senior center barbershop quartet, paul  arrendell, father john bowe, and a trio of ladies: susie long, judy patton and  mary jo howell.
in 1987, the haynes acquired federal lumber at a site near the intersection  of u.s. 160 and piedra road.
they exist in the moderate center, in the rich heartland of  cooperative american ideas and ideals.
this strategic partnership of america's great public land grant universities and federal, state, and local governments enables the cooperative extension system to deliver critically needed educational programs at the grass roots level throughout the nation.
the fall equinox is that point of time half way between the summer and winter solstices.
dues are $20/single or $30/couple; singles without partners welcome.
the lee sterling chile taste is open to all who want to compete in this year's contest, but is limited to only 50 entries.
for the first three miles in, until you reach the waterfalls, it's as well traveled as most roads in the county.
one does not have to take an economics course to know the reality of living and working here.
this will be a combination  sundowner and fund-raiser for psac.
air conditioning on hot afternoons makes the teen center a welcome refuge  from the heat.
a star is essentially a gigantic hydrogen bomb - a fusion explosion converting hydrogen to helium and heavier elements, releasing enormous amounts of energy in the process.
when the tide comes up, the boats may rise, but sometimes it also floods.
our numbers are down this summer as schedules fill up with outdoor and family activities, but many visitors and new residents have come to join us and it is always a pleasure to welcome them.
the wolf catches the duck and swallows it in a single gulp!
the cooperative extension system today is very much about ensuring  continued leadership in agriculture and the stewardship of our nation's land  and other natural resources; creation of confident, public-service-oriented  citizens through the 4-h youth development program and adult leadership  training; the strengthening of families and the viability of communities.
many people have that special recipe of their own for chile, so the challenge is to prove that your recipe is the best by entering the second annual lee sterling chile taste thursday, aug. 5.
chances are slim either was asked prior to his execution whether he was republican or democrat, "liberal" or a "conservative."
with organic paints participants will  hand-form, burnish, decorate and trench kiln fire their own handmade pottery.
"like other americans working to improve their quality of life through  increased physical activity, these men and women have their own fountain of  youth," said anthony j. principi, secretary of veterans affairs.
as a result of these impacts, the greenback cutthroat has been listed federally as a threatened subspecies, and the colorado river cutthroat has been displaced from more than 80 percent of its historic range, inhabiting only smaller headwater streams and high-altitude lakes.
call 264-5020 to see if the office is open before  making a visit.
july will present two full moons and two full moon programs at chimney  rock.
what we do know is that the chimney rock interpretive program will hold a  series of special programs to illuminate and celebrate such events.
our nation is divided as rarely before, polarized into factions tagged with  emotionally-loaded labels.
for example, you might want to show your animal swimming, flying, lying down, getting up, eating, chewing, pouncing or crawling.
according to colorado state patrol reports, jacob egg, 25, matthew hunt, 21, and isaiah lucero, 21, all of pagosa springs, were ejected from a pickup truck in a one-vehicle accident on u.s. 84 near mile marker 26.
mahler had cited a german poem called "resurrection" as his  inspiration for this second symphony of his: "š when the earth is silent and deserted š only the  long-drawn note of the bird of death š soft and simple the words gently  build up: you will rise again, my dust, after a short rest.
volunteers 18 years and younger require parental consent, and young people 10-13 years of age must be accompanied by an adult.
" biologists blame the decline of colorado's cutthroats on hybridization with rainbow trout and competition with other non-native trout that were introduced to the state a century ago.
so you will want to be familiar with the characters and the basic story.
there is fourmile creek just beginning to tumble over the edge.
visitors, especially the children, can experiment with color and design to make a "pretend" quilt at a table adjacent to the old times schoolroom.
the cost for all three days is $130 or $123.50 for psac members.
our nation must  continue to expand lifelong learning to all of society and to utilize existing  and new knowledge to solve complex problems.
take your horses up the anderson trail, if you're heading up to fourmile and turkey lakes for fishing or hunting.
"this resolution basically says a huge developer can't just come in and change the use of that little hydrant and expect the district to cover the costs," concluded tautges.
concern for the colorado river and rio grande subspecies has prompted environmental groups to petition for their listing as well.
last year this group traveled to washington, d.c.  where they were featured in a concert on the steps of the lincoln memorial  under the direction of paul arrendell, son of the local resident beverly  arrendell.
monday-friday, july 12-16, from 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m.,  with a full day field trip thursday, july 15.
with news last week that paul johnson was kidnapped by terrorists and beheaded while yet another american civilian was shot and killed in saudi arabia, and with additional warnings about imminent attacks within the u.s., the message should be clear to the most resistant among us: there is a movement afoot in the world seeking our destruction, as individuals, as a society and a culture.
hence  the supernova.
who do you think will be able to get jobs "up there?"
local businesses and private citizens then began donating to the program, which is aimed at augmenting the dow's scheduled stockings and restoring trout populations that suffered during 2002's record drought.
extra-large, please." "get serious.
following the  program, please plan to stay and enjoy a pot luck dessert and drinks provided  by the community center.
it would be like torching a  mattress.
our hope lies in the fact many americans are still able to deal with  complexity and ambiguity, to think through issues and make decisions without  recourse to the stereotypes created by political strategists, pr people and  biased media.
this always-fun day will include a 9k race for adults, a fun run for the kids (both races with dogs), the paws parade with kids, pets and costumes, canine good citizenship certification, breed showcase, llama performance and a reunion of owners and dogs that were adopted from the shelter.
included in the program will be the parade of colors by local veterans as  well as local talent including john graves, father john bowe, a barbershop  quartet from the senior center, and a ladies trio.
tickets are $10 - saturday, july 31 - full moon program, blue moon.
the official  ballot for the candidates for the board of directors and the proposed bylaw  changes are a part of the newsletter.
early registration deadline is july 15.
the goal of the club, which organized officially in 1992, is to promote archery to families and younger generations, to provide a way for hunters and non-hunters to hone their archery skills, and most of all, just to have fun.
nature writing - nature is an ever-changing pageant of texture and color,  dynamism and quietude, of sweeping grandeur and brilliant detail.
district reservoirs were at the following levels early this week: - lake hatcher - 17 inches below spillway - stevens reservoir - 100 percent full - lake pagosa - 100 percent full - lake forest - six inches below spillway - village lake - 26 inches below spillway.
finally, "how do we do something?" asked planning commissioner jerry jackson near meeting's end.
in 1998, the state had 87 stream populations of conservation-rated colorado river cutthroats and nine lake populations.
in addition  there is continuing parade of programs planned from now until 2008 exploring  the phenomenon of the northern lunar standstill as it impacts sightings at  chimney rock.
the 18th national veterans golden age games, a national sports and  recreational competition sponsored by the department of veterans affairs (va),  will take place july 18-23 at the fresno convention center and other area  venues.
the creation of the crab nebula was one of several events in the sky over and around chimney rock in the years 900 to 1200 a.d.
a "skin" is won by posting a net score on a hole which is lower than any other golfer's score on that hole.
about a mile  into the hike i met two dogs and their owner, heading back.
each character in "peter and the wolf" is represented by an  instrument or instrumental family: peter by the string instruments of the  orchestra, the grandfather by bassoons, the bird by flutes, the duck by oboes,  the cat by clarinets, the wolf by french horns, and the hunters by percussion  instruments.
contact myles gabel if  you are interested.
the fine art of greeting cards - learn a multitude of artistic techniques  to create your own sendable, framable greeting cards, tags, and envelopes.
you will see what a quilt top looks like before the batting, backing, and binding are added.
this fast-paced class will include a poured paint floral project, a contact paper landscape, a palette knife garden scene and a collage project.
travel writing - travel is a composite of exploration and discovery; of  taste, smell, and touch; of history, culture, and geography; of personal  immersion in new experiences.
peter tells his grandfather that he is not afraid of wolves!
rhea also had no map, compass, gps device or cell phone.
the fremont county development policy addresses the environmental, cultural and visual impacts of growth and includes identification of commercial and industrial hubs, a transfer of development rights option and elements related to traditional zoning plans.
at penasco blanco in chaco canyon, n.m., a pictograph of a crescent moon  and star is thought to represent the supernova.
surveillance and monitoring of mosquitoes and west nile virus 3. sanitation and maintenance 4.
anyone interested in being a part of the initiative is invited to come and bring their own lunch.
the meeting will be 11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. friday, july 9, in the pagosa springs community center.
each day will be unique, so if you cannot  participate for all three days, you may join the class for individual days.
similar opinions followed; for example, after indicating he feels the process may still "sink of it's own weight," planning commissioner bob huff expressed a willingness to proceed.
however, all those who are  seeking to obtain a greater understanding of their life, where they are, where  they have been and where they are going, are welcome to join in on a fun  journey of discovery and greater self-awareness as you explore the four seasons  of life.
"it looks like more of the same."
open dancing and too much fun till 11.
the park to park arts and crafts festival will take place on july 2, 3 and  4 along with the red ryder rodeo and the 2004 quilt fest to be held in the  mamie lynch gymnasium.
a practice range with hay bales and paper targets is erected near a shade tent to give people a chance to warm up and sight-in their equipment.
you always have  the flu or shingles or offer up some other phony excuse.
an intriguing area,  the site has been excavated by several archeologists, beginning in the 1920s.
in addition to the education booth, visitors will have a chance to vote for  their favorite among the quilts entered in the pieces of america challenge  issued to guild members.
there is a class for toddlers and their moms at 10 a.m.; a class for children age five to seven at 11 a.m.; and a class for children age 8 to 12 beginning at 1 p.m. registration is ongoing throughout the summer, and children can try a class without having to make a long-term commitment.
beyond the meadow is a  deep, dark forest.
let's call it three grand, plus fifty or so bucks,  firm."
join me for a journey into the process of putting a part of yourself on paper.
i'm buying a new patio table and chairs set to go along with the grill.
pet pride day features races, contests, displays by pauline benetti special to the sun the humane society invites everyone, especially kids and their pets, to town park saturday.
the office will be open, but some routine maintenance and cleaning will  happen during this time.
"we hope everyone will bring blankets and chairs and really have a fun time."
what is illuminated in this is a threat nearly as deadly as the hooded  thugs who kidnap and kill.
if you do win, you can say that you make the best chile in town and have a prize to prove it!
at a restaurant that had been there for over a  quarter of a century.
arts educators paul and carla roberts draw upon children's innate  creative abilities and help them develop artistic skills in fun ways.
admission to the show is $2  for adults and $1 for youth ages 10-18.
you always have the flu or shingles or offer up some other phony excuse.
what are your job responsibilities?
she responded, "in new york." "i see," responded mrs. martinez.
rotary holiday parade don't forget to pick up your entry form for the july 4 parade sponsored as always by our pagosa springs rotary club with great prizes awarded to winners in categories that include commercial, nonprofit and service groups, individuals and families, youth groups and musical.
" "we'll fix the deck.
the community plan, a conceptual guideline for the development of growth-management policies, was adopted by the county in 2001.
hoyle is survived by his wife, jane hafely; sisters lois buchanan and twila whitmore; son, lee; daughters sherry, shelley and lynn; stepchildren gayle, ed, zoe, janey and candy; 14 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren; numerous nieces and nephews.
"but we've also got some fish in the 16-20 inch range and a few that are anywhere from about six to 10 pounds."
by leanne goebel special to the preview join the board of directors and members at the annual meeting of the pagosa  springs arts council tonight at jj's upstream.
she had a ready smile and a love of life.
this year's fair dates are thursday, aug. 5 through sunday, aug. 8, and  ronnie will be happy to hear from you at 264-6122 if you are interested in  lending a hand.
building project update final plans should be in this week from the architect, dennis humphries and the contractor, colorado jaynes.
and it is here that we step  back in time and examine the impact quilts have as silent messengers.
ongoing workshops beginning watercolor with denny rose and virginia bartlett, every monday and wednesday 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m., at the fairfield activities center.
at the dawn of the 21st century, the american land-grant university system began the engagement movement.
a big group of volunteers made it all happen and every cent raised was voluntarily donated.
brush grows over what might have been the trail, so i take to the rocks around it.
lady golfers climb to third in league by lynne allison special to the sun pagosa women's golf association featured a low gross, low net format for weekly league day june 15.
after the hour-long concert, hot dogs, chips, ice cream, lemonade and water  will be served free, thanks to the generosity of montezuma's restaurant, the  springs, and jim and bonnie van bortel.
bow club sponsors fundraiser for pathfinders by tess noel baker staff writer these targets can't run and hide.
the parade will take place saturday, july 3, and the  concert and fireworks will be held at the sports complex downtown this year  sunday, july 4, with lots of related activities and events.
they must be verified after the election, then counted and added to the election night totals.
extension viewpointsextension viewpoints cooperative extension system: more relevant today than ever
you could do  with fewer chins.
no previous painting experience is necessary, but this class is for the experienced painter as well.
the truth about our war against terrorists, now so burdened by shortsighted political reductionism, is it will likely go on for a very long time.
the book is "the inextinguishable symphony," a true story of  music and love in nazi germany.
when i got home i imposed on charlie and his friend to help me heft the  grill from truck to deck (that portion of the structure that might support the  device).
there are some small  waterlogged tree trunks laying across the fast-moving stream and i don't like  the look of them.
spaces are available to rent at this event for the above-mentioned groups.
following the program will be a potluck dessert time.
nearly 65,000 veterans will receive long-term care this year through inpatient va or state veterans home programs.
the legs, made from pennsylvania hard maple, are stabilized at  the base by gracefully curved stretchers joined at their centers by a ball and  block mechanism.
the (800) medicare line operates 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, and callers are advised to contact them outside normal business hours to have shorter wait time.
the poems reveal the unique wisdom and  vision of a people.
the board determined that we needed a "seasoned" director to fill nan's vacancy since we all concurred that it takes about a year to absorb and assimilate all the chamber "stuff."
do you realize how many people we owe?
ray finished second in the all-around against girls in the child division  (10 and under), scoring a 34.55.
national weather service and minnesota twins all star center fielder torii hunter, along with other partners, are campaigning to alert the nation to the dangers of lightning to help save lives.
it is the art form that fills the souls of many people.
afternoons will be spent painting, using the morning's lessons.
rhea was located about 7:45 p.m. above the switchbacks well into the trail after ground search crews noticed footprints of a lone individual traveling deeper into the forest.
allen said it might be possible to use his expertise on a broader citizens' committee appointed to look at the issue.
greenbacks have also been stocked in high lakes and may be harvested.
and it isn't any second place, but second place in the state and it was paced by a record-setting individual performance by raesha ray.
lessons and party will be at plpoa clubhouse, 230 port ave.
nomination forms are also available at npdcolorado.org.
frank hutchins and  kim winston each obtained one greenie and russ hatfield bested the field on two  of the par three holes.
water for both humans and canines will be provided along the route and all runners will receive a t-shirt.
division of wildlife gets new director bruce mccloskey has been appointed as the new director of the colorado division of wildlife (dow).
we have spontaneous tournaments daily.
"we have three very active conservation programs for our three native cutthroat subspecies," nesler said.
these early four corners inhabitants left images that may represent this new star.
each character in "peter and the wolf" is represented by an instrument or instrumental family: peter by the string instruments of the orchestra, the grandfather by bassoons, the bird by flutes, the duck by oboes, the cat by clarinets, the wolf by french horns, and the hunters by percussion instruments.
rehearsals will start july 12.
parks & recparks & rec fireworks show will be july 4 at high school sports complex
as far as participation in this year's program, cano said at least 15 area businesses have contributed to the cause thus far, and indicated additional donations will be greatly appreciated.
a summer bash dance party will be held 6-11 p.m. thursday, july 29.
with the sudden closure of martha t's (which was providing a small senior program with the assistance of the county), i scrambled to continue a meal program in arboles.
hosted by va's central california health care system, the games have competition in swimming, bicycling, horseshoes, bowling, croquet and a pentathlon (softball hit, discus, shot put, basketball free throw and air guns).
by joe lister jr. sun columnist there have been several calls about when and where this year's fourth of july fireworks show will be held.
he noted our enemies are counting on us to fight among ourselves then cede to their demands.
inside the suninside
the most deceiving one is the raccoon."
owing to a small breakdown at the plant of the new light & power co. tuesday evening, pagosa was without lights or power until early wednesday morning, repairs being obtained at the bayfield plant.
darin rome with la plata arrived with the cherry picker and put up the  errant flag, and i thank darin for his efforts.
program begins at 8.
the event begins with a gala opening ceremony at 7 p.m. on sunday, july 18, in the exhibit hall of the convention center.
" "and your social rehabilitation, buster.
i ordered chile con carne, and my palate was greeted by  new tastes such as cilantro, cumin and, of course, the principal of this dish,  red chile.
he had become separated from her and two grandchildren while hiking the coal creek trail near fawn gulch road.
other commission members were a little more cautious.
ellen is survived by a brother, harold noel fullen of brownsville; daughters catherine suzanne gerhards richie of pagosa springs and deborah ann moore of natalia, texas; granddaughters melissa ermenio of las vegas, nev., and kristie morales of dallas, texas; grandsons morris gentry richie jr. of lubbock, texas, jeremy morales of colorado springs; and two great-grandchildren, anthony ermenio and chelsey ermenio of las vegas.
give brad a call at 731-9115 to learn more about integrity computers  and phone systems.
clark and deputy richard valdez responded to the scene a third time when a column of smoke was spotted about 9 p.m. june 21.
it is a youth program of the  colorado parks and recreation association with the support provided in the form  of a grant through the colorado rockies and the robert r. mccormick foundation.
my goal is to climb pagosa peak," he said.
to make the dean's honor roll, a student must complete at least 12 semester hours and earn a 3.45 or higher grade point average.
this is a simple process: the veggies get grilled, each timed according to its needs, then get plopped on the upper rack over low heat, next to the tortillas.
for 20 years, they've done just that.
often, does will leave their fawns alone while they venture off to feed.
make this fourth of july (sunday) the best family time spent this summer.
once the notes are out, we will catalog the travel guide - it is an eyewitness guide that shows what others only tell you.
he was preceded in death by his parents and a brother, earl.
we have received calls from other groups, such as candidates, church groups, educational groups etc.
winds in the 10-15 miles per hour range are expected to accompany increasing clouds throughout the day friday, along with highs in the upper 70s and lows in the 40s.
in this course, you will learn how to translate  the knowledge and emotion gained from traveling to a new place - whether exotic  or regional - into clear and compelling language that not only captures the  essence of people and place but also stirs the interest and passion of the  reader.
on the return a taffy pull or other homemade refreshments awaited the famished crowd in one of the homes.
this high school group of 30 is from the first  united methodist church in arlington, texas, and will be here in pagosa as a  part of their summer tour.
" 3 pagosans hurt, michigan man killed in accidents by tess noel baker staff writer a michigan man was killed and two pagosa springs men were seriously injured in two separate accidents saturday.
"by trying to help, people can put the wildlife at risk."
you'll look real cute  and everyone will love the food and admire your skill.
there will also be quilts, quilts and more quilts.
this next phase of higher learning involves the  broader university-academic and clinical faculty, students, extension faculty  and staff, and university leaders-in improving current and forming new mutually  beneficial learning partnerships with residents and community leaders.
we'll be talking more about july 4 events in the future, but keep in mind  that there will be days of celebration for you to enjoy with family and friends.
program starts at 6:15.
the workshop was attended by representatives of the planning commission, county commissioners, administration, planning department staff and about a dozen members of the public.
its the right time of the year to adopt a cat by robbie schwartz special to the preview 'tis the season that animal shelters are filled with cats and kittens, making it an ideal time to adopt.
the youngest member of the team, she scored above 8.0 on vault in every meet and "stuck" her beam routine at state.
i'm going to extract from this book their experience rehearsing and performing "symphony no. 2, resurrection" by gustave mahler that's available on cd at sisson library.
i'm sure you can easily fit  into one of those categories and stand to win some dough if your group wins.
in beginners ii there will be lessons and exercises about shapes, composition and design, choosing subjects, further study about value and color, and advanced techniques such as lifting, scraping, masking, glazing, working with sponges, salt, saran wrap and waxed paper.
ballots will be mailed to all current members of the association no later then 10 days prior to the annual meeting date, sept. 11.
living with the loss (widow/widowers support group), 1 p.m. tuesday, june 29 - no yoga in motion; advanced computer class, 10:30 a.m.;  massage, 11 a.m-1p.m.; youth choir sings, 1 p.m. wednesday, june 30 - beginning computer, 10:30 a.m.; canasta, 1 p.m. friday, july 2 - qi gong, 10 a.m.; blood pressure check, 11; veterans'  benefits, noon menu friday, june 25 - beef stew, mixed green salad, biscuit and fruit parfait monday, june 28 - chicken fajitas, refried beans, spanish rice, stewed  tomatoes and fresh fruit tuesday, june 29 - hamburger potato salad, relish platter, bananas and  strawberries wednesday, june 30 - jeweled pork loin, squash, green beans almondine,  biscuit and baked apple friday, july 2 - hot turkey sandwich, mashed potatoes/gravy, cranberry  sauce, green beans and fruit salad.
runners, don't forget to lace-up your running shoes saturday morning so you  can run in support of our humane society.
now the folks who have successfully unloaded  their "stuff" can go out and buy more.
their children may do battle in order to maintain our society.
he was wearing shorts and a fleece top.
full moon rises at 9:27.
she had helped start a hospice chapter in their community and eventually it would serve her.
i'm buying a new patio  table and chairs set to go along with the grill.
opening day was thursday, june 17, and the smell of good food, the sounds of laughter and music, and balloons filled the air.
there is also still time to register for the paws parade in the park at the humane society thrift store or the shelter.
the pink panther for fun.
as a  result of the feedback derived from extension's involvement in the greater  community, academic programs are becoming more experiential and research is  focusing on finding solutions to problems identified by the citizenry.
this is a new one on the agenda.
beginning with "garrick gaieties" in 1925 (originally a benefit show for the theater guild, which was so successful it had two broadway runs), rodgers and hart's material ranged from silly satire to the poignant but daring social commentary of "pal joey," with some of the most beautiful love songs in all musical literature gracing each and every production.
we  will give you some clues in this area.
moisture totals for the week, in town, amounted to zero.
moreover, i probably don't deserve  anything.
we sincerely welcome don back to our board and applaud him for agreeing to join this motley crew for the next six months.
consumers can obtain some of this information themselves.
in the  meantime feel free to stop in monday's from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. and our fantastic  medicare counselors will assist you.
"a wildlife officer can come out and check on the animal without endangering its chance for survival."
by leanne goebel special to the preview nationally renowned and award-winning artist joye moon, will conduct a  four-day watercolor workshop for the pagosa springs arts council.
citing a local tract of pasture consisting of one horse, a single faucet and a bathtub trough as an example, "the parcel is within the district, so the district is responsible for providing water to that faucet, which fills the tub and allows the horse to drink," said tautges. "
an intriguing area, the site has been excavated by several archeologists, beginning in the 1920s.
" shooters travel in groups of at least three.
for information on these and other veteran's benefits please call or stop by the veterans service office on the lower floor of the county courthouse.
with the "bean cooker" i can amp up the fare considerably.
joye moon's one woman exhibit at the gallery in town park opens july 1 with a reception for the artist from 5-7 p.m. moon is providing wisconsin cheese and wine for the celebration.
join us to find out these facts and more as chimney rock  interpretive association presents a full moon rise program.
mark is vice president at citizens and offers all areas  of commercial loans including business loans, new construction, land loans and  permanents.
gates open 4:45-5 a.m.
what color chairs and umbrella  do you prefer?
introduction to rock art and the architecture of chaco canyon - known for its beautiful and intriguing native american rock art, learn all about southwest history through its art by joining us for in-class and out door field experiences.
however, "this recommendation intends the pursuing of the development of the code," said van patter, "not the adoption of the code.
peterson believes that staying active and involved with sports helped his recovery.
"when i minister to a family in hospice," he said, "i find i don't minister to them, but they to me.
vendors will also be present from various restaurants in town to offer items from their menu.
there will also be the "people's choice award" where the patrons of the event can judge who is the best.
she, too, was on hand at state for moral support and intends to perform again next year.
funeral services will be held at a later date in mission burial park south in san antonio, texas.
the best of americans do not exist in the oxygen-deprived extremes.
the public is invited to attend and meet the artists: william secrest of pagosa springs with "stump images," oil paintings of uprooted tree trunks that are intended as landscape metaphors for his personal journey; ric peterson of durango with portraits of real and imagined people, places and botanicals in realistic and surrealistic styles; and jamie turk of fort collins, displaying figure studies rendered in a variety of media and incorporating three-dimensional materials into her compositions.
there is something instantly comforting about standing on the shores of the san juan as people tell of their experiences with hospice service.
"we're all but done," he added, indicating the responsibility for such decisions ultimately falls into the hands of the planning commission and county commissioners.
open mic will continue at 6 p.m. fridays.
gates open 5:15-5:45 p.m.
having served for six years under three different chairmen, i have never been treated so disrespectfully.
i felt so good when i reached this spot that i entertained the notion of  continuing on up the trail to the top of the other waterfall, the fourmile  creek one, and then going on to fourmile lake.
clemison said the first shoot of the year is a money shoot with winners in each class getting a portion of 50 percent of the entry fees.
these competitors reflect the courage, commitment and determination they demonstrated during their military service," said jim donahoe, vcs national director.
moon demonstrates the projects several times during the day and prides  herself in giving each student individual attention.
up and at 'em, chunky." "but chauncey is having an affair with the gal at the drive-thru  window and, for crying out loud, taneesha just had twins.
there are poignant subtleties here.
the town council has final approval or denial authority on both of these projects.
the point is  simple: we must find strength in what we have in common and not allow  small-minded partisanship to weaken us in the face of great danger.
the silver foxes den senior center is providing assistance to archuleta county medicare consumers to make these choices.
it would be like torching a mattress.
how we handle loss is what we pass on to others.
squeeze into those dockers and take the truck  to the store, check out the grill, tell them we'll take it.
and all age groups are susceptible to the virus.
some were the pioneer settlers in our state.
" "your ne'er-do-well daughters aren't going to get you anything.
at first it's just a steep trail.
the young couple was newly married.
pagosa springs all-star competition will begin in july.
what color chairs and umbrella do you prefer?
yardages are unmarked.
the humane society of pagosa springs has cats in all sizes, ages and colors, not to mention a myriad of purr-sonalities.
hatchery technicians must put the fish in first-use water and feed them a special, more expensive diet that is fortified with protein, amino acids and double vitamin packs.
an extra fleece shirt.
classes are scheduled for 9 p.m. thursday, july 1, wednesday, july 7, and  thursdays, july 15 and 22.
a plea to make every street in pagosa springs an "avenue of flags" on july 4 was made by george alley, jr., commander of the local american legion.
oh, incidentally, if i owe you a meal, don't hold your breath waiting for  the invitation.
mr. and mrs.  williams first came to pagosa springs in 1974.
please come and help drown out my terrible voice and join in with our  community.
today the cooperative extension system maintains its reputation for high quality, non-formal educational programs.
she is sobbing, the left strap of her flimsy tank top falling off her pudgy shoulder.
did you know that early american quilters often expressed their superstitious nature within their quilts?
egg, the driver, was airlifted to st. vincent's hospital in santa fe where he remained in serious condition in the intensive care unit wednesday morning.
in addition to local talent, a visiting youth choir, testament, will sing several patriotic medleys.
just look at what happened to the folks from fort collins.
she was preceded in death by her husband, lawrence; brother, clarence  fullen; and granddaughter, jennifer lynn richie.
"these federal dollars are much needed and will be well spent.
when did you arrive in pagosa springs?
then, the  slab is off the grill and on to a plate on the side wing of the grill to rest a  few minutes.
according to a news release from the san juan public lands center in durango, the lightning-started middle fork fire is burning at an elevation of 9,720 feet about 1.5 miles northeast of the middle fork trailhead.
the program is free to the public and flags will be given to all who attend courtesy of the chamber of commerce and the community center.
native women shaped the west through the arts - weaving stories, songs, painting, rugs, and their lives together.
the office is open 8 a.m.-4 p.m., monday  through thursday; friday by appointment.
activities today - the mountain man rendezvous begins on reservoir hill june 26 - pet pride day in the town park.
i  think we can do it for about two grand.
you could do with fewer chins.
so, it seems to me, it would take away from our business and salaries, not increase or benefit them.
there were people at 38 booths hawking their wares, and well over 300 shoppers attending.
"this meeting tonight is because we're backing up," said jackson, indicating he feels it is time decide what comes next.
it seems i am going to have to adjust my cooking style in order to produce the volume needed to justify the expense.
as a unique achievement in american education, the cooperative extension system continues its longstanding tradition of fulfilling that need by extending the university to the people to improve the quality of life for individuals, families, business and nonprofit organizations, and communities.
by tess noel baker staff writer town staff floated the idea of a tree conservation ordinance past pagosa springs planning commission ears for the first time tuesday.
did you know that pioneer women stitched quilt blocks  as they walked hundreds of miles to their new homes in the west?
children under 13 are free, but must be accompanied by an adult.
felicia meyer and melinda baum are in charge of the open audition for the parts in "peter," a musical work created by russian composer sergei prokofiev to teach his children about the symphony.
the most common form is a valid colorado driver's license; however, any one of the following will also suffice: - a current and valid colorado department of revenue issued identification card - a current and valid united states passport - a current and valid employee identification card with a photograph of the eligible voter issued by any branch, department, agency or entity of the united states government or of this state or by any county, municipality, board authority or other political subdivision of this state - a current and valid pilot's license for the eligible voter issued by the federal aviation administration or other authorized agency of the united states - a current and valid united states military identification card with a photograph of the eligible voter - a copy of a current utility bill, bank statement, government check, paycheck, or other government document that shows the name and address of the elector - a medicaid or medicare card.
youth learn science, math, and social skills through hands-on  projects and activities - agriculture - research and educational programs assist individuals to  learn new ways to produce income through alternative enterprises, improved  marketing strategies and management skills and help farmers and ranchers  improve productivity through resource management, controlling crop pests, soil  testing, livestock production practices, rangeland management and marketing.
the national cooperative extension system today is as critical to the future success of america in the 21st century as it was in the 20th century due to the increased diversity and complexity of the issues people encounter today.
and the general direction seems to be forward, according to the majority of sentiments expressed at the end of a monday night workshop designed to get everyone involved up to speed.
the up and downs were just great.
we veterans can lead the community in patriotic spirit and show support for  our country, and honor all those who serve in our military today.
it's been two years and we haven't had them over yet.
the teen center is in the community center on hot springs boulevard.
moon teaches watercolor workshops all over the u.s. as well as in  other countries.
for more information or to register call 247-7385.
try our quilting trivia displayed here.
for now, greenback populations at recovery sites must be released back into state waters if they are caught.
the national senior olympics is a community-based member of the united states olympic committee and recognizes senior u.s. athletes in several age-groups.
all rentals and donations go toward offsetting costs of the pyrotechnics display.
calendar of events mark your calendar and join us for one or several of our special events this summer.
the points shift down a scale to five for hitting anywhere on the animal but the antlers.
girls not yet signed up are urged to do so as soon as possible, since camp  t-shirts must be ordered.
come in and have lunch with us if you have a birthday this month.
a fire can qualify for wildland fire use management, as opposed to full suppression, if it is naturally caused and does not threaten populated areas.
the guys at the store will help you load things in the truck."
introduction to rock art and the architecture of chaco canyon - known for  its beautiful and intriguing native american rock art, learn all about  southwest history through its art by joining us for in-class and out door field  experiences.
concessions, which include picnic-type foods will be supplied by local non-profit groups and a few private vendors.
the application form is short, assets like your investments and home are not considered, and you don't have to send in tax forms or other proof of income," wollenweber said.
" "yep." "it's not right.
appropriately, the opening musical selections was a duet of "in the garden".
she fought it until the very end.
it seems i am going to have to adjust my cooking style in order to produce  the volume needed to justify the expense.
i'll wear them proudly at the gym when i lift heavy objects and put them back down again.
friends and family are invited to gather at the family home saturday, june  26, 2004, for a continuing celebration of his life.
the late stan haynes came to pagosa from granby in 1984 with his wife, beverly, and son, mike, and started ponderosa hardware in downtown pagosa springs.
"veterans canteen service is proud to be one of the sponsors of the national veterans golden age games.
so, i  challenge all of our archuleta county veterans to attend.
hospice chaplain don straight talked of the practice of young children building sand castles and lamenting when the tide washes them away.
nomination forms are available from jeanne bistranin, awards committee chair at the adolph coors foundation (303) 388-1636, ext.
through exhibiting my work as well as teaching, i can share the lessons i have learned with others who are eager to experience the creative challenge," moon said.
snow still exists on north aspects and in the upper elevations north of the fire.
addressing assertions the proposed code is arbitrary, "we're talking about an 'arbitrary code' that doesn't exist," said baker.
you might think this is a lot to carry, but trust me, if something went wrong and you had to spend the night, you'd want to be prepared.
although shooting is their main focus, schweickert said, the club holds one major membership meeting a year and sometimes short meetings following a shoot for announcements.
people preview profile accounts payable clerk for the pagosa area water and sanitation district where were you born?
"there are no known deaths from spraying these products.
be sure you don't miss out on the fun and yummy food and join us at our next picnic in the park in july.
peter calls out to the bird, warning it, and it flies into a tall tree  for safety.
for more information, contact the southern ute fire management office at (970) 563-4571.
while the old water wheel has served the town well and pumped many gallons of water, it is no longer the able machine it once was.
please include a visit to quilt fest in your holiday plans.
darin rome with la plata arrived with the cherry picker and put up the errant flag, and i thank darin for his efforts.
god speed, chauncey; there is no escape for me.
it is a youth program of the colorado parks and recreation association with the support provided in the form of a grant through the colorado rockies and the robert r. mccormick foundation.
you'll need some grill utensils and i figure  that's another thirty bucks.
but so far i've stayed on the trails, where people are likely to find me.
you will also enjoy contests of all kinds, food and lots and lots of fun.
we are in the  "permit" stage at present.
did you know that pieced designs or "blocks" often have names?
"i was the assistant director of human resources at bossier community college."
rsvp to operation healthy communities at 382-0585 or ohc@gobrainstorm.net.
in a  journey of 18.61 years, the moon travels the horizon from south to north,  pauses for several years, then returns to the southern end of the cycle.
the silver foxes den senior center can be reached by calling 264-2167.
did they influence the settlement and importance of the site?
last year the group traveled to washington, d.c., where they were featured in a concert on the steps of the lincoln memorial.
cost for tuesday night practice shoots, from 6 p.m. to dark, are $3 for members and $5 for nonmembers.
search on for state's top philanthropists the national philanthropy day committee is asking the people of colorado for their help.
instead, the bells sent ahead the message to put on coats and caps because the sled was approaching.
second, entrants will be asked to spontaneously pantomime a role chosen from "peter" with the music playing.
veterans gustafson, robert dobbins, ernie garcia and ed dailey will present  a parade of colors.
if you would like to participate, are interested in camping or have any questions about the rendezvous, please call billy hawkins at (970) 247-8149.
open mic helps teens overcome phobias
it is constantly attempting to maintain a balance  between two titanic forces: the immense gravity of its mass, which is trying to  compress and crush it, and the gigantic outward pressure of the nuclear fusion  at the core, which is trying to blow it apart.
so much that  goes on goes on successfully is a result of volunteers.
this is not due to any demands stated by you via the phone nor due to the threatening letters i have received, but rather a decision that i was making due to the treatment i was subjected to last night (june 15).
this is perfectly normal and is not abandonment.
nominations must be postmarked or electronically submitted by july 16.
" close to the waterfall, i met a man who told me that he was walking on two brand-new knees.
contact psac at 264-5020 or e-mail psac@centurytel.net.
well, to define it "exactly" would probably take a science degree and several thousand words, but following are a few assorted facts relating to this phenomenon.
now he has a new journey, one like he has never seen his path is brighter, even more beautiful than his "cool, clear, clean pagosa springs.
typically seen as the civilizing force for this  untamed region, women instead often were feisty and unwilling to live by the  conventional rules they had left behind.
the minivan came back on the road briefly before rolling multiple times for 266 feet, traveling over a cement culvert wall, through a creek and a fence before coming to rest on its top.
in essence, hatchery personnel are helping nature by increasing the survivability of the eggs and fry, which in the wild can experience up to 99 percent mortality.
i like grilled vegetables
they continued to live in or visit pagosa until the years caught up with them in 1999.
sam was born in louisville, ky., jan. 15, 1936, the son of melvin earl and  maude thomas furniss kittinger.
cited for their academic performance were mylinda l. blankenship, drisa a. carrizo, danny d. lyon and hillary m. wienpahl.
this should be a wonderful presentation.
league dues are $25 for the season, payable in the pro shop.
while i was  in arboles preparing for the grand opening they stole the can that i draw  numbers from and replaced the numbers with fictitious ones.
that could be changing.
quilt fest 2004 will be held july 2, 3 and 4 in the mamie lynch gymnasium at the corner of lewis and 4th streets.
it's more  like a boulder scramble.
with lightning, it's one strike and you're out!"
right after you cross fall creek the trail becomes steep and heavily  eroded.
full moon rises at 8:53.
"if a church or group would like to supply judges for a polling place, the money could go to that organization or church," she said.
you can use the grill to help you become a semi-likable person.
"' localslocals jessica brown jessica brown, of pagosa springs, was named to the dean's honor roll at abilene christian university for the spring 2004 semester.
building project update final plans should be in this week from the architect, dennis humphries and  the contractor, colorado jaynes.
several new folks joined us and we look forward to seeing them at the  center; we also welcomed back several snow birds.
suzanne davis, owner and operator of fresh herbal body care, will lead the walk.
anglers should check the appropriate regulations before stopping at a specific fishing site, wildlife officials said.
other key factors in the policy are "suitability analysis" and the notion that "density is not specified by zones or districts, but rather calculated on environmental sensitivity of the land.
the winner must remove the catalog from the library premises by a certain date, yet to be determined.
any medicare recipient who does not have drug insurance from a former employer or medicaid and who meets income guidelines qualifies.
a big group of volunteers made it all happen and every cent raised  was voluntarily donated.
it's not that i am averse to  grilling, but i've grown very comfy with stovetop and oven work.
meals are served the first and third thursday of every month at the arboles catholic church with a suggested donation of $2.50 for folks 60-plus and their spouses, $4.50 for under age 60.
" "first, yes you need it.
remembering your story creating a spiritual autobiography - are you seeking a renewed sense of life?
(the second full moon occurring in any month is called the "blue  moon," thus the expression "once in a blue moon.")
the agreement also calls for future supplies to reservoir hill and centennial park.
the  sight is stunning.
this is the third consecutive summer that music in the mountains will offer musical events here in pagosa, and the first time we have had a free outdoor concert for the community.
please contact the contest officiator, kim moore, at 731-0426 for complete  details and event times.
i hiked fourmile creek trail last week, a few days after the lost hiker incident.
with teams from pagosa springs and dulce competing each week the games have been close and exciting.
the story goes that two new customers came in, lucy and mel martinez.
you'll need some grill utensils and i figure that's another thirty bucks.
with organic paints participants will hand-form, burnish, decorate and trench kiln fire their own handmade pottery.
jewelry case donated a jewelry display case, designed, constructed, and donated by david smith is now on display at the gallery.
as well, chief librarian lenore bright will include "peter and the wolf" in the children's summer reading program.
only part of the moon is expected to  be seen at this viewing.
the dogs were  polite and stuck to the trail, until they saw a rabbit and took off after it.
the haynes once told the sun they would operate with the motto:  "service like grandad had."
"we're generally under a flat ridge of high pressure and expect to be for the next several days," says jeff colton, a forecaster with the national weather service office in grand junction.
brad carey joins us next with integrity computers and phone systems with offices located in his home.
isn't it fun that you can buy and buy and some months later decide that you have tired of those purchases or perhaps it has outgrown its useful life.
our first new member this week is joanne long who brings us the ancient  wisdom healing center and ageless beauty at 145 south second st. providing much  more than just pampering, this center offers a sanctuary guided by ancient  wisdom.
it is a companion to the ever-popular family festivo event that has been held for several years in durango.
" samuel kittinger samuel "sam" clay kittinger died in his pagosa springs home on  june 15, 2004.
new exhibit july 1 there will be no exhibit in the gallery at town park until nationally-renowned artist joye moon opens her solo exhibit july 1.
"and if no mosquito-control programs are in place, urge them to implement one," he says.
uncover and explore the connection between your unique life story and the story of the others through the sacred texts from the hebrew and christian scriptures and contemporary stories, music, and art.
local groups and individuals include john graves, pagosa springs pre-schoolers, a senior center barbershop quartet, paul arrendell, father john bowe, and a trio of ladies: susie long, judy patton and mary jo howell.
we will have activities for all ages, and remember you'll be able to dance to  the very popular johnny mogambo band coming in from vail especially for our  little picnic/party.
they came in june 16 and provided info and a  demonstration on ways to assist the visually impaired.
in 2003, there were 9,858 human cases of west nile virus and 262 deaths.
yet unlike a century ago, local problem solving today has the potential of being impacted by a variety of national and global conditions that require the expertise and resources of the total university, and conversely, local decisions can much more quickly impact state, national and global issues.
patriotic sing-along set june 29
i have been asked to be the master of ceremonies for this fun event.
it's more about having fun, and improvement.
look at this year's local relay for life effort - over $53,000 was raised  in this community to help cancer patients and to continue the funding of cancer  research.
to date we have rocky mountain reefs and ponds, animan the mobile groomer, the invisible fence and pagosa photography.
the folks at la plata electric  have been helping us for years now with these blasted flags of ours with never  a word of complaint, and i want to thank them for being such incredibly good  and generous friends.
the fire restrictions do not include charcoal fires (in suitable containers) for barbecues or fires for sweat ceremonies; however, such fires should not be left unattended and should be fully extinguished after use - fireworks - possession, discharging, or use of any type of fireworks is prohibited.
she worked as a telephone operator for southwestern bell telephone co., and as a homemaker.
i'll tell you if you don't know: zip,  zero, nada.
edible, medicinal plant walk slated the san juan mountains association and san juan public lands are sponsoring a free edible and medicinal plant walk 6-7 p.m. wednesday, june 30, at the junction creek trailhead.
quilt fest's educational segment aimed at youth by shari pierce and robbye reedy special to the preview each year at quilt fest, the pagosa piecemakers include an educational  component to the show.
writers of the southwest - this course will explore the diverse voices and  genres of contemporary southwestern literature.
recently i was dining in one of my favorite haunts.
pagosa lakes newspagosa lakes news volunteerism shows its mettle by keeping the economy going by ming steen sun columnist pagosa lakes property owners association's third annual garage sale was a huge one.
the new waterworks improvement is nearing completion this week.
they explained that the  pagosa children's theatre audition will have two parts: first, aspiring young actors are asked to choose their favorite animal and  be prepared to act as that animal without sound for one minute.
we are simply delighted to announce that don mckeehan of old west press agreed to come on board for the next six months.
for the rest of the year, trophies or other equipment prizes are awarded instead of money.
last year the group traveled to washington, d.c., where they  were featured in a concert on the steps of the lincoln memorial.
"carousel," "the king and  i," "south pacific" and "the sound of music," each  production from this team had the courage to include subtle implications of  such controversial subjects as race prejudice, spousal abuse, and intolerance -  reflecting social concerns of these decades.
"we know everyone who comes will enjoy this concert and the characters in the story.
nonmembers are welcome, and the cost is $15 per person with tickets available  at the gallery in town park.
with 28 competitors, winning a skin is a very difficult thing to do.
burial was in faith  memorial cemetery of delhi.
as far as making the connection between the two, planning commission chairman rice reavis said, the connection point lies outside town boundaries.
as of wednesday morning, he was listed in stable condition in the neurological intensive care unit.
i've gone about half a mile beyond the fall creek waterfall, and it's taken  almost an hour, when i reach the first crossing of fourmile creek.
" nesler and others said native cutthroat populations are making a slow and steady recovery because of the creation of new wild populations, the creation of captive populations in state hatcheries for stocking purposes, and interagency collaboration on goals and strategies among federal and state wildlife biologists in colorado, utah, wyoming, and new mexico.
lucero was airlifted to the university of new mexico hospital in albuquerque.
the black hills fire use module, a team of seven fire specialists from south dakota, is conducting air and ground reconnaissance to monitor fire behavior, spread and smoke.
our adult softball leagues continue in full "swing" with six men's and five coed teams doing battle each monday and wednesday night.
watercolor - beginners ii, aug. 11-13, with denny rose and virginia  bartlett.
partway up you get a different view of  the falls and the u-shaped glacier-cut valley behind you.
i've been hiking alone this summer.
the community choir sang and high schoolers samantha ricker and christine morrison soloed with voices echoing eerily off the river banks.
construction update
written public comments will be accepted until sep. 13, 2004, and can be mailed to northern san juan basin cbm eis, usda fs content analysisteam, p.o. box 221150, salt lake city, ut 84122.
still, it was the individual messages which of participants which set the tone for the day, special short statements about what hospice had meant to the speakers and why they were participants.
in addition to local talent, a visiting youth choir will sing several patriotic medleys.
arts educators paul and carla roberts draw upon children's innate creative abilities and help them develop artistic skills in fun ways.
monday-friday, aug. 2-6, 1-4 p.m. opportunities for artists artists alpine holiday in ouray, aug. 7-14.
while i realize the increase in risk associated with the chopstick use is  negligible, especially in pagosa, i find this study a good excuse to eat more  finger foods.
back to the subject of volunteerism - it's a powerful thing.
all animals in the adoption program are spayed/neutered, have current vaccinations, permanent microchip identification and more.
payments are made for blm administered lands, national forests, parks, and wildlife refuges; land used for federal water projects; and some military installations.
hotshot and i camped here once with the scouts, over 15 years ago.
schweickert said encouraging youth and families to take up archery is part of the club's goal.
to help the audience enjoy this experience even more, mischa semanitzky will demonstrate the various instruments.
we will open the bids by the end of  july.
the pagosa  piecemakers quilt guild sponsors quilt fest 2004.
we stand around for awhile, admiring the miracle of  american engineering and the guys urge me to "break it in and get the  paint off the burners.
kolecki said cutthroats are more sensitive to poorer water quality.
trained wildlife officers and licensed wildlife rehabilitators can collect the animal with the least possible impact.
if you have ideas to share this is a great time to speak up.
for the second year, the humane society is calling for a reunion of all who have adopted pets from this shelter or any other.
jody lawrence was second with 70, josie hummel third with a 71 and robyn alspach fourth with a 73.
writers of the southwest - this course will explore the diverse voices and genres of contemporary southwestern literature.
a long term fire analyst (ltan) is assigned to the fire and is working to predict long term fire behavior, and to model and map possible future fire growth.
events today - game day, 1-3 p.m., mexican dominoes, canasta, bingo (with prizes)  or whatever game you'd like to play friday, june 25 -
"if anyone is interested," she said, "please consider this a plea for help." anyone willing to serve should call the clerk's office, 264-8350 or 264-8354, and leave their name and telephone number as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the flying burrito for its donation of meal gift certificates to the teen center.
"they require some thought.
an assistant holds the twins.
then he pulls up  the rope with all his might.
by john graves special to the sun "the hills are alive š," the pagosa springs music boosters'  original musical revue to be presented july 8-10, offers a rare opportunity for  families to experience a half century of america's unique culture, as expressed  through its show music written by composer richard rodgers.
they may also decide to buy condos "up there" instead of down here.
i decided to go a little farther, see how the trail was.
the cooperative extension system is a living, evolving, market-driven organization that responds to society's changing needs.
you need a new grill."
the entertainment stage will be set up on the soccer practice field, with  grass seating throughout the practice field area.
but i don't like to grill that often.
thank you all for your memberships.
the council is your  organization.
extension viewpoints more relevant today than ever
testament, a choir composed of 30 high schoolers, is from first united methodist church, arlington, texas, and will be here as part of its summer tour.
runners and walkers will follows hot springs boulevard out light plant road to the turnaround and back to town park.
but, no." "a brandon wheat kings t-shirt?
during this program glenn raby, chimney rock site manager, will describe supernovas, the northern lunar standstill, and other astronomical events as they relate to chimney rock.
" samuel kittinger samuel "sam" clay kittinger died in his pagosa springs home on june 15, 2004.
alley said friday he will be a candidate for reelection.
it takes considerable confidence to love a cat - one moment they are cuddling up looking for love and the next they are up and away, tail and nose in air - leaving you thinking, "what have i done wrong?"
new director you may or may not be aware that nan rowe recently resigned her position as  a chamber of commerce board director to pursue interests in the political arena.
reservations are required for all events.
"they are high-maintenance fish, but they are important high-maintenance fish," kolecki said.
second, entrants will be asked to spontaneously pantomime a role chosen  from "peter" with the music playing.
she is a member of the national watercolor society and a signature member  of both the mississippi watercolor society and the wisconsin watercolor  society.
as well as related areas of concern, said van patter, "we looked at the number-one concern of archuleta county citizens, which is 'responsible management of growth.'
following millions of turbulent years and many successive violent transformations, it exploded.
the trail was bad then, but at least you could still call it a trail.
the rising of the moon in its progressive phases between the rock spires of chimney rock was probably of profound significance to its early ancestral puebloan residents.
entry forms must be received no later than aug. 2.
local extension professionals apply  their expertise and connect community residents to the resources of the  nation's great teaching and research universities to help solve  locally-identified problems.
just as one does not have to be a tree-hugging environmentalist to appreciate the beauty here, or know that if we do not help preserve our beautiful place, there will only be another big city with too many buildings, asphalt, pollution, and times when one cannot burn in one's fireplace for heat.
this program is free to the public, and free flags provided by the chamber of commerce and the community center will be given to all who attend.
no, the judge isn't suffering short-term memory loss.
the cooperative extension system today is very much about ensuring continued leadership in agriculture and the stewardship of our nation's land and other natural resources; creation of confident, public-service-oriented citizens through the 4-h youth development program and adult leadership training; the strengthening of families and the viability of communities.
earlier, nicholas berg was kidnapped in iraq and beheaded.
the trail was bad then, but at least you could  still call it a trail.
winners for age 7 and up: rachel allen, caitlin cameron, jacqueline garcia,  annastasia hersom, zack irons, jaime kirkland, nacole martinez, reyes mcginnis,  ben miller, jordan neuleib, melanie robles, paige rosebeck, courtney spears and  aisha warren.
no backcountry hiker should go unprepared by katherine cruse sun columnist last week someone strayed from the fourmile creek trail and got lost in the  woods.
many thanks to the 32 volunteers who showed up to help at the plpoa newsletter social.
we are simply delighted to announce that don mckeehan of old west press  agreed to come on board for the next six months.
" "so we can have a place to put the new grill?
although it was tasty, it was anything but true chile.
the hillside is steep, and there's room  to duck down and scramble under it.
it is filled with personal comments on post-it notes that have great suggestions of what one should do while there.
please plan to join us saturday morning to celebrate our wonderful four-legged furry friends.
next, she wove the research and the quilt story into history lessons for her students.
in 1924 family members brought it in a covered wagon to portales,  n.m.
most likely to the nearest hospital, either in del norte or alamosa.
the trail ahead might be full of snow and downed trees.
""i will be in at 6  a.m. to show you how to really make chile, honey."
artwork must be delivered to ouray community center, 340 6th ave., aug. 2 between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. this year's judge is ralph w. lewis, retired professor emeritus of the university of new mexico.
the average low was 39.
do you want to  know more about the arts council?
at least, not to the extent you presume will help business and salaries.
this is your opportunity to highlight the work and important contributions of those individuals who work every day to make a difference in your community.
bring your dd form 214 (discharge) for  registration with the county, application for va programs, and for filing in  the vso office.
treasure falls highway job halts july 2-5 by tess noel baker staff writer the road construction project near treasure falls will shut down from july 2-july 5 to accommodate holiday traffic.
once the igniter  went out i lost interest.
but, they nearly always call.
john faber gives resignation dear editor: i regretfully offer my resignation to this board (health services district) &emdash; i believe i am letting down the thousands who voted for me twice by doing so, as those are the folks i represent.
gate opens 5:50-6 a.m.
division officials said colorado could not have progressed as far and as quickly as it did without the cooperation of the u.s. forest service and the bureau of land management.
the canine 9k starts at 8 a.m. with a 7-7:45 check-in and late registration.
saturday calls for partly-cloudy skies, highs in the 75-85 range and lows in the 40s.
you've seen this  episode of cheaters ten times if you've seen it once.
incidentally, two of their songs were banned from the radio, for the sake of "common decency."
monday-friday, july 19-23, 10 a.m.-noon.
plus, i'll buy you one of those cute aprons.
best of show went to maureen may for her mixed media painting, "no matthew 5:9 (the geography lesson)"; juror's choice was jan goldman's pastel painting "guardian of trout lake"; and the merit award went to ed kruse for his pastel drawing, "winter valley sunset.
the 18th national veterans golden age games, a national sports and recreational competition sponsored by the department of veterans affairs (va), will take place july 18-23 at the fresno convention center and other area venues.
there it sits, a snazzy three-burner with porcelain-coated racks and a nifty little gas ring on the side that charlie's friend calls a "bean cooker."
although most are veterans of world war ii and the korean war, increasing numbers of vietnam-era veterans are participating in this annual nationwide competition.
it is a threat of our own making.
do you realize how many times  they've had us over and all you do is put off an invitation.
also included in this program will be the parade of colors by local  veterans as well as pagosa musicians john graves, father john bowe, a  barbershop quartet from the senior center and a ladies trio.
he worked as an instrument specialist in long beach, calif., and was a member of the eagles fraternal organization.
" what did you do before you arrived here?
r.c. and ruth's family expanded to include 16 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
as campbell said, the collective spirit embodied by the generation that  fought and helped win world war ii is not as evident today, that spirit  assailed by simple-minded partisan thinking.
something like 'king  of the grill' or 'i be grillin' while you be chillin'.
this is a free event featuring a reenactment of the mountain  man era with black powder shoots, knife and hawk throws, novelty shoots, games,  primitive dress and camping and traders.
the rest of the bridge has been missing for many years.
"we have those that just like to come out and shoot and those that prepare for the hunt, but the main point is to have fun together."
as campbell said, the collective spirit embodied by the generation that fought and helped win world war ii is not as evident today, that spirit assailed by simple-minded partisan thinking.
now that we have the ability and the technology to address these situations, it's part of our mission to save them.
in 1916 he journeyed cross the lone star state, on an iron wheel wagon his family found their fate.
the meat and marinade go into the fridge for five or six hours prior to hitting the grill.
the handprint is thought to  mark a sacred site according to the pueblo tradition.
"students can participate to make money on their own or for a school function.
madrid said the county did not receive enough names from the caucus process from either party and "we are in dire need of democrat judges in some precincts.
the rate for smaller fish is $3.10 per pound.
elation center for the arts is offering music and dance classes for children, mondays at pagosa lakes clubhouse.
she started the season short three tricks in her bar routine, but mastered  those efforts as the season wore on to bring her score up considerably.
monday-friday, july 19-23, 9:30 a.m.-12:30  p.m. with a full-day field trip thursday, july 22.
landfill fire flares three times, cause undetermined by tess noel baker staff writer a fire at the landfill on trujillo road flared up three times early this week before being extinguished.
"we have made some extraordinary progress in six years," said sherman hebein, division senior fish biologist, referring to colorado river cutthroat recovery efforts.
because native cutthroat trout have become less common than other salmonids, many anglers search for opportunities to catch them.
participants have the option to  create their spiritual autobiography in solitude or within a small group  setting.
robbye reedy, educational booth  director, has worked with her friends and fellow quilters to design an exciting  experience for us all.
similar forecasts for sunday through tuesday include predictions of mostly-clear conditions, highs around 80 and lows in the mid-40s.
by john graves special to the sun "the hills are alive ," the pagosa springs music boosters' original musical revue to be presented july 8-10, offers a rare opportunity for families to experience a half century of america's unique culture, as expressed through its show music written by composer richard rodgers.
" "i thought you wanted me to pick a color for the chairs and the  umbrella.
they came in june 16 and provided info and a demonstration on ways to assist the visually impaired.
mercy and i have been friends for many years, so i consider it a great honor that she asked me to be emcee.
one suggestion that received mainly favorable feedback was the possibility of sending members of planning staff and the planning commission to idaho to gain a firsthand account of the pros and cons of the fremont county system.
this was  the last performance of the kuba before it was closed.
you will find a variety of spa-massage and healing modalities.
(there's a "wobble" in the plane of the moon's elliptical orbit, which causes this irregular path.)
she also placed second in floor exercise with a 9.05, third on beam with 8.6, fourth on bars with 8.55 and fourth in vault with 8.3.
in the spring when mud was too deep for sleighs, the horses were saddled and often carried two each.
mercy korsgren, community center director, is delighted to organize this communitywide gathering to celebrate our national heritage and is hopeful this will become an annual event in pagosa.
"the hours are long," madrid said, "from 6 a.m. to approximately 9 p.m."
ancestral puebloans occupied this area approximately a thousand years ago.
on july 3 and 4 the show will be open from 11 a.m.-7 p.m. and on july 4 it will be open from 11 a.m.-4 p.m.
other performers also entertaining the audience at family festivo in town park will be local performers including jana burch's tap dancers, jennifer martin's gymnastics group and stephanie jones' san juan dance academy.
paving is set to begin the week of july 12.
it's still early in the day and i can walk across them without sinking in.
george pointed to mccloskey's more than 30 years of experience in wildlife management, as well as his already-established relationships with dow employees, as aspects that made him a desirable candidate for his new position.
the book is "the inextinguishable symphony," a true story of music and love in nazi germany.
you will also find registration forms at the chamber of  commerce, the community center, the senior center or the csu extension office.
other counties, madrid said, see elections as a good opportunity for organizations to make money.
and so we can be thankful that music in the mountains reached us.
i'll be there at 8 a.m. to cut the ribbon to begin the 9k race with all  other events scheduled to begin at 9 a.m.
in the meadow, peter meets the bird and the duck.
you will also find registration forms at the chamber of commerce, the community center, the senior center or the csu extension office.
the rising of the moon in its progressive phases between the rock spires of  chimney rock was probably of profound significance to its early ancestral  puebloan residents.
we also hope they will be encouraged to learn  more about great music and the many instruments that bring it to life.
the other two help determine scores.
there will not  be room for it when we enclose the new children's area.
this piece has a curved front and hand-turned  legs that use the "trumpet and bun" motifs popular at the end of the  19th century.
in addition, seniors acquiring pets through the program report feeling happier and safer.
" state's native trout subspecies gaining population by todd malmsbury special to the sun after years of recovery work and challenges that have included wildfires and a prolonged drought, colorado division of wildlife officials are reporting good progress in creating new populations of colorado river, rio grande, and greenback cutthroat trout both in the wild and at state hatcheries.
r.c. williams funeral services for r. c. williams, 91, of delhi, la., were at 2 p.m.  wednesday, june 23, 2004, at the cox funeral home in delhi.
" "up." "where am i going?" "to look at a new gas grill.
for more information, call 264-2209.
i finally  got tired of the explosions and the smell of burning hair."
noaa is dedicated to enhancing economic security and national safety through the prediction and research of weather and climate related events and providing environmental stewardship of the nation's coastal and marine resources.
this year's fair dates are thursday, aug. 5 through sunday, aug. 8, and ronnie will be happy to hear from you at 264-6122 if you are interested in lending a hand.
my guidebook says  they can be difficult until "midsummer."
county clerk issues plea for poll judges by richard walter staff writer the archuleta county clerk's office has issued a call for precinct polling place judges for upcoming elections.
what a fun group of folks we are now serving in the southwest corner of the county.
a multiple entry pass will be available for an additional $1.
imagine how profound an experience it would be for even an amateur astronomer to discover a new star in the sky.
that's why i haven't grilled for two years.
" fire restrictions in effect for southern ute lands due to continuing drought conditions, stage i fire restrictions have been implemented for all trust lands throughout the southern ute indian reservation.
however, we have received a donation of a gem of a travel guide, annotated  with the best places to go in new orleans.
we will have activities for all ages, and remember you'll be able to dance to the very popular johnny mogambo band coming in from vail especially for our little picnic/party.
calling all our great cooks to not delay, you may be the new winner of the  red, green, or in between category.
please note the time of the event.
the humane society of pagosa springs invites you, your family and your pets to join them in town park for their annual pet pride day celebration saturday, june 26.
survivors include his son, robert kittinger; a brother, gerald kittinger of  silverton, ore., and friend eddie arteche of buena park, calif. funeral services were held 11 a.m. saturday, june 29, 2004 at pagosa  funeral options.
she was referring to the broken finger suffered by veteran shelby stretton which left her unable to compete this season.
he was quite old, a civil war veteran who had come to riverside to retire.
now it's not recommended for stock.
" "look out on the deck.
you will learn how to channel  your emotions into a meaningful work of art that is fun, therapeutic and  aesthetically pleasing.
i am going to push this baby to its limits.
local veterans local veteran ron gustafson will do a special patriotic reading, and bruce muirhead will lead the pledge of allegiance.
the handprint is thought to mark a sacred site according to the pueblo tradition.
be sure you don't miss out on  the fun and yummy food and join us at our next picnic in the park in july.
june 28-30 - amy rosner, expressing yourself in mixed media workshop, all  day july 1 - joye moon reception for the artist at the gallery in town park ,  5-7 p.m. july 1-28 - joye moon exhibit at the gallery july 5-8 - joye moon workshop, unleashing the power of watercolor, all day july 8 - photo club, 5:30 p.m. july 14 - watercolor club, 9:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m.
this week i'm going to recommend a book in recognition of the music in the mountains summer season.
ms. van antwerp's great-grandmother, adelia dehart, hurriedly prepared the quilt top by hand to hang outside her family's farmhouse identifying it as a safe house on the underground railroad.
"if you find a baby animal, and you don't see any signs of the mother, contain your pets, and leave the baby animal alone where it is," said division wildlife manager perry will, who dealt with two wildlife "pickups" last week.
she started the season short three tricks in her bar routine, but mastered those efforts as the season wore on to bring her score up considerably.
the humane society also has planned for your enjoyment and benefit: blessing of the animals, pet inoculations, microchipping, a llamas obstacle demonstration, a canine good citizenship evaluation, a presentation about wolves, a breed showcase, pet massage, homemade dog biscuits, pet photographs, face painting, and, of course, contest for every imaginable type of pet, including a best pet photo contest judged by a professional photographer finally, for information about volunteering to help make this a fun day, call pauline benetti, 264-5232.
the survey is most likely not in final form, said baker.
given time, you will also read about the "soiled doves" and painted ladies of the dusty cowboys and wild mountain miners and how they lived through their first fortunes and hard times.
total precipitation for the month was .40 inches, which is well under normal.
actually, i  think, chauncey doesn't have it all that bad.
need it to fuel the economy.
the average high temperature recorded last week in pagosa springs was 77 degrees.
she had a close fight with a gymnast from the  aerials (home team for the event in colorado springs) losing by one tenth of a  point.
this bonding process generally makes it too dangerous to return the animals to the wild.
this area of the show is directed toward children; however, adults often find this section of the show very enjoyable too.
i want to buy it and give it to you as your father's day present.
rotary respectfully requests that water guns and air horns stay at home and that parade participants not throw candy or anything at all from the floats.
by richard walter staff writer second place.
she said,  "i don't think they've ever caught anything."
as an acknowledgment of these folks, a group picture by a professional photographer is scheduled.
and they deserve the thanks of the society and the community at large.
the calf had been found right in the middle of colorado highway 139, the winding road that crosses douglas pass.
"the girl friend," (which is included in  "the hills are alive...") used the word "hell" once as a  "throwaway" expletive.
it is a sign of progress in the growth of the community and one that it is hoped will solve the water problems for some time to come.
the media bears as much blame as the political strategists who spend their days creating more garish, more outrageous characterizations of opponents.
with its university faculty  and staff serving the states and territories-most located in the over 3,000  counties across the country, the county extension office is truly the front  door to america's land-grant universities.
you've got the dialogue memorized.
"the girl friend," (which is included in "the hills are alive...") used the word "hell" once as a "throwaway" expletive.
you  will also study the work of writers ranging from henry david thoreau to john  muir to isak dinesen and such contemporary authors as barry lopez, terry  tempest williams and david quammen.
"they don't hurt a bit.
cultural heritage can be expressed in unique quilting techniques, choice of colors, and designs.
after being appointed by the county commissioners jan. 20, the task force began meeting with marcus baker, associate county planner, on a weekly basis after an initial session feb. 12 "to explore ways of implementing the community plan's land-use regulations," said van patter.
this is the first of three crossings of fourmile creek.
the new grill has several manageable heat zones, so i will learn to work  with them.
in larger counties different companies provide the appropriate judges as do civic organizations."
pets for people matches seniors with free pets the purina pets for people program works with the humane society of pagosa springs and participating humane organizations to offer companion animals to qualified senior citizens, 60 years of age or older, free-of-charge.
these acceptable forms of identification must show a colorado address.
vendors will also be present from  various restaurants in town to offer items from their menu.
once the igniter went out i lost interest.
for the first time this year, the national veterans golden age games will serve as a qualifier for the national senior olympics, to be held june 3-8, 2005, in pittsburgh.
monday - thursday, july 19-22, 3-5 p.m. introduction to black and white photography - this seven-week course will help you develop an eye for black and white subjects, shooting techniques, and focusing on tonality and texture, in a world full of color.
""i will be in at 6 a.m. to show you how to really make chile, honey."
presenting the research involved were members off the citizens task force, the eight-member committee charged with evaluating new options for county land-use alternatives based on information compiled by county planning staff during a series of related focus groups conducted last fall.
volunteers from the club gather the day before a shoot to set up the range, using atvs to transport the target animals from where they are heaped when resting to their spots on the course.
food for thought fire up the grill; no wheat kings shirts this father's day
what do you see?" "besides the rotting boards and the section of deck that seems ready  to collapse at any moment?
how about dorothy and  larry?
sing-along sheets will be provided to all as the audience joins in singing familiar patriotic music.
that accident occurred on u.s. 160 near fosset gulch road.
whether it's computer or phone related, he can offer you great customer service in the areas of repair, upgrades, networking and tutoring.
some on hand said they feel making the survey easier to comprehend might reduce the time involved to fill it out, thereby encouraging greater public participation.
my youngest daughter ivy is due in town and she's a fan of zippy eats.
the nazis had formed the kulturbund as a public distraction and a comfort for remaining jews in the late '30s.
creative courses the fort lewis college extended studies program is offering the following  courses.
" music is masterful.
in 1999, colorado joined other state, federal and private entities in signing the tri-state colorado river cutthroat trout conservation agreement with utah and wyoming.
i've contemplated adding a whistle, to blow if i think there's anyone in  the area.
no backcountry hiker should go unprepared by katherine cruse sun columnist last week someone strayed from the fourmile creek trail and got lost in the woods.
it is love until the last moment.
call 731-8060 to reserve a spot for only $25.
my guidebook says they can be difficult until "midsummer."
i'm going to extract from this book their experience rehearsing and  performing "symphony no. 2, resurrection" by gustave mahler that's  available on cd at sisson library.
somehow, we got onto the  subject of red and green chile.
this design provides high strength in a delicate and light  form suitable for exhibiting jewelry.
as well, there will be games  for children and free food for all beginning at noon, after the entertainment.
it touches  each of our senses and affects our intellectual and emotional beings.
the pagosa ranger district rates the area fire danger as "very high."
so i decide on a simple blend: olive oil, lemon  juice or red wine vinegar, thyme, bay leaf, salt, pepper, a measure of ground  red chile, sliced onion.
"there may be the chance for a few mountain storms, but we're not looking at much in the way of rain for the pagosa area," concluded colton.
durango va clinic the durango va outpatient clinic is at 400 south camino del rio, suite g,  durango, co 81301.
the messages are upbeat, the story of love, of suffering made easier by the people of hospice of pagosa springs.
class size is limited to provide each participant individualized  instruction.
many thanks to the 32 volunteers who showed up to help at the plpoa  newsletter social.
arts linearts line join the board at psac annual meeting tonight
by karl isberg "father's day is just around the corner.
let's call it three grand, plus fifty or so bucks, firm."
it was much larger than the sun and about 6,300 light years from earth.
he warns peter about the wolf.
the  program is run by local volunteers in partnership with the forest service.
girl's softball girls 9-14 interested in playing softball this summer, call myles gabel at  264-4151, ext.
prevent new batches by draining birdbaths, flowerpots and any other items that may collect water - when spending time outdoors during mosquito season, use a topical insect repellent to keep potentially dangerous mosquitoes at bay.
the best part is that pets are invited - the one event of the year where every kid (and parent) can feel secure that their pup or pet snake or goat or whatever is welcome.
team member casey crow pulled a hamstring in the last regular season meet  and was unable to participate at state but showed her team spirit by marching  in with the team and staying on the sidelines for moral support during the  entire competition.
" "first, i'm not sure i need a new gas grill.
the sun crews monitor middle fork fire northwest of pagosa springs by tess noel baker staff writer a wildland fire burning 19 miles northwest of pagosa springs in the weminuche wilderness has grown to about 40 acres since it was first reported june 15.
hiring officials the recreation department continues to seek individuals interested in  officiating baseball, volleyball, soccer or basketball.
(the second full moon occurring in any month is called the "blue moon," thus the expression "once in a blue moon.")
i'll give you a web site address and you can order me the black shirt, with the stylized wheat sheaf, and the gray shirt with 'property of brandon wheat kings' emblazoned on the front.
the applicant, john ranson, of pagosa partners, llc, said full development will occur in several phases over eight or 10 years.
he is preceded in death by his  "gal", wife ruth; son, roddy; and grandson robert.
here are some of the situations one might encounter on election day, as a judge or a voter.
many volunteers pitched in before, during and after the meal and it all came off without a hitch - except i broke the coffee carafe.
anlaug adams is our volunteer driver who gets that meal delivered piping hot from pagosa springs and then volunteers in the kitchen or wherever she is needed.
"i enjoy my co-workers and the good working atmosphere.
'the hills are alive ...' focuses on america's developing culture
i guess you can't say we don't have any fun at the den!
picnic in the park picnic in the park was a blast as usual, a tad bit windy, but none the less  a good time was had by all.
in-step dance club sets july schedule in-step dance club has scheduled four july classes featuring country western swing ii (and polka).
i felt so good when i reached this spot that i entertained the notion of continuing on up the trail to the top of the other waterfall, the fourmile creek one, and then going on to fourmile lake.
contact myles gabel if you are interested.
the duck jumps out of the pond and the wolf chases the duck!
you will start with willa cather's classic, "death comes for the archbishop" and make your way through ellen meloy's "raven's exile", barbara kingsolver's, "animal dreams", terry tempest williams' "unspoken hunger", and the work of native writers paula gunn allen, joy harjo, leslie marmon silko and linda hogan.
if you do win, you can say that you make  the best chile in town and have a prize to prove it!
tour  begins at 5:30 sunrise is 5:53.
as a result, the portion of the san juan between the u.s. 84-160 intersection and the footbridge behind the county courthouse is ripe for angling exploration.
competing for the level 5's were re'ahna ray (raesha's younger sister), sienna stretton and toni stoll and each brought home a state medal.
stories of hispanic culture in new mexico from tierra amarillo, native american poet and musician joy harjo, and essayists terry tempest williams, wallace stegner, and frank waters will round up the best of the southwest.
" west nile is a real threat in this country.
what to produce on the test drive, on the eve of father's day?
i'll buy a  rack to use when i grill fish, some skewers for prissy work.
" "three hundred sixty-two dollars and thirty-two cents.
reserve your spot now by contacting psac at 264-5020.
bring your favorite dessert to share with others.
none of the men were wearing seat belts.
the problem may lie not in losing their business because of the "texas issue," but in them deciding they like it "up here" better!
we are in danger of losing our foundation, of losing the very things our  enemies hate, if we continue to buy into a vision of a radically polarized  america.
quilt fest 2004 will be held july 2, 3 and 4 in the mamie lynch gymnasium  at the corner of lewis and 4th streets.
entrance to the show will be via the doors on fourth street.
no qi gong today; celebrate june birthdays, noon; free movie day - "hidalgo," 1 p.m. monday, june 28 -11-1:00 medicare counseling, 11 a.m.-1 p.m.; bridge for fun, 1 p.m.;
"the risks associated with proper use of pesticides are so low that one cannot document any lasting effects," says james.
how much fun is it that one man's trash  could be another man's treasure?
"we rely on these programs to replace lost tax revenue dollars that go toward everything from roads to schools and social services.
then consider how it must have impacted ancestral puebloans, whose very life, religion and culture were dominated by perceptions of the positions and movements of celestial bodies.
the  exhibit consists of recent artwork created especially for the council.
a friend of mine sniffs at my sense of thrift and calls it a "sign of personal virtue and not much more."
"we are hoping this will become an annual patriotic experience for our community," said mercy korsgren, center coordinator.
i finally got tired of the explosions and the smell of burning hair."
groundbreaking could be scheduled very soon.
it is constantly attempting to maintain a balance between two titanic forces: the immense gravity of its mass, which is trying to compress and crush it, and the gigantic outward pressure of the nuclear fusion at the core, which is trying to blow it apart.
we always have cake for dessert on the last friday of every month to celebrate all the month's birthdays.
oh, incidentally, if i owe you a meal, don't hold your breath waiting for the invitation.
"she was a great performer for us all season and had it not been for a season-ending injury to a teammate, we might have been even stronger."
anlaug adams is our volunteer driver who gets that meal  delivered piping hot from pagosa springs and then volunteers in the kitchen or  wherever she is needed.
it had no mosquito management programs in place when the mosquito season began.
we will read and discuss two seminal novels of our region, ron querry's "the death of bernadette lefthand" and leslie marmo silko's "ceremony" as well as edward abbey's classic, "desert solitaire."
tickets are $10 - monday, oct. 4 - moon rise preview.
fair volunteers please keep in mind that ronnie doctor is still looking for volunteers for  this year's county fair and would love to receive a call from you.
it is the most advanced weather and flood warning and forecast system in the world, helping to protect lives and property and enhance the national economy.
alley will seek return to lpea district 1 seat one district 1 seat, currently held by terry alley of pagosa springs, is among four on the september ballot for la plata electric association.
a colorado resident for 35 years, mccloskey received a b.s. in wildlife management from colorado state university and a master's degree in public administration from the university of colorado.
elation center for arts creativity develops naturally through the arts.
"many times, you just go out there against yourself, and ask yourself are you getting better?" at the hunt in june many had finished their first round of shooting around the lunch hour.
she was referring to the broken finger suffered by veteran shelby stretton  which left her unable to compete this season.
about a mile into the hike i met two dogs and their owner, heading back.
as independence day and the november elections near,  we need to remind ourselves, despite the noise of negative campaigns and  libelous discourse, that we are all american, that we have an enemy and it is  not each other.
like the full set of girls gone wild dvds or a roulette bet the next time we go to vegas?" "the apron will have a cute saying printed on it.
fortunately, an emergency mosquito-spraying program implemented in late august helped bring a quick end to the epidemic.
we are grateful to nan for the two and a half years she served on this board and wish her well in her new endeavors.
the wolf catches the duck and swallows it in  a single gulp!
parks & rec fireworks show will be july 4 at high school sports complex
local chatterlocal chatter music - a precious art form with special powers by kate terry sun columnist june 25
raesha ray, pagosa's upper level optional gymnast, placed second in the all-around for children 13 and younger with a 34.90.
i'll warm flour tortillas in a foil pack, slice some avocados (unless the market is selling those window breakers that take three years to ripen) and tomato, chop some cilantro leaves, break out a melange of shredded cheeses and unleash the last of a batch of fine homemade salsa.
an assistant holds the  twins.
there is only one more week to go.
need  it to fuel the economy.
232 for more details or to reserve a spot for this exciting event.
give brad a call at 731-9115 to learn more about integrity computers and phone systems.
you know that, don't you?" "so what?
awards were also given for closest to the pin (also known as "greenies") on each of the four par three holes.
by joe lister jr. sun columnist there have been several calls about when and where this year's fourth of  july fireworks show will be held.
the community  center will provide hot and cold beverages.
the association sent its eight low handicap golfers to play cortez  conquistador club june 17 and picked up 38 points in match play against dalton  ranch golf club of durango.
as independence day and the november elections near, we need to remind ourselves, despite the noise of negative campaigns and libelous discourse, that we are all american, that we have an enemy and it is not each other.
the cost  is $130 or $123.50 for psac members.
the pagosa bow club welcomes new members and guests.
however, we have received a donation of a gem of a travel guide, annotated with the best places to go in new orleans.
winners for age 7 and up: rachel allen, caitlin cameron, jacqueline garcia, annastasia hersom, zack irons, jaime kirkland, nacole martinez, reyes mcginnis, ben miller, jordan neuleib, melanie robles, paige rosebeck, courtney spears and aisha warren.
this is a simple process: the veggies get grilled, each timed according to  its needs, then get plopped on the upper rack over low heat, next to the  tortillas.
studies have shown that pet companionship may actually improve senior citizen health and outlook on life.
the closest i got to chile was my mother's version with beans, meat and  sauce.
some said such a code allows the proper amount of flexibility, others said it allows too much flexibility/mitigation and is arbitrary.
was this a spiritual site?
"spirit walker - poems by nancy wood, and paintings by frank howell," speaks eloquently of the courage, determination and powerful spiritual faith of native americans.
for information call deb aspen at 946-1081.
he possessed great knowledge, love and devotion to his family, and the lord's spirit was in his heart.
raised moulding around the drawer front adds depth and interesting shading in  low angle light.
registration deadline is july 2 .
other performers also entertaining the audience at family festivo in town park will be local  performers including jana burch's tap dancers, jennifer martin's gymnastics  group and stephanie jones' san juan dance academy.
maps and a compass and a trail guide if it exists.
in 1924 family members brought it in a covered wagon to portales, n.m.
sessions will be held 9-11 .m.
new exhibit july 1 there will be no exhibit in the gallery at town park until  nationally-renowned artist joye moon opens her solo exhibit july 1.
clemison said she first participated in archery in high school.
it was much larger than the sun and  about 6,300 light years from earth.
nonmembers are welcome, and the cost is $15 per person with tickets available at the gallery in town park.
the light from this cataclysmic event reached earth 6,300 years later, on the  aforementioned fourth of july in 1054 a.d. (if you prefer to consider the  distance from the explosion to earth in actual miles, the figure is 40  quintillion.)
a first aid kit that includes a mylar space blanket and an ace bandage,  bandages and tape and antibiotic ointment.
amy rosner, ph.d. is a psychology of art teacher, visual attention researcher and lifetime artist.
"i have had the pleasure of working with bruce for the past four years through the dow, and for many years before that when i was in the legislature and he served as lead spokesman for the dow.
and sometimes floods can be devastating to the boats, the people and to nature.
another point to ponder: observers in chaco canyon saw the star in their northern sky, where it would appear to lead to chimney rock.
" "now?" "yes, right now.
"we hope everyone will  bring blankets and chairs and really have a fun time."
overall, approximately 25 million cloud-to-ground lightning strikes occur in the united states each year.
plan of action an integrated mosquito management program is the best way to contain the spread of the virus and prevent human infections, james says.
we always have cake for dessert on the last friday of  every month to celebrate all the month's birthdays.
with your new grill,  you can take that first, important step toward redeeming yourself.
thrift is un-american.
we are open from 1-8 p.m. weekdays.
i got a bid on the deck and
in addition there is continuing parade of programs planned from now until 2008 exploring the phenomenon of the northern lunar standstill as it impacts sightings at chimney rock.
of course they'd rather have been first, but pagosa's young gymnasts are proud of their team achievement.
"we are hoping this will become an annual patriotic experience for our  community," said mercy korsgren, center coordinator.
beginner to advanced artists are welcome.
see examples of the "colorado block" on display.
if you are able to  give a couple hours of time this summer it would be greatly appreciated.
finally, there is more good news for anglers planning to test the waters of the san juan this summer.
russell george, executive director of the colorado department of natural resources (dnr), announced the appointment june 16.
this area of the show is directed toward children;  however, adults often find this section of the show very enjoyable too.
our success was due in large part to our volunteer walkers  and volunteer donors.
as well, there will be games for children and free food for all beginning at noon, after the entertainment.
in the shade of the massive trunk  is the first patch of snow.
i hate creek crossings, anyway.
it is filled with personal comments  on post-it notes that have great suggestions of what one should do while there.
following the program, please plan to stay and enjoy a pot luck dessert and drinks provided by the community center.
that includes the entire perimeter of the fire; the area actually burning is spotty and much smaller.
monday-friday, aug. 2-6, 1-3 p.m. introduction to basic drawing - yes, you can learn to draw in five days.
information about the ancestral puebloan site will be available.
take note of web sites offering further information.
according to the latest snotel data, the snowpack level for the upper san juan river basin has reached minimum levels, with melt-out nearly completed.
he possessed great  knowledge, love and devotion to his family, and the lord's spirit was in his  heart.
" "dad of the decade.
there will be an all-day field trip on wednesday, july 21 to chaco  canyon.
carrizo, danny d. lyon and hillary m. wienpahl.
we'll continue to monitor those populations that have been impacted by the drought, and work as hard as we can to try to assist in their recovery.
the camp will be conducted by the pagosa pirate coaching staff, including  head coach penné hamilton, junior varsity coach connie o'donnell and  c-team coach norma schaffer.
rockies challenge the colorado rockies baseball skills challenge will take place 5 p.m. friday, june 25, at the sports complex on the campus of pagosa springs high school.
this is profoundly human stuff.
on the fourth of july there will be a special supernova sunrise program marking the 950th anniversary of the appearance of the crab nebula supernova.
she told me a true story about her experience  as a new restaurateur 14 years ago.
i'm sure you can easily fit into one of those categories and stand to win some dough if your group wins.
(there's a "wobble" in the plane of the moon's elliptical orbit,  which causes this irregular path.)
the nazis had formed the kulturbund as a public distraction and a comfort for  remaining jews in the late '30s.
however, three golfers managed net birdies or eagles to win skins in this competition.
i had hoped that the new board would want to include me in committee work, what with my past years of service and my first-hand experience from 12 years on the ambulance service; however, they have chosen to leave me out.
please plan to join us saturday  morning to celebrate our wonderful four-legged furry friends.
come out and root for your teams at the sports complex tuesday and  thursday.
the humane society of pagosa springs invites you, your family and your pets  to join them in town park for their annual pet pride day celebration saturday,  june 26.
she, too, was on hand at state for moral support and intends to perform  again next year.
center hours are 10 a.m.-5 p.m.
their children may do battle in order to  maintain our society.
it touches each of our senses and affects our intellectual and emotional beings.
john graves entertained the folks by playing some oldies but goodies and  many were heard singing along.
the schoolroom library includes interesting books for all age and interest  levels in which quilting is the central theme.
"even if someone wants to donate just a single fish, we'll take it."
"the veterans who participate in the games send a clear message that  exercise, fitness and a competitive spirit can help to defy the negative  effects of age, injury or illness," said edward s. banas sr.,  commander-in-chief of the veterans of foreign wars.
june 28-30 - amy rosner, expressing yourself in mixed media workshop, all day july 1 - joye moon reception for the artist at the gallery in town park , 5-7 p.m. july 1-28 - joye moon exhibit at the gallery july 5-8 - joye moon workshop, unleashing the power of watercolor, all day july 8 - photo club, 5:30 p.m. july 14 - watercolor club, 9:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m.
she used  this opportunity to explore incorporating collage and drawing techniques with  her paintings.
the recommendation concerns changes to a draft bulk-mailing survey designed to gather public input on aspects included in a proposed land-use code that has often been referred to as the "preferred alternative."
the restrictions became effective 8 a.m. june 16, and prohibit the following: - open burning - burning and/or yard waste is prohibited - agricultural burning - burning of crop land, fields, rangeland, debris burning, slash piles, prescribed burning and weed burning are prohibited - camp fires - building, maintaining or using a warming fire or camp fire outside of designated or developed camp sites is prohibited.
there will be an all-day field trip on wednesday, july 21 to chaco canyon.
thank you to carol from voc rehab and welcome to gail from the southwest center for independence.
in this  course, you will learn to evoke the essence of the natural world around us  through compelling, imaginative, and expressive writing - both prose and  poetry.
the office is open 8 a.m.-4 p.m., monday through thursday; friday by appointment.
during the month of may the government hunters in archuleta county made the following catches: bert b. turner, pagosa springs, 16 coyotes; albert h. turner, chromo, 11 coyotes and 1 lynx; g.d. fitzhugh, pagosa springs, 9 coyotes.
the team is currently third in the eight-team league and will host the next match july 22 at pagosa springs golf club.
the office will be open, but some routine maintenance and cleaning will happen during this time.
last year this group traveled to washington, d.c. where they were featured in a concert on the steps of the lincoln memorial under the direction of paul arrendell, son of the local resident beverly arrendell.
participants must have their own manual 35mm  camera and supply of film and processing.
call the silver foxes den senior center 264-2167 for more information.
then he pulls up the rope with all his might.
i  decide to flash grill a nice hunk of flank steak along with some peppers - one  red, one poblano - some white and green onions and a few spears of yellow  squash.
he ended up spending the night up there, before search and rescue found him the next day.
representing pagosa were jane stewart, jan kilgore, lyne allison, cherry  o'donnell, audrey johnson, doe stringer, loretta campuzano and josie hummel.
couples must have income of $16,862 or less, and singles $12,569 or less.
what are the most enjoyable and least enjoyable aspects of your job?
picture this: me, on the ground, on my  back amidst the wreckage.
taneesha is standing in the middle of the parking lot.
patrick manzanares was runner-up.
the park to park arts and crafts festival will take place on july 2, 3 and 4 along with the red ryder rodeo and the 2004 quilt fest to be held in the mamie lynch gymnasium.
the rockies baseball skills challenge is a competition allowing youngsters to showcase their talents in base running, batting and throwing with scores based on speed, distance and accuracy.
"i found something for you; i want you to check it out before i buy  it."
the author, martin goldsmith, is a radio  musicologist who is writing about his parents, gunther, a flutist, and his  mother, rosemary, a violinist who played in the nazi's kulturbund orchestra.
at-risk youth participate in school retention and enrichment programs.
i'll buy a rack to use when i grill fish, some skewers for prissy work.
r.c. williams was a traveling man; why, it was in a model a he took my grandma's hand.
this was the last performance of the kuba before it was closed.
it was a performing arts venue for jews.
by tom carosello staff writer want a chance to hook up with a double-digit rainbow trout without leaving city limits?
and then i head back down the trail.
the san juan river never reached flood stage during the spring melt, but it was mighty close at times.
the cooperative extension system is a living, evolving, market-driven  organization that responds to society's changing needs.
full moon programs at chimney rock begin near dusk, as you walk up to the  great house pueblo.
however, three golfers managed net birdies or eagles to win skins in this  competition.
but it is not enough," concluded mcinnis.
covered wagon winners 6 and under were: keaton anderson, brenton bowman, savannah brown, micaella church, kyle garcia, leeann hersom, blake irons, tristin johnson, mckinzee kelley, jude lindberg, ryan mcginnis, andie miller, kai wagner and kudra wagner.
the draft eis may also be viewed on the web: www.fs.fed.us/r2/sanjuan or www.nsjb-eis.org.
letters pagosa's blessing dear editor: this letter is in response to the letter of june 10 from richard brown of albuquerque, "wolf creek defense."
awards were also given for closest to the pin (also known as  "greenies") on each of the four par three holes.
his passing leaves behind a host of family and friends.
encourage local lawmakers to institute an integrated mosquito management program if there isn't one in your area.
for the first time this year, the national veterans golden age games will  serve as a qualifier for the national senior olympics, to be held june 3-8,  2005, in pittsburgh.
in lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to first baptist church for the first fruits program which provides for various needs of families in archuleta county.
sitting down to eat i  was greeted by the owner.
contact psac at  264-5020 or e-mail psac@centurytel.net.
precautions while mosquito prevention is a nationwide concern, there are some simple steps you can take to limit the spread and impact of the disease: - mosquitoes lay their eggs in standing water.
we are social pariahs.
the same cannot be said for the victims of west nile virus."
it is visible evidence of pagosa's faith.
after the hour-long concert, hot dogs, chips, ice cream, lemonade and water will be served free, thanks to the generosity of montezuma's restaurant, the springs, and jim and bonnie van bortel.
232 for more  details or to reserve a spot for this exciting event.
state and federal biologists recently conducted a rangewide review of the status of colorado river cutthroats, and results are expected to be released in july.
the peppers are sliced, the white onion is sliced.
program begins  at 8.
summer's start opened lightning awareness week
assimilate all the chamber "stuff."
we'll be talking more about july 4 events in the future, but keep in mind that there will be days of celebration for you to enjoy with family and friends.
populations of the state's native trout subspecies had dwindled dramatically before greenback cutthroat recovery efforts began in the 1970s.
"we want everyone to enjoy the music and performances in a casual, picnic-like setting," said lisa scott, who is cochairing the family festivo activities along with claudia rosenbaum.
three other incumbents' terms also are expiring, those of tom compton in district 2, harry goff in district 3 and pam patton in district 4.
"it's set up to simulate hunting conditions," donna clemison, club secretary, said.
twelve points is the most that can be earned for hitting a vital kill zone.
we want voters to freely exercise their rights to vote.
tickets are $25 - sunday, aug. 29 - full moon program.
i mean, what good is a grill unless you have a cookout?
reserved seat tickets may be purchased at the plaid pony, 731-5262.
there will not be room for it when we enclose the new children's area.
medicare operates a web site where consumers can list their zip code and the drugs they take, and then generate a customized list of their drug prices through the various cards at local participating pharmacies.
the cost is $130 or $123.50 for psac members.
we will give you some clues in this area.
our vocabulary lesson will test your knowledge of quilting terms.
he lives near corpus christi so i don't mention any of the mother  sauces i might brew there.
ranson said the first phase would not impact the alpha subdivision roads, though later improvements required by cdot could impact their access to the highway somewhat because alpha drive is slated to become a right-in, right-out only intersection under the state's highway plan for u.s. 160.
if possible, avoid the outdoors in the early morning hours and at dusk, times when mosquitoes are more likely to be out - rally your community to action.
the sessions of your life creating a lasting legacy - this course is designed for adults in the second half of life.
the duck jumps out of the  pond and the wolf chases the duck!
the senior center is also concerned that those who qualify for a $600 drug credit in 2004 apply for that new medicare help.
you've been a good father, in your own peculiar way.
as such, hatchery technicians must develop broodstocks to increase or amplify the number of fish available for restoration projects.
the mailing of 18,000 pieces would have been arduous without the kind help of the volunteers.
this fast-paced class will include a poured paint floral project, a  contact paper landscape, a palette knife garden scene and a collage project.
however, because of the rough and inaccessible terrain, fire managers believe it would be unsafe to put firefighters in the area at this time.
the community center will provide hot and cold beverages.
he lives near corpus christi so i don't mention any of the mother sauces i might brew there.
there will also be the "people's choice award" where  the patrons of the event can judge who is the best.
prizes will be awarded to best costume, owner pet look-alike, and celebrity look-alike.
peter calls out to the bird, warning it, and it flies into a tall tree for safety.
they consider themselves the leaders of their families.
if you took her class before, this  workshop promises new experiences formulated specifically for this class.
then consider how it must have  impacted ancestral puebloans, whose very life, religion and culture were  dominated by perceptions of the positions and movements of celestial bodies.
you will journey back in time to when ancient puebloans occupied the area around chimney rock.
so i decide on a simple blend: olive oil, lemon juice or red wine vinegar, thyme, bay leaf, salt, pepper, a measure of ground red chile, sliced onion.
if you are able to give a couple hours of time this summer it would be greatly appreciated.
she said, "i don't think they've ever caught anything."
with tax, we're looking at a little over three  thousand, not bad, huh?" "what about the apron.
many volunteers pitched in before, during and after the meal and it all  came off without a hitch - except i broke the coffee carafe.
pagosa's pastpagosa's past ute strip settlement produced some humor john m. motter staff writer we've been writing about some of the settlers who claimed land on the ute strip, an area including such communities, past and present, as allison, tiffany, oxford and others along the colorado side of the new mexico/colorado border in the southwestern part of the state.
additional public meetings in august will be sponsored by a subcommittee of the blm southwest colorado resource advisory council (rac), which advises the secretary of the interior on public land issues in southwestern colorado.
you can expect great food, great fun and lots of entertainment.
a patrol unit was sent out periodically to check on some debris left smoldering.
spend the evening watching the sunset  and the full moon rise one last time before summer comes to a close.
an artists' reception is scheduled 5-9 p.m. july 9 in the center's barbara conrad gallery at 802 e. 2nd ave.
open mic will continue at 6 p.m.  fridays.
"the reality is that the risk posed by west nile virus is much greater than any risk associated with mosquito-control pesticides, which have been extensively tested and are registered with the environmental protection agency," says james, noting the epa and the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention endorse responsible pesticide use as an integral part of the solution to help protect people from west nile virus.
my husband puts it in kinder terms and  although he tolerates my thriftiness, he continues to applaud consumerism.
also included in this program will be the parade of colors by local veterans as well as pagosa musicians john graves, father john bowe, a barbershop quartet from the senior center and a ladies trio.
and it isn't any second place, but second place in the state and it was  paced by a record-setting individual performance by raesha ray.
the couple both ordered chile, one red and one  green.
i'll prepare some herbal oils and bone up on my marinades.
moon will also feature work painted on  location in france and italy.
this spot is  named the steel bridge on my map, but the only sign of any bridge is a few 4x4  posts sticking out of the ground.
this year, kraetsch said, it will cost each participant around $1,000 just to travel to internationals in pennsylvania.
"all thunderstorms have the potential to produce lightning, so it's up to all of us to heed the warnings," johnson said.
the choir director is paul arrendell, son of pagosa resident beverly arrendell.
did you know that early american  quilters often expressed their superstitious nature within their quilts?
craft fest booth features chimney rock learn more about it!
according to carrie campbell, district general manager, progress continues on the stevens reservoir and dutton ditch projects.
"carousel," "the king and i," "south pacific" and "the sound of music," each production from this team had the courage to include subtle implications of such controversial subjects as race prejudice, spousal abuse, and intolerance - reflecting social concerns of these decades.
runners, don't forget to lace-up your running shoes saturday morning so you can run in support of our humane society.
isn't there something more important we could spend  the money on?
classes are scheduled for 9 p.m. thursday, july 1, wednesday, july 7, and thursdays, july 15 and 22.
bring friends and make friends.
i'll wear them  proudly at the gym when i lift heavy objects and put them back down again.
cats like to be the center of attention, and they always detect where your attention is centered, whether that be the open pages of the book you are reading or on the keyboard of your computer.
play will continue throughout the summer with playoffs  beginning in august.
"i also want to stress that 'peter' is a delightful orchestral work  that adults will enjoy as well," scott said, "so this is a concert  for children of all ages."
and jack and pattie?
consequently, he entertained the crowd with the dress half on and half off.
we have demonstrated that we are actively trying to improve the status of these two trout subspecies and are trying to create new populations and expand habitat.
my kit also has iodine tablets for water purification.
patty tillerson community newssenior news senior meals program expands into arboles by musetta wollenweber special to the sun archuleta county senior services has expanded into arboles.
psac annual meeting the pagosa springs arts council invites you to join them 5-7 p.m. today at  jj's upstream restaurant for their annual meeting and social event of the  season.
early registration deadline is  july 15.
fire chief warren grams said he suspects, with recent chilly mornings, someone threw wood ashes or charcoal briquettes into the trash which later ignited at the landfill.
awardees will be honored at the 17th annual national philanthropy day luncheon friday, nov. 12, in the renaissance denver hotel.
or contact deann mcdaniel at (970) 325-4372 or diane  larkin at (970) 325-9821.
ken peterson, a 62-year-old army veteran and multi-year competitor in the  games from toledo, ohio, has overcome three bouts with cancer, undergoing both  radiation and chemotherapy treatments.
nearly 65,000 veterans will receive long-term care this year through  inpatient va or state veterans home programs.
i am looking for a volunteer to teach/spot wrestling.
we hold contests every week and these prizes  are invaluable.
the unfolding events of this returning lunar cycle will be the object of a series of public lectures and observations beginning in late 2004 through 2008.
if you don't, a lot of people are going to have to listen to me sing, and i wouldn't wish that on anyone.
i would like to thank the flying burrito for its donation of meal gift  certificates to the teen center.
"our cutthroat subspecies have been pushed back from their historic range," nesler said.
john graves entertained the folks by playing some oldies but goodies and many were heard singing along.
you will see what a quilt top looks like  before the batting, backing, and binding are added.
no previous painting experience is necessary, but this class is for the  experienced painter as well.
at penasco blanco in chaco canyon, n.m., a pictograph of a crescent moon and star is thought to represent the supernova.
"oklahoma!" written with oscar hammerstein ii, ushered in a whole new musical era, wherein the songs and dances of the '50s, '60s and '70s were an integral part of the unfolding drama (as in grand opera, but without the ubiquitous obesity of the sopranos and tenors), rather than merely stand-alone vehicles for talented performers.
the crew is camped at the middle fork trailhead.
our sincere and heartfelt thanks go out once again to mike alley at laplata electric for answering my plea to put up one of our chamber flags again.
the flank steak goes over a burner turned to thermonuclear on the  dial, each side getting only a couple minutes time over the heat.
people preview profilepeople preview profile marie rasco accounts payable clerk for the pagosa area water and sanitation district where were you born?
imagine the smell of burning hair.
toni stoll was fifth on bars at 8.0, continuing what her coach, jennifer martin, calls "a great consistent season in all competitions."
with the sudden closure of martha t's (which was providing a small senior  program with the assistance of the county), i scrambled to continue a meal  program in arboles.
taneesha is screaming at chauncey as he  runs across a dark parking lot, a camera crew in hot pursuit.
my kit also has iodine tablets for  water purification.
picnic in the park picnic in the park was a blast as usual, a tad bit windy, but none the less a good time was had by all.
i hiked fourmile creek trail last week, a few days after the lost hiker  incident.
i even contemplated returning to my car by way of the anderson trail.
"the national veterans golden age games bring together veterans who landed at normandy, pows from korea and purple heart recipients from vietnam.
"i'm looking for some kind of knee-jerk reaction, a recommendation on this," she said.
think about this situation  you've created: it's shameful, karl.
noaa, is an agency of the u.s. department of commerce.
how does this help us?
raised moulding around the drawer front adds depth and interesting shading in low angle light.
sept. 11-12 - colorado arts consortium, the business of art an art party sept. 17-19 - juried art exhibit for psac members crab nebula supernova's birth lighted chimney rock by john graves special to the preview an explosion in the sky on the fourth of july?
in the meantime feel free to stop in monday's from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. and our fantastic medicare counselors will assist you.
those early settlers remember sometimes unfriendly indians and herds of wild horses coming down from the mesas to drink in the animas river.
we discourage this and often have to discard the material.
the truth about our war against terrorists, now so burdened by shortsighted  political reductionism, is it will likely go on for a very long time.
tuesday, the pagosa springs planning commission recommended approval of the first phase of a 75-acre commercial and residential development planned on the site, located near u.s. 160 and alpha drive.
it's time to reconsider.
i've contemplated adding a whistle, to blow if i think there's anyone in the area.
with its university faculty and staff serving the states and territories-most located in the over 3,000 counties across the country, the county extension office is truly the front door to america's land-grant universities.
my  daughter and son-in-law and two grandchildren live here in pagosa and i have  another son who lives in florida.
the poems reveal the unique wisdom and vision of a people.
he is preceded in death by his "gal", wife ruth; son, roddy; and grandson robert.
the meat and marinade go into the fridge for five or  six hours prior to hitting the grill.
you will rise again, my heart, in a moment, and  be borne up, through struggle, to god."
our nation must continue to expand lifelong learning to all of society and to utilize existing and new knowledge to solve complex problems.
the choir director is paul arrendell, son of pagosa resident beverly  arrendell.
you have to learn from a master at the art of chile making.
do you see geometry or symbolism in some antique quilts?
the table and  chairs and umbrella are ready to bring home too.
"many adults who now love classical music were first introduced to  symphonies in their childhood when they attended a performance of 'peter and  the wolf,' scott said.
we need them to prevail.
preregistration for all courses is required.
i have a gift in mind that will fill a need as well as  speak of love and gratitude on father's day, and i want you to go check it out  before i buy it.
the mckeehans can be counted upon to arrive early and leave late for every function to lend a helping hand and were honored a couple of years ago as citizens of the year for their remarkable contributions to this community through their participation in just about everything that happens in pagosa.
"i also want to stress that 'peter' is a delightful orchestral work that adults will enjoy as well," scott said, "so this is a concert for children of all ages."
brush and trees, even gravel roads, are used to make the shots more difficult - always with safety in mind.
stories of hispanic culture in  new mexico from tierra amarillo, native american poet and musician joy harjo,  and essayists terry tempest williams, wallace stegner, and frank waters will  round up the best of the southwest.
if you don't, a lot  of people are going to have to listen to me sing, and i wouldn't wish that on  anyone.
to this day she uses these recipes for red and green chile, fondly known as "lucy's chile" she stated with all honesty, "i'm from long island.
pending the outcome of the planning commission's meeting, further consideration of the survey is slated for the july 6 county commissioners' agenda.
representing pagosa were jane stewart, jan kilgore, lyne allison, cherry o'donnell, audrey johnson, doe stringer, loretta campuzano and josie hummel.
tour begins at 5:30 sunrise is 5:53.
since the program's inception, the value of federal payments to local governments under the program has been substantially eroded by inflation.
the bird cleverly taunts the  wolf, who snaps furiously at the bird.
pagosa lakes news volunteerism shows its mettle by keeping the economy going by ming steen sun columnist pagosa lakes property owners association's third annual garage sale was a  huge one.
veteran's corner show your patriotism at community sing-along by andy fautheree sun columnist all veterans are invited and encouraged to attend the community patriotic  sing-along tuesday, may 29, at 7 p.m. at the community center on hot springs  boulevard.
cool temperatures and increased humidity associated with storm cells have reduced the spread of the fire.
anyone who has ever attended the games and seen the esprit de corps among  the veterans knows this event is an important part of their lives."
but winning isn't really everyone's goal, both board members stressed.
specifically, they are looking for help with set-up tuesday, aug. 3, volunteers to help with this four-day event and tear-down monday, aug, 9.
however, all those who are seeking to obtain a greater understanding of their life, where they are, where they have been and where they are going, are welcome to join in on a fun journey of discovery and greater self-awareness as you explore the four seasons of life.
these competitors reflect the courage,  commitment and determination they demonstrated during their military  service," said jim donahoe, vcs national director.
he drove a little white mare named nellie hitched to a top buggy.
though the district currently has 23 additional connections pending, said campbell, only two are scheduled at present and "the bottom line is, you could probably come in here on a wednesday and we could do your tap friday.
many citizens now communicate with labels, yet cannot adequately explain what the labels mean.
"this time of year, people often come across young deer or elk that may appear to have been abandoned," says colorado division of wildlife (dow) district wildlife manager shaun deeney.
to live here is a true blessing, and it is a challenge, but that is okay for most of us.
but she was state bar champion with a record-setting 9.425 performance; placed second in vault with an 8.625 and fifth in floor exercise at 8.65.
cano indicated a second 500-pound stocking is set for the end of this month, with a third to follow sometime in july.
the group designed the course on land just east of pagosa springs donated by the laverty family.
if you would like to play games, chill with friends or shoot hoops, come join us.
"we've been able to establish many more populations.
if an animal is in a place where it is in danger of being injured or killed, wildlife officers say moving the animal to the side of the road is the option that creates the best chance of survival.
" business news biz beatbusiness news biz beat ponderosa do-it-best beverly haynes and laura and mike haynes own and operate ponderosa do-it-best which last week celebrated 20 years in business in pagosa springs.
with news last week that paul johnson was kidnapped by terrorists and  beheaded while yet another american civilian was shot and killed in saudi  arabia, and with additional warnings about imminent attacks within the u.s.,  the message should be clear to the most resistant among us: there is a movement  afoot in the world seeking our destruction, as individuals, as a society and a  culture.
i see you moving your lips.
from the early '20s to the late '70s, the songs of rodgers, with the lyrics of lorenz hart and oscar hammerstein ii, not only reflected the societal and musical mores of these decades, they also affected transformations of the entire art form.
"so, this is a set-up so you can engineer your cookout.
he gave the example of trees in front of the pagosa lodge, and those in front of the new wells fargo building.
by the time dr. weston reached a sick family, mrs. bonds was already there.
custom packages are available to you as well as outcalls, so give joanne a call at 264-1433 to learn more about ancient wisdom healing and ageless beauty.
so much that goes on goes on successfully is a result of volunteers.
the food tent will be beautifully decorated to enhance the dining  experience.
this integration of teaching, research, and public service enables the cooperative extension system to respond to critical, emerging issues with research-based information.
i believe it is sad that special interests that indeed are "conflicts of interest" are now in control of the district and that, instead of spending efforts on building you are spending time and effort on witch hunts to discredit good people.
there are many indications the ancient  puebloans marked the passage of time with a solar calendaring system.
you will start with willa cather's classic, "death comes for the  archbishop" and make your way through ellen meloy's "raven's  exile", barbara kingsolver's, "animal dreams", terry tempest  williams' "unspoken hunger", and the work of native writers paula  gunn allen, joy harjo, leslie marmon silko and linda hogan.
after the meal, mrs. martinez asked the owner where she learned to make  chile.
fee is $195 for the four-day  workshop and includes all materials, firing, and an archaeological site tour.
our thanks to barb draper for arranging the excellent programs.
the event is free and there will be potluck dessert refreshments following the program.
" "and it's going to cost?" "the grill is three-sixty and change.
besides a normal lunch i throw in a couple of granola-type  bars and candy, and i carry two bottles of water.
call 264-5020 to see if the office is open before making a visit.
as heads of their households, cats want things their way.
volleyball skills camp set for younger players the pagosa springs volleyball club gets into high gear with a skills  training camp for girls who will be in grades 5-8 next school year.
now the folks who have successfully unloaded their "stuff" can go out and buy more.
do you want to know more about the arts council?
the wolf jumps wildly to try to get loose.
today the cooperative extension system maintains its reputation for high  quality, non-formal educational programs.
more heavily than some.
we're grateful to lyn delange, owner of the pagosa springs welcoming service for recruiting joanne and will cheerfully send lyn a free sundowner pass for her efforts with our thanks.
the william bonds family was said to have lived in the bondad area longer than any others.
a subsequent presentation by ron chacey concerning the practice of transferring development rights - which chacey explained is basically a voluntary program that provides funding for the preservation of open space - sparked further questions.
moon returns to pagosa springs with new projects.
"many adults who now love classical music were first introduced to symphonies in their childhood when they attended a performance of 'peter and the wolf,' scott said.
rain gear, jacket and pants, no matter how bright and clear the sky is when  i set out.
she sat down and we embarked on conversation.
"the aim is for this to be a put-and-grow type of stocking," concluded japhet.
andrea combines her passion for making miniatures with her writing skills.
some, schweickert said, are even sponsored by various archery supply companies.
earlier this year, the state signed the rio grande cutthroat trout conservation agreement with new mexico.
he tells the bird to distract the wolf.
i'll tell you if you don't know: zip, zero, nada.
"hiking and serving the lord.
put your pants on and get off the couch.
p.a. dutton is now proprietor of the billiard and recreation parlor in the rumbaugh building, having today purchased the interests of r.t. williams.
75 years ago taken from sun files of june 28, 1929
trooper brian vining, the first state officer on the scene, said the dodge ram pickup was traveling at 86 miles per hour when the wheels went off the side of the road.
the rest of the bridge has been missing for  many years.
applications may be picked up at the extension office or by calling sandy bramwell, 264-5959, or belinda thull, 731-5269.
july 12, 14 and 16, 9-11 a.m.
featured will be artists from pagosa springs, durango and fort collins.
the end result was the recommendation of a "preferred alternative," a performance-based code modeled loosely on an award-winning growth policy implemented in fremont county, idaho.
gates open 7-7:30 p.m.
as a result of the feedback derived from extension's involvement in the greater community, academic programs are becoming more experiential and research is focusing on finding solutions to problems identified by the citizenry.
walter planned to foil the shivaree by putting on one of his wife's dresses and then shooting to scare the crowd away.
but so far i've stayed on the trails, where people are likely to find  me.
the story peter is a little boy (a girl or boy may play this part) who lives in russia on the edges of a meadow with his grandfather.
cutthroat trout have inhabited the state for thousands of years, and wildlife aquatic biologists and hatchery technicians are committed to preserving the region's natural legacy, said tom nesler, native fish species coordinator for the dow's species conservation section.
in addition, any new development or expansions of use may require "the dedication of water rights equal to 120 percent of the water expected to be required by the new proposed use or expansion of use." also, the resolution requires the developer, property owner or "proponent of the expanded development or use" to provide the district staff with a comprehensive report addressing numerous aspects associated with an increase in water use.
"if tears could be build a stairway, and memories a lane, i'd walk  right up heaven and bring you home again.
"you're the father of my children.
a final memorial will be held sunday, june 27, 2004.
three halogen lights illuminate a framed glass lid, which  opens for easy access to jewelry.
volleyball skills camp set for younger players the pagosa springs volleyball club gets into high gear with a skills training camp for girls who will be in grades 5-8 next school year.
such was the theme for a portion of the pagosa area water and sanitation district board of directors meeting tuesday in which the board approved a resolution regarding water rights dedication for new or expanded uses within the district.
lake levels the latest readings provided by the district indicate current reservoir storage is approximately 134 percent over the district's minimum-reserve goal of 1,800 acre feet.
this spot is named the steel bridge on my map, but the only sign of any bridge is a few 4x4 posts sticking out of the ground.
we begin by freeing you from the fear of failure so  that you can unleash your true creative skills.
and getting those  racks back on after the burner was lighted, boy, that was a trick.
so come support the beer sales and  support the fireworks show at the same time.
incidentally, two of their songs were banned from the radio, for the sake  of "common decency."
pagosan one of three in dac group exhibit durango arts center will host the second of this year's group exhibits "roots: life and pathways," july 6-31.
i mean, what good is a grill unless you have a  cookout?
rehearsals will  start july 12.
national philanthropy day is set aside each november to recognize the thousands of generous people who donate their time, talent and financial resources to worthy causes all over the country.
next time it might be a fawn."
the riding competition for contestants begins 9 a.m. july 1 at the arena and the personality contest at 1 p.m. july 2 in the extension building at the fairgrounds.
this is a preview of what is to come over the next four years.
then a cat slinks into the meadow, preying upon the bird.
he noted our enemies are counting  on us to fight among ourselves then cede to their demands.
he had moved to pagosa springs in october 2002, from bellflower, calif.
age group winners from pagosa springs advance to regional competitions.
this piece has a curved front and hand-turned legs that use the "trumpet and bun" motifs popular at the end of the 19th century.
we are moving ahead with a season of girl's softball and hope to get many more girls to join this year.
the flank steak goes over a burner turned to thermonuclear on the dial, each side getting only a couple minutes time over the heat.
she writes for dolls' house world magazine and lives in england.
mason's glowing account of his new-found property near bondad motivated a number of his neighbors to join him in the southwestern colorado community.
you will be able to view the hand stitching that connects the pieces that make a block.
since then, 14 more wild populations have been discovered and the state has added 13 restored populations.
"we'll take the smallest of donations," said cano.
nan's vacancy since we all concurred that it takes about a year to absorb and
reading aloud from a prepared report, task force member lynda van patter summarized the background of the process and the committee's subsequent findings.
the meeting begins at 6 p.m. and there is a nominal charge of $15 to help  raise funds to support the mission of ensuring a flourishing and diverse  community by enriching lives through all of the arts.
events today - game day, 1-3 p.m., mexican dominoes, canasta, bingo (with prizes) or whatever game you'd like to play friday, june 25 -
i said, "it would be nice if they didn't chase the wildlife.
don't worry if you can't carry a tune in a bucket, you'll blend in with the rest of us with a patriotic message that will be heard loud and clear.
sure it would make a long day, but i knew people who had done it.
please come and help drown out my terrible voice and join in with our community.
a problem developed when he couldn't get his arms all of the way into the dress.
he ended up spending the night up  there, before search and rescue found him the next day.
we'll help consumers find those drug cards that consistently provide lower costs."
a lighter and a piece of  firestarter.
we will also study the work of writers ranging from marco polo to  captain cook to mark twain and such current authors as bill bryson, jan morris  and sebastian junger.
there will be a gentle,  yet informative critique at the end of each day.
don't miss viewing this exceptional piece of  history and the fun activities at the education booth - old time school room at  quilt fest 2004.
sign up now for unleashing the power of watercolor, july  5, 6, 7 and 8 at the pagosa springs community center.
teams shoot the range twice, taking aim at the targets from a different marker each time.
their  wedding will be at 11 a.m. july 10, 2004, in first assembly of god church in  pagosa springs.
they call also call (800) medicare and request the computer list, but this service has been overwhelmed with calls.
according to a news release from nielsons skanska, the expected completion date remains sept. 31.
mrs. bonds had a great impact on the community because she was a practical nurse who combined her training with a caring heart and was always ready to help.
to make the dean's honor roll, a student must complete at least 12  semester hours and earn a 3.45 or higher grade point average.
from wall hangings, to antiques, to large  quilts, there will be an enticing variety to see.
" "i have no idea what that is, and " "a t-shirt commemorating what i consider to be the consistently best junior a hockey program in all of manitoba, though fans in flin flon would disagree in typically violent fashion.
in the shade of the massive trunk is the first patch of snow.
"bruce's dedication to wildlife management - specifically in colorado - is simply unmatched," george said.
in lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to new heart, 4700  jefferson n.e., suite 1200, albuquerque, n.m. 87109.
the men's league is open to golfers of all levels.
" mahler then adds his own poetry which ends: "i shall die to live.
squeeze into those dockers and take the truck to the store, check out the grill, tell them we'll take it.
my goal is to climb pagosa  peak," he said.
" business news biz beat ponderosa do-it-best beverly haynes and laura and mike haynes own and operate ponderosa  do-it-best which last week celebrated 20 years in business in pagosa springs.
youth learn science, math, and social skills through hands-on projects and activities - agriculture - research and educational programs assist individuals to learn new ways to produce income through alternative enterprises, improved marketing strategies and management skills and help farmers and ranchers improve productivity through resource management, controlling crop pests, soil testing, livestock production practices, rangeland management and marketing.
byob and potluck dinner 6-7 p.m.; short class starting at 7.
another point to ponder: observers in chaco canyon saw the star in their  northern sky, where it would appear to lead to chimney rock.
it spun a quarter turn, crossed the highway and went off the other side of the highway.
for more information
the only caveat is to be sure that your pet is comfortable with other pets and lots of people.
so many people have shown interest in purchasing the piece of furniture, we are going to have a "silent auction" starting next week.
we hold contests every week and these prizes are invaluable.
in this course, you will learn how to translate the knowledge and emotion gained from traveling to a new place - whether exotic or regional - into clear and compelling language that not only captures the essence of people and place but also stirs the interest and passion of the reader.
the wolf begins to circle the tree where the cat and bird sit.
in the workshop you will create pueblo iii mesa verde black-on-white pottery using prehistoric methods.
"i like hunting, but i like to do it the hardest way possible.
a supernova is the most violent way a star can die, and in this case its  aftermath was the creation of the crab nebula.
what did i know about chile?" her words ring true for all of us who want to make a great chile.
the entertainment stage will be set up on the soccer practice field, with grass seating throughout the practice field area.
don and mary mckeehan have  individually served a number of years on this board as both directors and  president and have collectively supported virtually every chamber event from  the beginning of time.
you will learn to use the right side of your brain where your creative side  dwells.
donations are very welcome and much needed; call me at 264-4151, ext. 231.
the roundup committee is looking for young ladies to try out for 2005 royalty promising the contest will be new, fun and more exciting.
you've been a  good father, in your own peculiar way.
spend the evening watching the sunset and the full moon rise one last time before summer comes to a close.
"these games provide  inspiration to countless americans who seek to live a healthy and active  life."
girl's softball girls 9-14 interested in playing softball this summer, call myles gabel at 264-4151, ext.
new books "making period dolls' house accessories," by andrea barham will  give you ideas on how to make realistic miniature items to furnish and decorate  a doll house.
" close to the waterfall, i met a man who told me that he was walking on two  brand-new knees.
he was escorted to safety.
ellen enjoyed traveling.
class size is limited to provide each participant individualized instruction.
and then  i come to a huge tree across the trail.
" in summary, the code proposes planning for development based on impact as opposed to planning based strictly on land use.
the couple both ordered chile, one red and one green.
that may mean drinking from the faucet or walking across the kitchen table.
in the low gross category, jane stewart was first with an 81; second place went to jan kilgore with an 88, third to jane day at 89 and fourth to kristin hatfield with a 97.
" "a lot of people think if i deserve anything, it's a sound  thrashing." "that's for sure, but you need a gift on father's day.
"veterans canteen service is proud to be one of the sponsors of the  national veterans golden age games.
we are thrilled to announce that the pagosa hot strings will once again grace us with their presence and music at the concert sunday beginning at 7 p.m. until the fireworks begin at dusk.
adoption rate for cats is discounted 50 percent and at only $22.50 which includes your new feline friend being spay/neutered, vaccinated and microchipped, how can you resist?
a lighter and a piece of firestarter.
at a restaurant that had been there for over a quarter of a century.
and getting those racks back on after the burner was lighted, boy, that was a trick.
thank you to carol from voc rehab and welcome to gail from the southwest  center for independence.
"the entire western slope region is within the colorado river cutthroat range.
the trash that comes across the  internet and the airwaves from campaign strategists works to strengthen this  view; we cannot succumb.
included in the program will be the parade of colors by local veterans as well as local talent including john graves, father john bowe, a barbershop quartet from the senior center, and a ladies trio.
we are open from  1-8 p.m. weekdays.
this interactive seminar, focusing on the elements of evocative nature writing, will involve in-class exercises and weekly writing assignments.
the loans are available for business dependent on farmers and ranchers sustaining crop losses due to drought that occurred after jan. 1, 2003, and is continuing.
contact annette foor at the humane society administrative office, 264-5549.
"i like the thrill of doing it the hard way," he said.
the compassionate host has his arm around the sobbing woman.
local arborist chris pierce has offered to help create a tree conservation ordinance on a pro bono basis.
i've got a lot of hair growing in a lot of places you know.
the range of topics extension addresses includes: - 4-h youth development -develops important life skills in youth that build character and assist them in making career choices that strengthen citizenship and leadership.
the program is free to the public and flags will be given to all who attend  courtesy of the chamber of commerce and the community center.
look at chauncey's body  language.
at the dawn of the 21st century, the american land-grant university system  began the engagement movement.
to this day she uses  these recipes for red and green chile, fondly known as "lucy's chile"
land use plan revived; may go to county july 6 by tom carosello staff writer
in this case, the tide may float a few boats, but for the most part, it would be devastating to our little section of nature &emdash; while devastating part of the real wealth of pagosa.
monday-friday, july 12-15, 1-3 p.m. and  monday-friday, aug. 2-6, 1-3 p.m. art history -
although the eis considers cumulative effects from development on private lands, it will make no decisions involving private property.
the range is located one mile east of town on u.s. 160, directly across from riverside campground.
a separate agreement is being created for the property to address pedestrian access and improvements because the final plan for river restoration work on that stretch of the san juan has not been completed.
in both cases, murderers displayed their act on the internet in a show of gruesome bravado intended to recruit new members and to intimidate us.
"if tears could be build a stairway, and memories a lane, i'd walk right up heaven and bring you home again.
i'll warm flour tortillas in a foil pack, slice some avocados (unless  the market is selling those window breakers that take three years to ripen) and  tomato, chop some cilantro leaves, break out a melange of shredded cheeses and  unleash the last of a batch of fine homemade salsa.
come out and root for your teams at the sports complex tuesday and thursday.
by leanne goebel special to the preview nationally renowned and award-winning artist joye moon, will conduct a four-day watercolor workshop for the pagosa springs arts council.
" steve yamashita, division assistant regional manager, added, "that person thought they were doing the right thing."
in addition to the unforgettable music, comedy, dancing and drama of such musicals as "oklahoma!"
it's going to  be a tough habit to break.
learn new techniques and gain a new way of looking  at the subjects you paint.
club members travel all over the state, sometimes all over the country, to attend similar competitions.
in-step dance club sets july schedule in-step dance club has scheduled four july classes featuring country  western swing ii (and polka).
the dog is leaping into the debris in a frantic search for sausages.
after the meal, mrs. martinez asked the owner where she learned to make chile.
he had moved to pagosa springs in october 2002,  from bellflower, calif.
this is a preview of  what is to come over the next four years.
you will cover a basic understanding of photography and an application of how to better use your camera.
as was the case over a century ago, problems in most aspects of everyday living are best resolved by citizens in local communities.
we have finally received all the information we need to share with you  regarding the medicare drug cards; we'll have the info released soon.
in both cases,  murderers displayed their act on the internet in a show of gruesome bravado  intended to recruit new members and to intimidate us.
what we do know is that the chimney rock interpretive program will hold a series of special programs to illuminate and celebrate such events.
ponderosa do-it-best is open monday through saturday.
a "skin" is won by posting a net score on a hole which is lower  than any other golfer's score on that hole.
i fell in love with it.
frank hutchins and kim winston each obtained one greenie and russ hatfield bested the field on two of the par three holes.
the chimney rock archeological area will sponsor an  educational booth july 2-4 at the pagosa springs arts and crafts festival, in  town park.
the bird flies around the  pond where the duck swims, and they argue who is better - the one who can fly  or the one who can swim.
as well, chief librarian lenore bright will include "peter and the  wolf" in the children's summer reading program.
but nothing stays the same forever.
in lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to new heart, 4700 jefferson n.e., suite 1200, albuquerque, n.m. 87109.
state biologists are now seeing the payoff.
the meat is cut  in thin pieces, against the grain.
camping parties of all classes will soon commence.
program starts at 6:30.
i'll prepare some  herbal oils and bone up on my marinades.
i continue on, still thinking of making it to the anderson trail.
our mischievous table nine at the den is up to no good again.
we know the regular school year has ended.
welcoming these good folks always makes the summer sun shine just a little brighter for us here at the chamber.
she had a close fight with a gymnast from the aerials (home team for the event in colorado springs) losing by one tenth of a point.
according to archuleta county sheriff's reports, deputy richard robinson first responded to the fire about 4:30 p.m. june 20 on the heels of pagosa fire protection district personnel.
elation center for the arts  is offering music and dance classes for children, mondays at pagosa lakes  clubhouse.
mr. and mrs. w.b. turner spent a couple of days at saddleback ranch last week.
aurora even sends a card every other  year or so." "and that's enough for you?
well, we don't want to ruin the suspense, so we will  keep the end of the story a secret until the performance on july 29.
look at tasheen's tattoo, the permanent teardrop right at the corner  of the eye.
we are honored to display a quilt top which was hand -pieced with a purpose more than 150 years ago.
the developers have submitted a request for temporary access at boulder drive - currently the turn to first baptist church.
this week i'm going to recommend a book in recognition of the music in the  mountains summer season.
plan to attend this event and feel free to call 264-5020 with questions.
the story goes that two new customers came  in, lucy and mel martinez.
a strolling mariachi will serenade diners as they feast on an  unlimited array of chili.
my husband puts it in kinder terms and although he tolerates my thriftiness, he continues to applaud consumerism.
or, perhaps you will advance to the head of the class as you try to assemble a heritage quilt block puzzle.
farmers and ranchers are not eligible for these sba loans.
as to the "texas issue," it's not so much that they are texans, it's the attitude some bring with them, and this holds true for anyone from anywhere.
right after you cross fall creek the trail becomes steep and heavily eroded.
i mean, to start it i had to take the racks out, then  remove the shelf with the greasy lava rocks.
except this  ball of fire appeared in the sky over chimney rock and the four corners area in  the year 1054 a.d. remaining for three weeks as a large star visible even in the day and  shining as brightly as the full moon at night, it gradually faded away and  vanished - but not before the world had seen and recorded this amazing  apparition, now recognized as the birth of the crab nebula supernova.
july 15 - photo club meets 6:30 p.m. at community center july 15-31 - batik and screamers papier maché workshop july 27 - psac board meeting, 5 p.m. aug. 5-31 - watercolor exhibit with denny rose, ginnie bartlett and  watercolor students aug. 11 - watercolor club, 9:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m.
covered wagon winners 6 and under were: keaton anderson, brenton bowman,  savannah brown, micaella church, kyle garcia, leeann hersom, blake irons,  tristin johnson, mckinzee kelley, jude lindberg, ryan mcginnis, andie miller,  kai wagner and kudra wagner.
the meat needs marinating
they've had us over a couple of times for their christmas open house.
by karen carpenter special to the preview last friday's open mic was a collage of sounds and an excellent way to get  over any microphone phobia one might have.
town planning commission considers tree conservation
according to an upper san juan search and rescue news release, david rhea, a retired physician from tucson, was reported missing about 12:30 p.m. by his wife.
our third new member is mark a. moore who joins us as an associate with citizens bank pagosa.
this class is suitable for  beginners to professionals.
we're happy to bring you three new businesses this week and six renewals.
but peter's curiosity gets the better of him and he ventures out into the meadow.
ms. van antwerp's great-grandmother, adelia dehart,  hurriedly prepared the quilt top by hand to hang outside her family's farmhouse  identifying it as a safe house on the underground railroad.
brown is working  toward a bachelor of science degree in animal sciences at the abilene, texas  school.
cultural heritage can be expressed in unique quilting  techniques, choice of colors, and designs.
you may also e-mail psac@centurytel.net or greenacres1@centurytel.net.
unlike her human counterpart, a deer mother can't just leave junior with the baby-sitter when she needs a break.
there is still time to pick up registration forms in advance at the humane society thrift store or the shelter; $15 for adults and $10 for kids.
i decide to flash grill a nice hunk of flank steak along with some peppers - one red, one poblano - some white and green onions and a few spears of yellow squash.
veteran's cornerveteran's corner show your patriotism at community sing-along by andy fautheree sun columnist all veterans are invited and encouraged to attend the community patriotic sing-along tuesday, may 29, at 7 p.m. at the community center on hot springs boulevard.
after clearing his land and proving up on it, he sold half of it to his brother john.
but peter's curiosity gets the better of him and  he ventures out into the meadow.
the two-hour program begins as the sun goes down.
the athletes compete in open and wheelchair divisions in specific age groups.
now he has a new journey, one like he has never seen his path is brighter, even more beautiful than his "cool, clear, clean  pagosa springs.
paws oks water rights resolution by tom carosello staff writer of horses and hotels.
unfortunately, while the latest predictions suggest a daily pattern of increasing clouds into the evening hours, the chance for anything but an isolated mountain shower or two remains slim.
ellen was born in brownsville, texas, on jan. 24, 1932, to hiliria fullen  and eleanor frances schaefer.
what caused them to leave?
the final party will be at the south  pagosa park on 8th street wednesday, july 7.
library newslibrary news wooden card catalog slated for silent auction by lenore bright sun columnist our wooden card catalog has not been in use for many years.
we have finally received all the information we need to share with you regarding the medicare drug cards; we'll have the info released soon.
contact the visitor's cabin at  883-5359 for tickets.
perhaps the most poignant of the stories was told by margaret may, speaking of her sister and the continuing support she draws from her passing.
and there is no trick to them.
in order to do so, we want to make sure that when citizens of colorado go to the polls, each has proper identification." "by taking proper identification to the polling place," she added, "voters of colorado ensure that our elections are accessible, accurate and accountable."
for larger fish, the cost is $5 per pound.
the library will be closed saturday, july 3, for the parade.
" generally, said ron schweickert, club president, it takes between one and a half to two hours to walk the course.
joye moon's one woman exhibit at the gallery in town park opens july 1 with  a reception for the artist from 5-7 p.m. moon is providing wisconsin cheese and wine for the celebration.
look at tasheen's tattoo, the permanent teardrop right at the corner of the eye.
there's several cold beers  about.
deadline to sign up is june 28.
" "i'm going to get you a present.
survivors include his son, robert kittinger; a brother, gerald kittinger of silverton, ore., and friend eddie arteche of buena park, calif. funeral services were held 11 a.m. saturday, june 29, 2004 at pagosa funeral options.
this symphony of mahler's was new to both and was a great inspiration to all the musicians in rehearsal.
"he has long-standing relationships within the dow and has served the agency in nearly every wildlife management position possible - clearly his dedication is matched only by his wealth of experience.
"and those who qualify will automatically receive a second $600 drug credit in 2005.
many citizens now communicate with  labels, yet cannot adequately explain what the labels mean.
the ball is rolling, again.
well, to define it "exactly"  would probably take a science degree and several thousand words, but following  are a few assorted facts relating to this phenomenon.
do you know of an outstanding volunteer, philanthropist or fund-raising professional?
july 5-8 in the high school gymnasium.
i even contemplated returning to  my car by way of the anderson trail.
sally hameister will start the race.
when i got home i imposed on charlie and his friend to help me heft the grill from truck to deck (that portion of the structure that might support the device).
it's still early in the day and i can  walk across them without sinking in.
anyone interested in donating to the program can contact cano at 264-2370.
we have received calls from other  groups, such as candidates, church groups, educational groups etc.
"i like the challenge," she said, "and trying to at least keep up with and sometimes maybe even beating the guys.
with teams from pagosa springs and dulce competing each week the games have  been close and exciting.
going on would be foolish.
june is flying by, but we will remember our june birthday babies on the 25th when we serve lunch.
editorialeditorial find common ground let's continue to hammer on a point made here in the past, and by sen. ben nighthorse campbell in an article in the sun two weeks ago.
monday's session, however, was designed for informational purposes, to reexamine the methodology involved in the 10-month planning process leading up to the current phase of development - plans given majority approval by the county commissioners and the planning commission whenever called into question.
celebrate with us today by visiting the cats at the humane society of pagosa springs and at petfinder.com, the aspca's online adoption partner.
following millions of turbulent years and  many successive violent transformations, it exploded.
the unfolding events of this returning lunar cycle will be the object of a  series of public lectures and observations beginning in late 2004 through 2008.
both cole and archuleta county sheriff tom richards urged people who go into the wilderness to take maps, compasses or a gps device.
applications and further information can be obtained by calling the sba toll free at (800) 366-6303 or tdd (817) 267-4688 for the hearing impaired.
unless your city or town has a mosquito-control program, you could be at serious risk.
now is your opportunity to submit a nomination for an outstanding individual or organization in your community for the celebration of the 17th annual national philanthropy day in colorado.
the  compassionate host has his arm around the sobbing woman.
have you seen the underside of a  pieced quilt top before it is sandwiched with batting and backing and quilted?
hatchery personnel are then able to develop new broodstocks from the offspring of rescued fish.
while we can't put it in our collection with these notes, we will consider typing up the notes and sharing them with anyone interested in going there.
"oklahoma!" written with oscar hammerstein ii, ushered in a whole  new musical era, wherein the songs and dances of the '50s, '60s and '70s were  an integral part of the unfolding drama (as in grand opera, but without the  ubiquitous obesity of the sopranos and tenors), rather than merely stand-alone  vehicles for talented performers.
it's been two years and we haven't had them  over yet.
there are two waterfalls at the head of the fourmile valley.
many do their  intellectual and political business trading in caricatures that, upon  inspection, prove without substance - mere containers for personal  frustrations, fears, thwarted ambitions.
the river's historic median flow for the week of june 24 equals roughly 900 cubic feet per second.
it's more like a boulder scramble.
"archery is a very individualized sport from what you choose to shoot with to what you choose to shoot," schweickert said.
call  731-8060 to reserve a spot for only $25.
the upper san juan regional planning commission was scheduled to "ratify through written findings" its may 26 recommendation to the county commissioners.
what is illuminated in this is a threat nearly as deadly as the hooded thugs who kidnap and kill.
"if there are enough quality sites out there we can continue to recreationally fish for cutthroats.
(a nebula is briefly defined as  any of many vast cloud-like masses of gas or dust among the stars.)
using the more advanced, technical equipment tends to take longer because of the sighting and adjustments required perfecting the aim, he said.
the lee sterling chile taste is open to all who want to compete in this  year's contest, but is limited to only 50 entries.
moon returns  to pagosa springs with new projects.
tickets are $10 - thursday, sept. 23 - fall equinox program.
the hot strings have been invited to  join us every year for as long as they are willing to, so we are always  especially happy to welcome them back each year.
during the 2003 legislative session, the general assembly of colorado passed three bills requiring presentation of photo identification at your polling place before you are allowed to vote.
the day ends at 2 p.m.
then traveled for a while, in his airstream with his wife.
artists, please consider donating art for this event.
in the low gross category, jane stewart was first with an 81; second place  went to jan kilgore with an 88, third to jane day at 89 and fourth to kristin  hatfield with a 97.
latarah rivera, 13, won the teen center logo contest.
" the pay is approximately $110 for the day and all selected must attend one class that explains what you will do.
the legs, made from pennsylvania hard maple, are stabilized at the base by gracefully curved stretchers joined at their centers by a ball and block mechanism.
this interactive seminar, focusing on the elements of evocative nature  writing, will involve in-class exercises and weekly writing assignments.
a recent study showed that chopsticks may cause arthritis.
one or two of our students are real "dummies" but their costumes are pretty neat!
ray finished second in the all-around against girls in the child division (10 and under), scoring a 34.55.
at campbell's request, the board authorized pursuit of a "full title policy" that is expected to augment ongoing negotiations with residents who own property at the stevens site.
this balanced, integrated approach encompasses four components: 1.
the event is free and there will be potluck dessert refreshments following  the program.
"like other americans working to improve their quality of life through increased physical activity, these men and women have their own fountain of youth," said anthony j. principi, secretary of veterans affairs.
schwieckert said the lavertys' generosity with land allowed the club to put together the 3/4-mile range, the longest they've ever attempted.
we are grateful to nan for the two and a half years she served on this  board and wish her well in her new endeavors.
i also enjoy  meeting the people of pagosa.
there are many indications the ancient puebloans marked the passage of time with a solar calendaring system.
and then i'm almost at the top of the cliff.
college credits are available for this class.
" where did you go to school?
now it's  not recommended for stock.
we sincerely welcome don back to our board and applaud him for agreeing  to join this motley crew for the next six months.
editorial find common ground let's continue to hammer on a point made here in the past, and by sen. ben  nighthorse campbell in an article in the sun two weeks ago.
cleda was hurt the worst - she thought her mother was killed and her comanche shrieks rent the air - but she never lost her spearmint.
this is a free event featuring a reenactment of the mountain man era with black powder shoots, knife and hawk throws, novelty shoots, games, primitive dress and camping and traders.
participants must have their own manual 35mm camera and supply of film and processing.
"whatever the majority is going to do, i'm for it," concluded huff.
next, she wove the research and the quilt story into  history lessons for her students.
staff will be happy to answer your questions and help you find the animal that fits you and your lifestyle.
her logo was a c over  t overlay in bright color shading.
but she was state bar champion with a record-setting 9.425 performance;  placed second in vault with an 8.625 and fifth in floor exercise at 8.65.
obituariesobituaries ellen gerhards ellen lee gerhards of pagosa springs died in mercy medical center in durango june 16, 2004.
the official start of summer on june 20 marked the peak season for a deadly and yet dangerously misunderstood weather phenomena: lightning.
travel writing - travel is a composite of exploration and discovery; of taste, smell, and touch; of history, culture, and geography; of personal immersion in new experiences.
our social studies lesson entitled "heritage through oral  tradition" hangs on the back wall in our schoolroom.
what are your other interests?
in addition, roughly 32 percent of the land in fremont county is privately owned and the local economy is based primarily on tourism, recreation and agriculture.
the new grill has several manageable heat zones, so i will learn to work with them.
" outdoorsoutdoors merchants launch second year of rainbow trout stocking
others were straggling in to enjoy the last of the hamburgers on the grill.
"i've always felt a responsibility to share as an artist.
upcoming workshops expressing yourself in mixed media with amy rosner, june 28-30.
peter arrives and he has an idea: he brings a rope and climbs along a branch into the tree.
fire restrictions went into effect monday in zone 1, the lower-elevation zone, of the san juan public lands.
for more information call 264-4152.
quilt fest's educational segment aimed at youth by shari pierce and robbye reedy special to the preview each year at quilt fest, the pagosa piecemakers include an educational component to the show.
you arrive at the polling place where you've cast ballots for the last 10 years, enter the building and approach the election judges' table.
most conservation populations of colorado river cutthroat trout and rio grande cutthroat trout are also protected with catch-and-release regulations.
tickets are  $10 - thursday, sept. 23 - fall equinox program.
and this book is available at sisson library.
the trail ahead might be full of snow  and downed trees.
so many people have shown interest in purchasing the piece of furniture, we  are going to have a "silent auction" starting next week.
the tiny pieces are made from simple, inexpensive materials,  using a minimum of equipment and requiring no special skills.
artwork must be delivered to ouray community center, 340 6th ave.,  aug. 2 between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. this year's judge is ralph w. lewis, retired  professor emeritus of the university of new mexico.
the table and chairs set, with colorful  umbrella, is another four hundred.
victor is small town near cripple creek.
theories, legends and archaeological findings, as well as archaeoastronomy insights, are presented.
and, at chimney rock, they may have constructed one wall of the great house to align with this event.
we will read and discuss two  seminal novels of our region, ron querry's "the death of bernadette  lefthand" and leslie marmo silko's "ceremony" as well as edward  abbey's classic, "desert solitaire."
many do their intellectual and political business trading in caricatures that, upon inspection, prove without substance - mere containers for personal frustrations, fears, thwarted ambitions.
the applicant, chris smith, thanked the board for working with him to vacate half of navajo street that traveled through the property.
decisions there are in the hands of the county, the metro district and the developer.
the open category will be for variations on the theme such as  vegetarian and the many diversions from the standards such as texas or  cincinnati chili, to name a few.
there will be antique sewing machines, irons, an  ironing board and a quilt rack that is over 100 years more.
by bill nobles sun columnist today - 12:30 p.m. 4-h entomology, extension office, 12:30 p.m. monday, june 21 - 4-h dog obedience, extension office-exhibit hall, 4 p.m.; 4-h sports fishing, extension office, 4 p.m.; 4h-shooting sports, ski & bow rack, 4 p.m.
learn more about her at www.amyrosnerfineart.com or contact amy at  livingart@cox.net or (602) 697-9456.
welcome to the only art class that will not encourage you to make your artwork look like the subject.
brad carey joins us next with integrity computers and phone systems with  offices located in his home.
he would welcome your call at 731-7235.
the six-step finishing process, gives the piece an "aged" appearance fitting its traditional design.
you'll look real cute and everyone will love the food and admire your skill.
during this program glenn raby, chimney rock site manager, will describe  supernovas, the northern lunar standstill, and other astronomical events as  they relate to chimney rock.
the blm administers the pilt program because it is the largest single federal land management agency, with responsibility for over 264 million acres of public land.
mr. williams died tuesday, june 22, 2004.
grandfather takes peter home and a big gray wolf comes out of the forest.
the spanish fiesta royalty will grace us with their presence as our servers for the evening.
dean's list students at mesa are those who maintained a 3.5 or better grade  point average in 12 or more credit hours during the semester.
the program is run by local volunteers in partnership with the forest service.
engagementsengagements craigen david gustafson, kevin and rebecca neel, and don and pat craigen announce the engagement of their children, bethina gustafson and jarrett craigen.
events at the games are open to all u.s. military veterans age 55 or older who are receiving care at any va medical facility.
each day will be unique, so if you cannot participate for all three days, you may join the class for individual days.
three men win golf league skins a skins game, made popular by the tv golf show of the same name, was the  format for the men's golf league june 15.
competing saturday in eagles state competition in colorado springs against  11 teams with 244 total gymnasts, pagosa's entry came home with the  second-place trophy and ray's first-place individual medal.
by tess noel baker staff writer the south side of u.s. 160 west of downtown pagosa springs boasts little besides trees and grass.
the board determined that we needed a "seasoned" director to fill
by that time, he couldn't get out either.
goldsmith describes the mahler musical version of "being borne upward through struggle" as: " a wondrous clangor of open chords sounded by the strings, winds and brass of the orchestra, undergirded by the rumbling strength of the organ and augmented by crashing percussion and pealing bells.
the council is your organization.
the schoolroom library includes interesting books for all age and interest levels in which quilting is the central theme.
there were people at 38 booths hawking their wares, and well over 300  shoppers attending.
you'll  discover an enthusiasm you've forgotten.
how did they live on such a high pinnacle?
colorado currently has 29 conservation populations of greenback cutthroat trout; 76 conservation populations of rio grande cutthroat trout; and 171 conservation populations of colorado river cutthroat trout.
peter makes a lasso out of the rope and  lets it down very carefully, catching the wolf by the tail.
show patriotism lets all show our community and national patriotism by turning out for this fun-filled evening of song, music and flag waving.
brauch is confident colorado's cutthroat recovery efforts are heading in a positive direction, despite the drought, wildfires and other challenges.
this is your last chance to stop the train around before it jumps the tracks."
eleven million years ago, in the constellation of taurus the bull (where  the crab nebula is now), a star was born.
more than 90 percent of va's medical centers also provide noninstitutional long-term for more information visit www.va.gov/vetevent/gag/2004.
hunt was transported to mercy medical center in durango where he was listed in good condition wednesday.
entrance  to the show will be via the doors on fourth street.
" "it didn't require that much effort, really."
competing for the level 5's were re'ahna ray (raesha's younger sister),  sienna stretton and toni stoll and each brought home a state medal.
it was designed to further secure the integrity of the election process, she said.
big bobsleds for hauling heavy loads were used for taking half the neighborhood to the schoolhouse for "literary" or church.
eventually, a permanent signalized intersection will be created at what is now the entrance to the timber ridge sales office.
on sunday, june 27, the bow club's competition shoot, set to start at 9 a.m. with registration a half hour before, will be a benefit for pagosa pathfinders, a nonprofit youth club who participate in the youth hunter education challenge sponsored by the national rifle association.
well, we don't want to ruin the suspense, so we will keep the end of the story a secret until the performance on july 29.
the two-seated rig being wrecked, the balance of the distance to the depot was covered on foot.
peterson believes that staying active  and involved with sports helped his recovery.
the path levels out under tall spruce.
join me for a journey into the process of putting a  part of yourself on paper.
as was the custom of the day, the neighbors planned to shivaree the newlyweds.
" "up." "to look at a new gas grill.
the food tent will be beautifully decorated to enhance the dining experience.
- little chauncey jr.  and chaunceen.
toni stoll was fifth on bars at 8.0, continuing what her coach, jennifer  martin, calls "a great consistent season in all competitions."
after graduating from high school she married lawrence gerhards in brownsville in november 1949.
to apply for the program, seniors should call the humane society at 731-4771.
while it was previously believed that it primarily posed a threat to senior citizens, a number of states have been reporting serious cases of the virus in individuals in their 30s and 40s.
the official ballot for the candidates for the board of directors and the proposed bylaw changes are a part of the newsletter.
john brought his wife and her widowed sister with children followed.
join us for a late summer full moon program.
join us to learn how these solar events were observed at chimney rock archaeological area.
you will rise again, my heart, in a moment, and be borne up, through struggle, to god."
this high school group of 30 is from the first united methodist church in arlington, texas, and will be here in pagosa as a part of their summer tour.
they were allowed to perform only jewish playrights and composers.
it was in that vein that people began to plant - petunias, pansies, geraniums, small evergreens - and, in some cases, to label the plantings in honor of a loved one or a friend.
while overall cutthroat numbers have improved, some individual populations are small and at greater risk of extirpation, which means the recovery program will likely continue for years to come.
dow hatcheries presently have two pure greenback broodstocks from the arkansas and south platte rivers and four colorado river cutthroat broodstocks from the white, colorado, dolores and san juan rivers.
"great course," one man said to schwieckert, who was also acting as chef.
in the first phase, they are focusing on 8.75 acres to include a total of eight commercial lots and infrastructure development.
our nation is divided as rarely before, polarized into factions tagged with emotionally-loaded labels.
calendar of events mark your calendar and join us for one or several of our special events  this summer.
sponsoring a shoot for the pathfinders, whose members sometimes practice with the group, seemed a natural fit.
and then your attention becomes focused on the rocks at your feet.
during the past 30 years, lightning strikes have killed an average of 67 people each year &emdash; compared with 65 tornado fatalities and 14 hurricane deaths.
according to statistics provided by baker, the demographics of fremont county are comparable to those of archuleta county, indicating a population of about 12,000 and one incorporated town of 3,300.
includes watercolor, collage, and embellishments.
hot food, cool art the pagosa springs arts council and the pagosa chamber of commerce will  host a sundowner wednesday, july 28, in town park.
in this course you will discuss art history, the elements of art and principles of design, various media, and art interpretation.
friends and family are invited to gather at the family home saturday, june 26, 2004, for a continuing celebration of his life.
you need a new gas grill.
actually, i think, chauncey doesn't have it all that bad.
they keep me on my toes!
girls not yet signed up are urged to do so as soon as possible, since camp t-shirts must be ordered.
felicia meyer and melinda baum are in charge of the open audition for the  parts in "peter," a musical work created by russian composer sergei  prokofiev to teach his children about the symphony.
they keep me on my  toes!
the lack of rain, along with cool nights, has kept the main rivers from getting out of their banks.
don't worry if you can't  carry a tune in a bucket, you'll blend in with the rest of us with a patriotic  message that will be heard loud and clear.
ellen was born in brownsville, texas, on jan. 24, 1932, to hiliria fullen and eleanor frances schaefer.
monday-friday, aug. 2-6, 10 a.m.-noon.
thanks to the efforts of numerous local merchants, you don't have to look any further than the stretch of san juan river that runs through downtown pagosa springs.
national oceanic and atmospheric administration's (noaa)
jody lawrence  was second with 70, josie hummel third with a 71 and robyn alspach fourth with  a 73.