then i progressed to reciting them by memory.
let me know what you think.
look for a dictionary with precise, up to date and adequate definitions.
you may learn faster or slower than the next
it also helps if they have examples of how the word is used contextually or idiomatically.
im personally anxious for the carpet to get put in because i think that it will really bring things together.
© letutor language school 2012
heres a link to the video.
your speaking abilities will sound more polished and natural.
how to make language learning more convenient: 1.
the amish speak dutch or pennsylvania
its my first attempt so be kind.
pick a subject and study them.
facebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit subscribe to our rss subscribe to our blog and get all the latest information about new languages...
adults are no different than kids in our ability to learn except that we have this intellectual or emotional baggage that tells that we cant do something or that it is too difficult and not worth trying.
heres a  link to the video.
stay tuned to our blog for more information and announcements.
adults are just more aware of all of the hard work it takes to learn a language.
i often get asked by adult students if it is too late for them to learn a foreign language.
we are having a small delay with some permit issues that werent taken care of but we are hopefully getting fixed.
plan ahead – make sure that you think ahead about how you can make your language studies more natural.
we are currently accepting pre enrollment for our group classes and expect them to fill up quickly as we have 3 years worth of contacts who will be interested in our group classes.
but if you work hard you will learn the language.
i know natives dont always pronounce each syllable but learn it correctly first
im not sure i would take anything from them and most certainly not any kind of instruction.
heres the blog post that reignited this subject for me.
subscribe to our email newsletter for news, language, tips and site updates.
2 although it seems that the teacher isnt extremely fluent herself it is good to see a school district placing priority on foreign language learning for young students.
standard dictionary: although there are lots of dictionaries out there very few do it well.
as adults we build up language learning too much in our minds as something hard or think it will be easy and then get discouraged when we dont speak fluently in 30 days.
adults can achieve the same results but it takes time and hard work.
im sure since theyve been isolated for near  200 years now that the language has evolved in to a creole of sorts.
the store looks great and will be all but finished as of wednesday of this week.
le tutor will open its doors to the public.
imitate everything they say and how they say.
i hope this helps you get started learning your desired foreign language or improves your current studies.
choose someone whos accent and pronunciation you enjoy and do your best to speak like them.
use convenient tools – make sure that you have the tools necessary to help you make language learning convenient.
so do i think that it is easier for kids to learn a foreign language than adults.
theme based dictionaries: i personally really like mastering language vocabulary by barrons but im sure there are others that are very good.
ive some picks on the demolition and pre demolition stages.
a large part of speaking fluency is recall and muscle memory.
i dont think that we have supernatural powers but at the same time feel that what holds many back are our own minds.
dutch which is a dialect of german.
1855 e guadalupe a-104
this post i found these videos on childhood foreign language learning.
however, it is the most important book in my collection because it makes language learning convenient and immediate.
this short video tells you about the language and how kid are taught at school.
at anytime i wanted to find out what a word meant that someone said in a conversation or while reading i instantly looked it up.
this dictionary is french only so i only started using it after i was conversational.
facebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit videos on early childhood language learning written by aaron
tempe, arizona language classes start august 4th 2008facebook - twitter -digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit written by aaron comments off | print this post most people who are studying foreign languages will have a whole library of books about their language of interest.
comments off | print this post heres a language learning tip that is a personal favorite.
i show books for different languages but you can find the books i show in almost any language easily with the exception of my extremely small french only dictionary.
comments off | print this post im not one who believes that people are limited.
fear, doubt, apprehension, suspicion, laziness and preconceived notions about how something is.
you can also use these techniques to simply build speaking fluency.
i started by writing them hundreds of times each until i could recite them without thinking.
sign up for newsletter video regarding the amish language videos on early childhood language learning improve your accent and pronunciation tempe, az subscribe to our rss feed to receive the latest le tutor news and updates instantly!
my response is always that anyone can learn a foreign language.
make daily activities that you would do normally into language learning opportunities.
the amish speak dutch or pennsylvania dutch which is a dialect of german.
comments off | print this post our latest language learning tip video teaches you how to improve your accent and pronunciation in a foreign language.
this short video tells you about the language and how  kid are taught at school.
le tutor language school will offer kids and adult conversational group and private lessons.
im sure since theyve been isolated for near 200 years now that the language has evolved in to a creole of sorts.
watch the news in spanish.
work that kids just saw as part of life and occured naturally for them in their daily activities.
it takes kids 7-8 years before they speak their native language extremely well.
i know some of the future posts will be out of order
we are located on the north east corner of guadalupe and mcclintock on the north side of the frys shopping center.
a brief synopsis of the video: making language studies convenient and easy is very important.
i literally carried it with me everywhere i went for 1.5 years.
but ive never taken the time to find out more about it.
next i created sentences and used all of the conjugations for each pronoun in each tense until is was second nature.
and then you can adjust later.
i think that part of the reason that we think that kids learn easier is because they dont remember how hard it was because it was just part of life.
dont forget tosubscribe to our blog by clicking on the green counter at the top right and please rate our videos at youtube.
ive been thought about this for a long time and these are just some of my personal rantings about kids vs adults in language learning.
early childhood language learning video
im not sure that it is an easier for younger children to learn a foreign language but it does seem that the end result is a more fluid and natural speaker of the 2nd language.
480-626-5180 info@letutor.com kids classes: spanish, french and chinese – $285 (-$35 off for pre enrollment) group classes: spanish, french, english as a second language or esl, chinese, russian and german – $385(-$50 off for pre enrollment) our new address: le tutor language school 1855 e guadalupe a-104 tempe, arizona 85283 written by aaron comments off | print this post would you take spanish lessons from this school?
you can drive by and check us out if you like we are almost open.
slow - when you practice take your time and sound out each syllable.
leave a comment or subscribe to our blog and let us know what you think or what has worked for you.
alphabet and compound sounds – make sure that you know all of the alphabets individual and compound sounds so that you can say them without thinking.
be a copy cat – i know that your mom told you that it isnt nice to be a copy cat but when learning a foreign language it pays.
a very small pocket dictionary.
even then they will be learning it for another 8-10 years depending on their education.
this post alright everyone has been asking for some footage of our new school opening august 4th.
stay tuned for more announcements and photos of our locations remodeling process.
early childhood language learning video 1.
ill also be doing a video tomorrow on site of the progress.
foreign language music or podcasts on your ipod.
language has a humbling effect and probably takes the same amount of time to learn as an adult as it does as a child.
when the going gets tough – when language learning becomes difficult or a chore students often give up or move on.
i removed the video because it was breaking the sites code.
for example if you are in the car and you have satellite radio tune into one of the foreign language stations.
beginners will not want to focus heavily on these techniques but should definitely be aware of them and be using them as they progress.
sign up for newsletter schedulea free class!480-626-5180 subscribe to our email newsletter for news, language, tips and site updates.
often times youll think of a word and then forget it
more coming soonfacebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit written by aaron comments off | print this post le tutor grand opening.
when i was learning french i chose the 6 most common conjugations and learned the different verb types.
i think that language learning is the same way.
http://www.spike.com/video/what-is-your-2nd/2885961 what language do the amish speak?
this is about 2 weeks ago when the builders had already gutted the location and had just put up the framing.
additionally, adults have become accustomed to learning new thing quickly with their increase intelligence and experience.
it took some figuring out but now i now how to edit and format videos to be able to upload them to youtube.
video regarding the amish language written by aaron 1 comment |  print this post i knew the amish spoke their own language
adults learning a foreign language think it is hard because they are more conscious of the effort they are exerting in order to gain this new skill and knowledge.
natural is better - language learning is more natural when it is extemporaneous and in the moment.
it needs to become second nature.
but ive never taken the time to  find out more about it.
if you are interested please call or email us and we will help you get registered for our classes.
do you ever think about 2nd grade and say history, math or english class was hard?
we will have our grand opening party on saturday july 19th 2008 starting at 7pm.
info@letutor.com written by aaron 1 comment | print this post i knew the amish spoke their own language
uber tiny pocket dictionary: i found this dictionary while living in france and fell in love.
however, there a few that you just cant do without.
let me know what you think and if you have any of your own tips.
you may have the words but stumble when it is time to speak because you have not developed the muscle memory or habit.
everything is really coming a long and is starting to look really good.
as long as the school maintains foreign language education throughout the students school life they should graduate with functional language skills.
facebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit written by aaron
comments off | print
spanish, french, english as a second language, chinese, german and russian will be offered.
anyone in the phoenix, arizona area who reads this blog is more than welcome to come and meet our teachers, hang out, play games, eat our food, win door prizes and sit in on some language class demonstrations.
it is important for 2 reasons.
kids just do it because it is part of their life.
tempe, arizona 85283.
the books gives you a lot of vocabulary words that are important in certain subjects but you may have not have thought of because they are more idiomatic or technical words that are uncommon.
facebook - twitter - digg -stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit written by aaron
when you do start to drop syllables or to speak quickly like a native you will sounds even better.
a small notepad always at the ready.
written by aaron comments off | print this post alright so heres another update on the construction of le tutor language school located in tempe, arizona.
because by the time you get home and can look it up youve completely forgot.