el viaje tropical tour to costa rica - butterflies to bromeliads ii, march  19-26, 2005.
because of the potential problems that could develop were the district to accept such a system, "a pressured sewer service in this subdivision is one that should not be assumed for maintenance purposes by the district," said phil starks, sanitation district supervisor.
in step 1, the individual is asked to circle either "yes" or "no."
mother nature has done her part, delivering snow in the higher elevations and heavy rains in lower areas making the fall grasses green up and grow to provide forage for the wildlife.
the community center is open 8 a.m.-5 p.m. monday through friday.
some of the items that will be available are hand painted stationary, book markers and gift tags.
since 809 is not in the u.s. it is not covered by u.s. regulations of 900 numbers, which require that you be notified and warned of charges and rates involved when you call a "pay-per-call" number.
in the northern and southern hemispheres, travelers also can be exposed to the flu during the summer, especially when traveling as part of large tourist groups that include people from areas of the world where influenza virus is circulating.
submit your workshop ideas, proposals, and recommendations to the pagosa springs arts council and let's fill out that calendar!
flu shots due; but vaccine is scarce by richard walter staff writer they're here!
lenard-cook's first novel "dissonance" won the jim sagel award
weather permitting, the north part of the runway should be operational "by the time the snow flies," said fox.
group tickets need to be purchased prior to show dates, with payment sent to flc at one time.
the last game of the day provided a glimpse of what the pirates can do with more consistent defense.
thanks to computers and video games, klauber says, a seven-year-old can drive a car, fight a war, or hit a 90-mile-an-hour fastball.
"we're getting closer to what we want.
and after his defensive performance against durango oct. 1, the demons might think he was more than just one person.
opportunity remains for other businesses, organizations and individuals to get into the act by sponsoring an activity, booth, food or whatever.
forrest made a routine save on rocha as the half wound down with pagosa leading 3-1.
o'donnell sent heat on the attempt and the kick was blocked by redding then recovered in the end zone by armijo for six.
it's a family affair offering everyone the opportunity to socialize, dance  and eat in the great tradition of an authentic german oktoberfest.
"we have to be on our game all the time," he said.
he was 92 years  old.
on election day it will be just you and god in the voting booth.
we are 27-year residents of lake havasu city, ariz., and have seen the benefits of "big box" retail stores.
what is your family background?
"native peoples of the southwest," by trudy griffin-pierce, is a comprehensive look at the native american cultures in our area.
children's tickets include a hot dog, chips and dessert.
"it really helped to talk with rod ruybalid, district wildlife manager in conejos, to understand the demands of the job." john groves, a 2002 mesa state college graduate and wildlife manager trainee, said the recruitment sessions helped familiarize him with the state hiring process.
onion, garlic, celery, tomato?).
schur ran the mancos course in 19:50
a graduate of east high school in pueblo, father alvarez studied for the  priesthood at the conception seminary in conception, mo. and st. paul seminary  in minnesota.
there, in the thick of the forest, and closer to a ridge where the preponderance of bugling seemed to originate, we made camp.
historically, there is a rather precipitous drop in september, and this  year was no exception with a still-decent showing of 4,500.
it's easy to spot the top-shelf oils at the market: they are often darker, frequently green in tint, and they cost a lot more than the lower quality oil.
devil creek (fs) - 18 miles northwest.
sportsman's club to hold clay target shoot the upper san juan sportsman's club will host another in a series of sporting clay target shoots at noon sunday.
informal fun rides will be  scheduled tonight, too.
gallery gift shop the gift shop in the gallery at town park is available to local artisans.
and what can we do to mimic their somatic success?
faye lived through tremendous hardships and poverty and did whatever had to be done to make ends meet.
hart's pat kick missed left, but he connected on a seventh attempt early in the fourth quarter after a 1-yard scoring run by corbin mellette that was set up by a przybylski punt return to bayfield's 26 on the final play of the third.
redding led the defense with 14 tackles, followed by armijo with 11 and shaffer with nine.
this gives ample accommodation for all the pupils enrolled and is a welcome improvement.
another hit, another block by jewell and walkup.
he often uses roads, fence posts, even streams as s-curves and leading lines, taking the viewer farther into the frame.
by chuck mcguire sun columnist darkness lingered as i crawled out of the tent, and the calm early-morning air, while still crisp, felt much warmer than expected.
"we played well again on offense," said coach penné hamilton, "but we still missed too many serves - seven - and we had to adjust on defense.
she always had her cattle, her horses, vegetable  garden and crop of hay.
cost for this fun-filled evening is $10 per person, and all proceeds will  benefit the spanish fiesta club's efforts in the community.
she spent as much time on horseback as on foot and was an expert horsewoman.
a look at the morgue books, an analysis of copies of the sun that go back to its creation, provides insights into what caretakers have shared as well as how the newspaper has changed.
but finally the offense clicked on a teamwork effort.
additional litter - not apparent here, and employees of these large retail stores play an active role in our community clean-up programs.
contact psac at 264-5020 for more information.
bonnie had been in ill health the last few years and resided in the desert treasure residence.
behind 19-10, the pirates used kills from scott, liza kelley (on a back set from walkup) and caitlyn jewell to scrap back to 24-16.
some even remember the questions from the year they tested.
"says market-research guru ted klauber: their lives are so busy, so structured, and so infused with digital technology that they have no time for fun.
game time at monte vista high school is set for 7 p.m. summary bayfield 0 0 0 7 - 7 pagosa 7 21 13 7 - 48 first quarter pag - armijo 1 run (hart kick) second quarter pag - hoffman 60 run (hart kick)
i glanced around, and promptly recognized a clear and present danger, with nothing but a few trees shielding me from a surprised and angry bull, should one decide to charge.
included are 18 volumes of new england historical and genealogy register;  church records, including two volumes of plymouth church records and guide to  episcopal records in virginia; 20 volumes of native american records; land  records; information about the orphan train; ship lists; south carolina  immigrants 1768-1770; winthrop fleet 1630; family genealogies and books on all  wars; general information about genealogy; a slew of books on individual states  and many books on colorado.
david goldman hot springs, ark. domestic woe dear editor: the recent debate gave us some insights into the foreign policy attitudes of president bush.
faye was preceded in death by her parents, samuel and leora teeson, her husband, raymond, her six siblings, and her beloved dog, bobbie.
intermediate painting  skills are necessary.
general population anyone who wants to lower their chances of getting the flu can get vaccinated, if supplies of vaccine are available after october.
momentum continued for pagosa as redding cut short the ensuing bayfield possession with a sack to force an eventual punt from the wolverine 33, pryzybylski returned the kick to near midfield and hoffman broke loose on first down to score from 56 yards out to make it 41-0 pirates at 4:32.
fox indicated official notification of the grant award is expected to be determined during the grant review portion of the colorado airport operators association fall conference scheduled later this month.
for another, he looked beyond technology to address the attitudes that are reshaping children's lives.
john feazel 'big box' beltway dear editor: i read with great interest the recent front page article regarding large box stores coming to pagosa springs.
the art of being bored is lost.'
emilie will get another look at the girl from window rock who beat her at shiprock.
"basketry for gardeners," 9 a.m.-4 p.m. saturday, oct. 23.
durango moved to the brink of a match win with a victory in the third game, again building a substantial lead at the start.
you can view betty's art at the center during the month of november by appointment.
we would like people to send us postcards that show us what your state is like.
please take time to view a list of these "pagosa investors" in the pagosa springs high school football program.
we have heard from  heather hunt of the school within a school - some type of game will come out of  their plans.
edgar lansbury, the keynote speaker saturday, was interesting and  informative and the boosters' production of "the hills are alive . .
presently, there is a straightforward way to define the bush doctrine: countless might call it the testosterone presidency.
in fact, shortly after the first trade center attack, clinton warned americans not to "overreact."
for years we traveled anywhere from 60 miles (kingman, ariz.) to 150 miles (las vegas, nev.) to shop for our children when they were in need of school clothes and other items we couldn't financially afford in specialty shops in town.
in each case, you are told to  call the 809 number right away.
then she repeated a phone number beginning with 809.
people preview profile
san juan river/laughlin (fs) - 10 miles northeast of pagosa springs.
the bush-driven national debt is saddling our children and grandchildren with an unconscionable burden.
ongoing workshops beginning watercolor with denny rose and virginia bartlett, 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. every monday and wednesday at fairfield activities center.
families will have  fun making their tacos together, learning about following directions and adding  ingredients.
one week and the community center has found more witches than it knows what  to do with.
the location is 1.2 miles south of the fairgrounds on u.s. 84.
our youth thank you, our community thanks you.
our letters to the editor column is a freewheeling forum.
only in the mid-19th century, under pressure from united states troops did they begin to hand over their own children to hispanos to raise in their homes.
anyone interested in applying for these positions must meet the minimum qualifications: a degree in natural resources or a related degree in biology, wildlife management, environmental science, range management or zoology.
by karl isberg sun columnist i'm at the recreation center, doing one of the most inane and unsightly things imaginable: i'm riding a stationary exercise bike, pedaling for all i'm worth.
"we pack an incredible amount of information into the 90-minute presentations."
whether you came to visit or were a hired hand, faye would feed you and usually send you away with food to take home.
moe faked a defender , cut right, and then left the ball there for shon as the defender went with him and shon drilled the shot for a 3-1 pagosa lead.
recitation of the rosary was held monday oct. 4 and mass of  christian burial tuesday oct. 5 in immaculate heart of mary catholic church  with father carlos alvarez officiating.
then, the train came off the tracks as the moose surrendered four consecutive points with mistakes.
loujean offers spa pedicures, manicures and artificial nails.
she married raymond theodore brown on oct. 29, 1922, in  pagosa springs.
for more information related to influenza prevention for travelers, visit the cdc traveler's health web site at www.cdc.gov/travel/diseases/influenza.htm.
it was not laid out by the forest service.
spotty pirate blocking kept the home team in the race but the pirates managed to go in front 23-19 with kills from bri scott, jewell and faber and another ace by walkup.
if you're timid, dip a  small piece of bread in the oil and eat it.
jim sawicki polish the stein, find the lederhosen; it's oktoberfest time
i attended all the performances except sunday morning and assisted michael dewinter with his "art of creative costuming" workshop and thoroughly enjoyed myself.
rand led the way for the pirates, taking 13th with a time of 18:54.
curriculum lessons don't just focus on the voting booth, but mesh well with the colorado model content standards and the csap bench marks.
we have also had an amazing response of almost 50 calls on an ad we placed  in a magazine called "true west."
witching is such a glamorous occupation and there is such opportunity for creativity in the dress and makeup.
he was ordained  june 1, 2001.
" four of five boys' varsity runners set personal-best records at mancos.
coordinators say time is well spent in music and games with the goal being in  teaching lessons of lasting value and encouraging children to just "be who  they are.
the door prizes donated by our local merchants at this luncheon are always  outstanding and feel free to call yvonne ralston at 731-9324 or june geisen at  731-5429 if you would like to donate an item or two.
the forecasts for monday and tuesday include a 30-percent chance for widespread showers, highs in the upper 50s to mid-60s and lows in the upper 20s.
"but  then you won't get to sign the register," he said.
she and butch knowlton will explain what and how purchasing the cards helps  cover in terms of backcountry emergencies in the state.
after a pair of pirate attacks went for nought, bayfield evened the score at 1-1 just 3:33 into the game on a juan guzman drive from the right wing.
pirate errors stopped the momentum, however, and durango went ahead 23-22 courtesy four consecutive mistakes on pagosa's side of the net.
almost daily deer could be seen on the fringes of four corners communities, some venturing right into town.
mondays, oct. 11 through nov. 15.
my son trygve lives in arizona and he has finished college.
the hunter's cabin sits near the southeast corner of bob's 40 acres, and its wooden deck overlooks a vast open meadow to the south.
it was not laid out by the  forest service.
the arts council will be at its best with face creating appropriate to the  evening.
mechanical mowing and shredding of small-diameter trees and understory shrubs.
" projects on the airport's "long-term" list include the establishment of a new parallel taxiway, which is not expected to begin until 2007.
stephanie schuler, a wildlife manager trainee, said she took the presenters' advice to heart when they stressed the importance of studying the dow web site.
t35n, r8w, sec. 19 and 30.
tuesdays and thursdays, oct. 14-nov. 18.
then you turn  right and start up.
wednesday, oct. 13 - white cane society, 11 a.m.; flu shots given at center  11 a.m.-12:30 p.m.; canasta, 1 p.m. thursday, oct. 14 - durango trip friday, oct 15 - qi gong, 10 a.m.; nail care by dru, 11 a.m.; pinochle, 1  p.m. saturday, oct. 16 oktoberfest, 4:30-9:30 p.m. at the community center.
what do you like best about the community?
scott scored with an off-speed shot over the block, steen hit an unmanageable serve and kelley put a tip down off the pass.
another genízaro who won status as a vecino was manuel mestas.
by tom carosello staff writer barring weather-related delays, an ongoing schedule of efforts to upgrade stevens field will apparently remain active for at least the next several weeks.
in truth, my activity is fueled at a deep level by the reality of age and is part of a poignant, losing battle to forestall the inevitable.
we just added microsoft publisher to our october offerings and it will be taught 6-8 p.m. mondays and wednesdays oct. 25 through nov. 3.
the girls returned heather dahm to the varsity lineup at mancos, after a two meet absence.
these lvw pamphlets really help clarify what will happen if the  amendments pass.
this is the first time our group has hosted this event, and i'm sure all  the attending communities were impressed and downright overwhelmed with the  professional way in which everything was handled.
five pirate shots on goal were stopped and twice pagosa shooters were over the net - a 20-yarder from moe webb and a 40-yarder from jessie morris.
stuff block: jewell and walkup.
faye was born on march 9, 1905 in chromo, colo., and lived most of her life  in archuleta county.
tickets are $10 general admission, $8 seniors, $8 faculty and staff, and $5 students.
it's not merely iraq, the economy, pandering to big business, the abolishment of laws and policies enacted to safeguard our health and environment, human rights or our role in world affairs, but a question of the honesty, forthrightness, openness and integrity with which the united states government conducts itself both at home and abroad.
"maybe they object to the fact, but state statute says that i am not only the custodian of these records and should maintain them, but that i can also charge a reasonable amount for them," said prior.
for the next four weeks, archuleta county residents can have a direct impact on the future of their land-use regulations by participating in an online survey being conducted by the county planning department.
we have an older one available at the center, please call musetta for details at 264-2167.
there are birth announcements and obituaries.
or give us a call at 264-2835.
the mean moose scored on a pagosa back-court error and kept the pace, one point behind.
she has southern charm and business savvy and the ability to bring people together.
les  linton will discuss what a business plan is and how it can help you manage your  business.
"for the past several years, almost everyone hired as a wildlife manager attended one of our presentations," said dow human resources manager gary berlin, who attends the sessions every year.
the popular bier garten (beer garden) will be back this year, and you can still purchase last year's commemorative beer stein for only $2.50.
in summary, the survey asks residents to assign specific values to a list of "performance criteria" that will be used to evaluate future development proposals within five respective, geographic areas of the county described as "planning districts."
they  take huge amounts of time and effort.
you can find out more information by calling myles gabel at 264-5151, ext.
in the southern hemisphere, most influenza activity occurs from april through september.
the caller then insists that the senior provide a bank account and routing number in order for the grant to be direct deposited.
at present, they are stored until the library addition is finished.
you will be  provided a sound understanding of materials and techniques in the use of color  and design, as well as the varied ways the combination of all of these elements  may be used to foster the student's personal visual expressions.
jewell roared outside to kill for a point.
then a morris chip over the defenders clipped the post and levi gill's drive from 40 yards was stopped.
once again i must assume that this was done because these signs supported the democratic kerry-edwards team.
keep an eye on the weather.
it's not because kerry is  un-american, it's because he's a liberal.
the top of the mountain that we see from down here is not the top of the  mountain.
bonnie recently remarked, "rather than go through life wearing two catcher's mitts, have one hand free to give something back."
they're different climbs, and each one is difficult, although in different ways.
baile de otono you are cordially invited to attend the 2004 baile de otono (fall dance)
we want to take this opportunity in advance to thank you for helping us make learning a fun and rewarding experience.
the projects may include thinning trees and shrubs by hand with chainsaws or with a hydromower or hydroaxe - large tractor-like machines with attachments that turn shrubs and trees into mulch - and then leave a layer of mulched vegetation on the ground to retain moisture and help prevent erosion.
on thursday, oct. 28, the series will conclude with a film specifically prepared for the private viewing of major donors at the august republican national convention.
a healthier, older guy.
i'll hook up with a sardinian real  estate broker via the web and start looking for some land, preferably with  verdant rolling hills.
after forrest stopped rocha, another muirhead to moe webb to shon teamwork move resulted in a shot wide right.
this is just a small example of what having a "big box" retail store can do for your community.
they had parked on the road near our vehicles and climbed the peak from a different route, bushwhacking all the way.
cost is $35 for the class and $5  for supplies.
the series will begin thursday, oct. 14, with "outfoxed: rupert  murdock's war on journalism."
both teams gave up a point with a mistake before jewell went outside for a kill.
meetings are covered, photographers chronicle the scenes and faces of the time; our staff responds to calls for coverage, to tips about stories.
after having watched the current administration over the last four years, i fear for our country, for the very freedom we cherish and for the future of the world.
offers american-made  baskets, pottery and much more through home shows or by ordering directly from  your home consultant, sue anderson.
she was also proud of being recruited for the eastern star and being made grand page.
it's a false peak, and it's maybe 20 feet lower than the real peak.
forrest rackham was the last pirate to score.
- vote - and encourage others to vote - for those candidates whose campaigns engender confidence in our system of government.
at 23:02 he stole a bayfield crossing pass and dropped to keegan smith.
their plates are full and we are hoping for some dry, warm weather around oct. 18 when we blow out the water lines and close all public restrooms - except the bell tower park facility which is geothermally heated for year-round access.
if you are willing to fill a vital need in our community, please call musetta at 264-2167 and volunteer.
with a 7-3 lead, scott slid outside and scored, alamosa committed three costly errors, steen nailed a kill from outside and walkup hit two consecutive aces.
fun on the run how they drive!
lenard-cook will conduct a workshop entitled "naked dreams: why writers don't write."
are you in an enterprise zone?
if you are interested in participating in the creation of this program or if you simply have questions about the program, please call marcus baker at 264-5851.
we finally have a leader who works and the dems just can't stand this.
provides message of unconditional love; 7.
put your teams together now for the upcoming season.
the day after the pagosa peak climb, i hiked to quartz ridge and beyond with another friend.
laitres stressed that a good strategy to successfully maneuver through the intensive testing process would be to attend one of the many recruitment presentations scheduled in october and november.
this scam has been identified by the national fraud information center and is costing victims a lot of money.
he is the recipient of the 2000 national council of literature  fiction award.
it is exceedingly difficult to change or undo constitutional amendments.
alamosa answered with a kill through the block but jewell responded with a solo block for a point.
bigger variety and better prices.
"i was so conservative with my film.
the official issued a yellow card, saying, "i'll call the game, you take care of goalkeeping."
alamosa nearly accomplished the feat, getting a point with a kill from outside that was unmet by a block or a back-row response.
the workshop is designed for writers interested in professional advice from experts in the field and for interested readers as well.
you have to spend money to  raise money.
however, with the announcement of an anticipated major flu vaccine shortage, san juan basin health department is requesting community cooperation in targeting the vaccine to those at highest risk for influenza.
kids today are focused on competition, on efficiency, and on results.
some people keep grousing about how bush has spent more money than anybody else in history, but it takes a lot of money to fix what the extremist democrats have caused while they've lied and partied.
for over 30 years, faye has ridden her horse in the annual pagosa springs fourth of july parade.
it's like  visiting with a friend.
one hand on the wheel, one hand on nonfat double decaf capuccino, cradling  cell phone, brick on accelerator, gun in lap: los angeles.
do you need a refresher course  in computer software applications?
faye never had to herd her cattle, she just called them and they followed.
the senior center will offer free computer classes in the community center computer room tuesdays, 10:30 a.m.-noon.
provocative indie films coming here archuleta inquiring minds (aim), a group of local citizens, is bringing a collection of films to pagosa this month, via dvd format.
horsemen will hear corsar details four corners backcountry horsemen will meet 7 p.m. tonight in the  presbyterian church on mill street in downtown bayfield.
if "2" is circled, in effect the participant is saying it is important that the standard in question should be somewhat encouraged, but not required.
obituariesobituaries faye mattie teeson brown
our pagosa merchants will supply the very latest fashions, and dahrl henley  can always be counted upon to serve only the finest and tastiest food around.
this book conveys the sense of the region as a whole.
the society meets the second sunday of the month in the sisson library.
radio station kwuf will carry the lwv forum live.
hiring referees the pagosa springs recreation department continues to seek individuals interested in officiating soccer, basketball, volleyball and baseball.
the modern democratic party has a deep distaste for any projection of american strength.
kerry said with obvious gestures that he'd bring allies over by paying them off.
'the nutcracker' remember that saturday, nov. 13, is the annual immaculate heart of mary  fashion show and luncheon beginning at noon in the parish hall.
walkup responded with a kill from outside but again the alamosa outside attack found the chink in the pirates' front-row armor.
her presentation, "the truth about freelance writing," will tell writers what the how-to books don't tell about managing time, professional relationships and finances.
arts line arts council president receives state 'arts are the heart' award
hunters who hear or see these machines should keep a safe distance away.
she was proud to be a rancher, a lifestyle she felt was her  destiny.
if you have attended this event, you know we will be entertained by local  musicians who specialize in authentic, lively german music and everyone is  invited to join in the group dances, the chicken dance and just about anything  else they happen to dream up.
it's not just a law enforcement job," holder said.
and it was strength and determination that allowed the team to rebound from an 8-2 demon lead in the fifth game - a game to 15.
i never aspired to bag pagosa peak.
this is a study any reader can undertake, using files at the sisson library.
all levels of classes are offered, from beginning to advanced, as well as popular software applications throughout the year.
a bayfield corner kick and header attack was foiled by forrest and his long clearing kick resulted in a muirhead drive that hit the crossbar.
there were no strangers to faye.
if conditions are right, some prescribed burns may also occur this fall to reduce undergrowth and ground fuels and restore fire to the ecosystem.
our attack was greatly improved.
can they afford to help your organization?
arts linearts line arts council president receives state 'arts are the heart' award
the bike goes nowhere.
by leanne goebel preview columnist barbara neal served on the staff of the colorado council on the arts for 26 years.
the pirates racked up over 400 yards of offense in the win, with armijo completing 12 of 13 passes for 227 yards and two touchdowns and hoffman carrying six times for 118 yards and three scores.
but people kept asking if i had 'done pagosa.'
phone number is 247-2214.
our new sweatshirts are available and are they ever nice; they'll be warm  and cuddly for the winter and will make great gifts too.
i promise you this event will sell out very quickly as it has  done every year, and you will be exceedingly sad to miss such a lovely affair.
cost is $35 for the class and $5 for supplies.
also for the next debate, since kerry is filthy rich and has never worked a day in his life, he has no business talking about jobs and the economy.
many of them had probably been raised in ute homes.
that faith manifested itself in the love that spilled forth onto everyone she met.
she did not understand prejudice and had  friends of all races, religions and social or economic status.
a graduate of east high school in pueblo, father alvarez studied for the priesthood at the conception seminary in conception, mo. and st. paul seminary in minnesota.
her deep faith in her heavenly father was at the core of faye's life.
at the same time, the league suggests those who are tired of negative political campaigning use the power of their vote for positive change.
the association celebrated its last league day of the season sept. 28 with a scramble, playing the meadows and piñon courses with a par 72.
upcoming workshops "durango inkslinger's 10th anniversary workshop," 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. saturday, oct. 9, at the durango arts center, 802 e. second ave., durango, features three noted writers: lisa lenard-cook, candelora versace and pete warzel.
she married raymond theodore brown on oct. 29, 1922, in pagosa springs.
we attempt every week to widen and clean that window.
"but then you won't get to sign the register," he said.
thanks to the league for these nonpartisan educational pieces.
the woman said, "hey, this is karen.
"bad timing," people told me, "doing those two back to back."
again, however, lax defense plagued the pirates and alamosa went on a 6-1 run, succeeding against unclosed blocks, scoring with two aces and putting a weak free ball to the floor in front of pagosa defenders.
" call tammy searle at 731-3143 or virginia humphreys at 731-2937 for answers to any questions or for more information.
i ended up with sore muscles  and aching knees.
courtney steen killed for a second point and caitlin forrest served an ace.
the property is located at 238 and 101 pineview drive off easy street in continental subdivision.
wagner was involved in acquiring the building that now houses the durango arts center.
watercolor basics ii, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m. nov. 3, 4 and 5 at the community center with denny rose and virginia bartlett.
oktoberfest tickets are now available at the chamber of commerce and the community center for $13 presale for adults ($15 at the door), $10 for seniors and $8 for children.
anyone registering after oct. 22, will be put on a waiting list.
pagosa got on track quickly as senior quarterback paul armijo threw to craig schutz for a gain to the bayfield 39, then hit przybylski on consecutive strikes to move the pirates to the 13.
walkup fooled the demon defense, placing an off-speed shot over the block and steen blasted a point from outside.
she  has many years of experience teaching drawing and jewelry making at san juan  college in new mexico.
"bad timing," people told me, "doing those  two back to back."
bull canyon - prescribed burn in the hd mountains south of fosset gulch.
we have also had an amazing response of almost 50 calls on an ad we placed in a magazine called "true west."
the pagosa ranger district rates the area fire danger as "low."
fsr 631 - fsr 629 - fsr 630.
since prescribed fires are dependent on a number of conditions being met, it is hard to predict when these burns may occur.
expect project activity for five to eight days when conditions are right between oct. 15 and nov. 15.
when her mother died during trudy's high school years, she wrote to the tribal chairman raymond nakai and asked him the find her a traditional family she could join.
he will also discuss the importance of marketing information and  how to analyze potential business locations.
these projects are on both san juan national forest and bureau of land management-san juan field office lands and are expected to last throughout the rifle seasons, unless otherwise noted.
the river's historic median flow for the week of oct. 7 is roughly 90 cubic feet per second.
right now, the humane society is involved in a major capital campaign to build their new facility.
this is an unofficial trail.
"you see different things.
lenard-cook's first novel "dissonance" won the jim sagel award for the novel and is the 2004-selected book for durango-laplata reads!
i told flash that i wasn't sure i'd go beyond the false peak.
most of this trade was unauthorized and required a confidential understanding between the trading parties.
identify these people early and build relationships with them.
bayfield keeper ryan wirth, who had an outstanding game, stopped the first blast but moe was right there for the rebound and drilled it.
the need for civic education through this program is demonstrated by the alarmingly low voter turnout throughout the united states, as well as in colorado, and particularly in our local elections.
note that it takes at least three months, and often six or seven, for the file to reach the national personnel records center (code 14) in st. louis after the military obligation has ended (such as by discharge).
durango gave up two points with mistakes and steen killed for a score.
he thinks we need to subordinate our power to the rest of the world.
readers and their interests help define what this community newspaper is and what it will become.
after the requisite amount of oohing and aahing, we sat down in the lee of  the peak to eat our lunch.
volleyball leagues are still being formed.
if you would like to write a note on back it would be appreciated.
by sally hameister sun columnist congratulations and our thanks to the entire pagosa springs music boosters  organization for a most successful weekend of hosting the southwest colorado  community theatre festival.
t35n, r3w, sections 3, 9, and 10.
public and legal notices are printed as part of a newspaper of record.
get out your lederhosen, and get set for  a great evening of fun.
i watched in amazement, as the band of elk progressively approached the small clump of aspens now separating me from them.
that is part one of the test hamilton referred to.
t35n, r6w, sec.6 and 7.
if you are willing to fill a  vital need in our community, please call musetta at 264-2167 and volunteer.
the first of three big game seasons opens here saturday.
"these were the elements of a hidden agenda that surfaced only after he took office.
lunch will be  served as jan brookshier introduces the mission and objectives of the  organization.
mulatos were of mixed spanish-african ancestry, and zambos of mixed indian-african ancestry.
does that necessarily make good policy?
i might even say, 'the last time i climbed pagosa peak.'"
they can't fathom the need for any anticipatory defense of the country.
this one led to a blown chance when jessie morris' crossing lead to moe webb was drilled in stride, but over the net.
great places to do just that abound in pagosa country.
it is imperative that  volunteer leaders be trained and that the organization has a well developed  list of volunteers.
saul furnishings  offers a wide range of services and products including interior design,  decorating, furniture, flooring, window coverings, tile and accessories.
bonnie  was born to morris hyler and dolly confar hyler on may 25, l919, in denver,  colo.
after the requisite amount of oohing and aahing, we sat down in the lee of the peak to eat our lunch.
with 39 seconds remaining on the clock, webb crossed it ahead to brother shon and he drilled the shot for the final 4-1 pagosa margin.
in the meantime, anyone have some sheep for sale?
that quickly, a potential threat was gone, and so was a most dramatic encounter with the great american wapiti.
moore returned the resulting kickoff to the bayfield 35, then worked the wolverines into scoring position at the pirate 9 via completions to minton, jacob posey and lee ramsier.
new books "between a rock and a hard place," by aron ralston, is the survival story of the young colorado man who cut off his own arm to avoid certain death.
america has been ill-used by this administration and the president's self-serving goals.
we did it better tonight than we have so far this year.
it's called spreading liberty.
i told them they had to get every little thing right to win - that if they didn't get them right, durango would use them.
membership speaking of respectable numbers, we have three new members to introduce to  you this week and three renewals.
loujean's salon provides a wonderful atmosphere, great services, and adds retail products daily.
all proceeds benefit the senior citizens of archuleta county, and oktoberfest is a great way to show your support.
sometimes the ones you don't think are going to be pretty good turn out pretty special.
the pan is deglazed with a liquid paired with the choice of aromatics - wines and/or stocks.
to facilitate the flu shot distribution, san juan basin health department has scheduled several off-site clinics in the area, as well as regular shot administration 8-9 a.m. daily in the office at 502 s. 8th st. in pagosa springs.
the meltdown continued for the wolverines less than a minute later as pirate senior richard lafferty gathered in a fumble at the bayfield 35, and armijo hooked up with przybylski just outside the 10 on the resulting pagosa first down.
it's called  enhancing freedom.
since over 1,000 californians signed in at the visitor center, the great  majority must visit us online and make their plans as opposed to requesting an  informational packet, although we know from experience that some do both.
after two more forrest saves, the pirates were on the offensive prowl again.
in the early morning hours of sept. 28, 2004, faye mattie teeson brown left this world peacefully, ready for her next adventure.
- support and work for candidates who are represented by campaigns you believe are informative, relevant and fair.
meanwhile, dawn was at hand, and the clouds in the east took on vivid shades of purple, then fuchsia, and finally a rosy-orange.
ranchers and sportsmen say that they have not seen the usual amount of deer this summer, and that it will take hard work to find the big game.
this is why the planning department needs community participation.
this year's event will be bigger and better than ever, with lower prices  and more food than last year.
our new sweatshirts are available and are they ever nice; they'll be warm and cuddly for the winter and will make great gifts too.
the modern democratic party has a deep distaste  for any projection of american strength.
mule mountain - prescribed burn on 550 acres 23 miles west pagosa and north of highway 160.
dahm finished in 12th overall with a time of 22 minutes, 12 seconds.
we have an older one available at the center, please call  musetta for details at 264-2167.
if you would like to order a pizza or have any questions about dionigi's, please call 731-4258.
bring your dd form 214 (discharge) for registration with the county, application for va programs, and for filing in the vso office.
the workshop is designed for writers interested in professional advice  from experts in the field and for interested readers as well.
it is not known why pregnant women are at higher risk, but pregnancy can change a woman's immune system and affect her cardiovascular system (heart and lung function).
there are also one-day classes offered on selected applications such as "get to know your computer" taught by cynde jackson.
the sweatshirts are  $20, call and place your order today!
that trip leader said blackhead was harder than  pagosa.
a wide angle lens and a magnification lens.
during the second session financial statements will be discussed and there  will be guest speakers from the small business development center.
and i don't ever have to do it again.
he's trying to clean up the mess caused by negligent senators such as kerry.
bonnie hyler teller bonnie hyler teller passed away on sept. 11, 2004, at the age of 85.
orion sandoval took 28th at mancos with a time of 19:50 and he was followed closely by isaiah warren, whose personal best of 19:52 put him in 29th place.
faye had many faithful dogs over her lifetime but bobbie was her favorite.
toss out all but some top-grade vegetable oil for higher-temperature work and cruise with the nectar of the olive, you can't go wrong.
parks jim miller and crew have been busy repairing water lines on the new raw water feed, mowing and doing daily fall maintenance.
instead of everyone coming on one night, different night purchases are allowed, but all tickets must be ordered at the same time.
does this make sense?
carrying 45 pounds on my back and spending nights in a tent, fer gosh sakes.
after the dominguez-escalante expedition in 1776, he continued operating on his own as a trader to the utes until 1805.
"can't you bring it to me?"
we have received 1,907 e-mail requests, 1,094 phone, friend or in-person requests and around 150 through woodall's and aaa ads and referrals.
durango again took the early lead, 4-0, but pagosa struggled to keep apace and, despite some passing problems and sets off the net, the pirates managed to hold the demon advantage to 14-9.
from east to west, the projects are: pagosa springs area burn's canyon (fs) - 14 miles southwest of pagosa springs.
50 years ago taken from sun files of oct. 8, 1954 mr. and mrs. john lynn, proprietors of the spring resort, announced this week that the pagosa hot spring and surrounding property had been bought by two gallup men.
but i'll put 5 percent of  each paycheck into a special account and, when there is enough cash accrued to  book passage, i'll call a travel agent.
riley lynch was next up for the pirates.
the point is, they will try to keep you on the phone as long as  possible to increase the charges.
class projects will include still-life work, portrait and/or self-portrait work, landscape work, exterior/interior work, and copy/inclusion work.
they got them right." saturday will bring even tougher tests and fans will know whether this team has taken a permanent step up in its quality of play.
our summer volunteers have left for the season and we need more help  in getting meals out to our homebound seniors.
per bonnie's request there will be no services.
courtesy of the sisson library, we will have several personalities  - a clown, a princess and a witch - all telling stories to the little ones.
if you haven't found your lederhosen and polka duds yet, it's time to start looking for them.
keep  an eye on the weather.
this celebration begins at 8 p.m. and the entertainment will be provided by the popular band, latin express.
pagosa baseball weddings archuleta matthew and susan archuleta would like to announce they were married sept. 25, 2004, and would like family and friends to join them in a 1 p.m. celebration oct. 9 at aspen springs bar.
the route we took was to drive in on black mountain road off of plumtaw  road for about half an hour.
pres was a cowboy and a rancher.
public records spat irks county officials by tom carosello staff writer is there an internal conflict brewing inside the archuleta county courthouse?
what i know for sure is that dionigi's serves a wide selection of classic italian recipes with a touch of their louisiana heritage.
they were much closer now, and the bull seemed the size of a draft horse.
sports pagesports page pirates paste bayfield 48-7, earn state ranking by tom carosello staff writer
drink wine, reds in particular, ideally grown at an  altitude of more than 2,000 feet.
yes, smaller specialty stores have lost some business, but for the most part businesses have continued to thrive by continuing to serve the needs of the community and by providing the customer service consumers expect.
a request for a copy of the health record should be sent to code 11 if the person was discharged, retired, or released from active duty (separated) on or after the following dates: army - oct. 16, 1992; navy - jan.31, 1994; air force and marine corps - may 1, 1994; coast guard -april 1, 1998.
they would much rather change the subject to health care, the economy, social security - anything but the war on terror.
but barger ran headlong into forrest in the crease after the shot and when there was no call, forrest protested, again.
we are always in need of sponsorship to help pay for our programs, if you wish to sponsor a team, the cost is $150.
by john m. motter sun columnist pagosa country today is an amalgamation of three cultures, anglo, hispanic and native american.
a competent staff and perhaps external professional counsel.
make checks payable to durango arts center and mail to inkslingers  writers' workshop, c/o durango arts center, 802 e. second, durango, co 81301.
green has made a significant contribution to the local community of pagosa springs.
a clear organization self-image and strategic plan.
you feel like you're on top of the world, and in a sense you are.
the wolverines executed a successful on-side kick to begin the second half, then penetrated to the pagosa 17 before pirate sophomore karl hujus defused the threat with a fumble recovery inside of nine minutes to play in the third quarter.
the planning department would like to assemble a team of citizens that consists of developers, a real estate agent, rural land owners, urban land owners, town and county government representatives and a member of the local southwest land alliance.
hunters regard the high-country snows as a benefit in tracking, but the elusive game are generally scouting out their own refuges when they see the influx of hunters scoping the range.
a friend of mine climbed the peak one summer right after she had walked in the 60-mile susan komen foundation march to raise money for breast cancer research.
"riley ran an outstanding race," said anderson.
the principal categories of castas were: mestizos, of mixed spanish-indian ancestry; coyotes in the 18th and early 19th century were children of european fathers and new mexican mothers who might be spanish, indian or mestizo.
the supply packet will include cards and envelopes, book makers and gift tags.
senior sweeper levi gill was credited with 16 solo blocks in a 4-1 pagosa soccer victory at riverview sports complex in durango.
there will be many festivities including a costume contest as well as the  food, games and activities with prizes galore.
i breeze through an article touting the best suvs on the market (i am cautioned to never be misled by "air conditioning, stereos, or a soft ride") and a profile of a ruggedly handsome country western music star i've never heard of and whose music will never grace my playlist.
" survey questions are separated into two parts, "step 1" and "step 2."
les linton will discuss what a business plan is and how it can help you manage your business.
with regard to funding, fox told the board the county is apparently in line for a $250,000 grant that will be put toward additional paving.
after a first reading tuesday night, council members unanimously approved an ordinance establishing the downtown block along pagosa and lewis streets (between 4th and 5th streets) and the archuleta county courthouse as a historic overlay district.
lenard-cook will conduct a workshop entitled "naked dreams: why writers  don't write."
health records of persons on active duty are generally kept at the local  servicing clinic, and usually are available from code 11 a week or two after  the last day of active duty.
if you have a talent to show off, even a joke to tell,  come in before lunch and we'll set up a time for you to perform.
we took turns taking pictures  with each other's cameras.
the day after the pagosa peak climb, i hiked to quartz ridge and beyond  with another friend.
questions in the survey ask residents to consider if the range of items listed, or "performance standards," should be designated as absolute standards or relative standards.
after school fun: jelly beans and squiggly things the jelly beans and squiggly things after-school club sponsored by restoration fellowship opened its third year oct. 6 in pagosa springs elementary school.
if you would like to enter the parade, call bayfield recreation department  at (970) 884-9034.
saves, d-reutschle, 12; p-forrest, 6, guttierez, 1.
as an example: there is a galaxy of variations available when you play off a pan-roasted chicken breast in which the seasoned meat is caramelized in a sheen of olive oil in a heavy pan on the stovetop then finished in a hot oven for 12 to 15 minutes.
plan to bring the whole family to the halloween party on the 29th, and please give some thought to sponsoring an activity that night.
can you put into writing the features and benefits of supporting the campaign?
it is time to roll up the sleeves and prepare for a flu shot - if you're in a category health officials deem critical.
reviewers say this is a brilliantly written, funny, honest,  inspiring and downright astonishing report from the line where death meets  life.
though year-to-date totals are still slightly below average, such amounts are beginning to offset the modest monsoon rainfall experienced in july and august.
who is your audience?
she was preceded in death by her parents, a brother, lloyd j. anderson, and cousins millard and bud seavy.
about half of that route is on graveled streets, but there's much less traffic.
while it is true that hispanics lived for centuries within a few miles of pagosa country, they did not settle in what became archuleta county until the denver & rio grande railroad was built through the county circa 1880-1881.
plan to bring the whole family to the halloween party on the 29th, and  please give some thought to sponsoring an activity that night.
the white cane society will meet here 11 a.m. oct. 13.
the bush administration needs to get serious about social security, national health care, outsourcing of jobs and the discredited "stay the wrong course" solution for iraq.
she is a regionally exhibited artist.
john egan rules broken dear editor: president bush was in a position of defending our country at the same time debating someone who has consistently and systematically betrayed our country in deference to all other countries of the world.
the staff says there are 11 ways the club helps meet the needs of today's  child: 1.
"i've found they fidget too much," he said.
she knows how to throw a party.
in a weaker economy, such as ours, those funds are depleted and there is more competition for those dollars.
tickets are $13 in advance, $15 at the door for adults,  $10 for senior members, and $8 for kids.
in addition to the workshop sessions, participants will have an opportunity to network with the speakers during the included catered private luncheon.
and when the land around lake hatcher was nothing more than a winter camp for cattle.
in all cases the caller begins by explaining that as a taxpayer  the senior has randomly been selected for a federal grant of several thousand  dollars, but before any money can be exchanged the senior must pay an  application fee, usually between $250 and $500.
anderson of allison, colo., nieces evelyn (andrew) anton of corbett, ore., and myrtle snow of pagosa springs.
kerry dermody silence
feedback from business owners within the proposed district has been favorable; a recent town survey indicates roughly 71 percent of business owners are willing to participate in the initiative - far exceeding the required, 51-percent response rate.
prior did not attend tuesday's board meeting, but gave a different account of the situation during a telephone interview wednesday.
black mountain is a rutted, barely maintained road.
subjects include linguistic affiliation, social organization, history, world view, material culture and ceremonial institutions.
for more information contact loujean at 731-7171 or visit her at 301 n. pagosa blvd. b-14 in the greenbriar plaza.
she has given a number of presentations here and is always well attended.
we took turns taking pictures with each other's cameras.
here is a place where several social events and gatherings could take place  at the same time since the room is so large.
green has made a significant contribution to the local community of pagosa  springs.
in order to complete and submit the survey, residents should go to www.archuletacounty.org and click on the link near the bottom of the page titled "survey," then follow the instructions provided.
they can't fathom the need for any  anticipatory defense of the country.
by katherine cruse sun columnist i've done it.
it turned out that for me the crossing from the false peak to the real one  was easy, probably because it wasn't steep.
free enterprise is the backbone of our economy.
for that reason, we have been looking at hispanic history in this area.
to celebrate and commemorate her compassionate work, the colorado arts consortium created "the arts are the heart" award.
this year, the colorado arts consortium honored doris green, president of pagosa springs arts council with "the arts are the heart" award.
"it will be a big field," said anderson, "another fast field.
initially the contest looked to be a battle of field position, but after 10 scoreless minutes the pirates began to take advantage of bayfield miscues and exploded for seven unanswered touchdowns on the way to a 41-point win.
"how to get your book published," 9 a.m.-12:30 p.m. saturday, oct. 23.
pagosa forged two decent leads in the early going in game one - 3-0 and 9-5.
"are 'play dates' - with all of their rules and structure - the best way for kids to have fun with one another?
another shot clinic will be operated 1-4 p.m. friday, oct. 15 at ponderosa do-it-best and still another is scheduled 11 a.m.-12:30 p.m. thursday, oct. 21, at the catholic church in arboles.
weatherweather date high low precipitation type depth moisture 9/29 49 38 r - .34 9/30 57 36 r - .05 10/1 61 30 r - 1.9 10/2 63 37 - - - 10/3 61 35 r - .01 10/4 66 31 r - .01 10/5 58 38 r - .13 rainfall boosts season averages, more expected
i can't tell you how many times i've kicked myself for not taking more shots of the same scene."
muirhead opened the drive with a left-wing steal, evaded two defenders, and led to ormonde racing the middle alley.
log trucks may be encountered on the burn's canyon road.
you'll end up dealing with a foreign company that argues it has done nothing wrong.
it was not laid out by anyone who cares about erosion, bad  knees, or people from lower elevations.
with regard to age requirements, "we use 50 years as a baseline," said tamra allen, the town's historic preservation officer, indicating there is apparently no steadfast rule that applies.
a demon hitting error gave the game to pagosa.
his drive from the left wing off a cross from moe webb, was a perfect loft into the upper right corner of the net for a 2-1 pagosa margin.
there's nothing  wrong with meat.
informal fun rides will be scheduled tonight, too.
this is why the recommendation is limited to children 6 to 23 months rather than all children less than 2 years old.)
no one ever missed a meeting.
they also offer a  children's menu as well as great prices.
john maxon is a visiting instructor of art in the fort lewis college  department of art.
by tom carosello staff writer pagosa springs is one step closer to the creation of a historic business district following this week's town council meeting.
the next meeting will be nov. 4 at la plata county fairgrounds in durango.
for over 30 years, faye has ridden her horse in the annual pagosa springs  fourth of july parade.
youth soccer sponsors
adequate funds to cover fund-raising expenses.
compensation is $10-$25 per game depending on age group and experience.
it can be a quite onerous task in a dark, rainy night, so the halloween party presents a welcome and safe choice and one which the little ones have many activities to enjoy.
this many folks coming to pagosa springs already this year is yet another reminder that we have definitely been discovered.
peggy  maloney holds m.a. and m.f.a.. degrees from the university of new mexico.
prospective students must work in a quick-drying medium, so no oil paint  please.
people have to believe in what you are doing and feel that it somehow benefits them.
the spa  at pagosa springs (264-5910) is offering a 10-percent discount for oktoberfest  attendees for those who prefer to stay in town the evening of the event.
an assessment of the institutional development program and market survey  addressing internal and external preparedness.
the set went up, the hit was delivered.
some people call them death marbles.
still, ongoing blasting and stone removal could lead to delays in that project strip of 30 minutes or more.
participants should plan to have  a minimum of 12 items in the sale, with additional back stock available.
my vote is for kerry-edwards, john salazar for u.s. representative and ken salazar for u.s. senate.
the family gathered at pagosa springs funeral options on sunday, oct, 3,  2004 to say their farewells to pres.
while all this preparation was going on, the deer and elk seemed immune to the threat.
every time we visit we stop in cortez or durango to shop prior to our arrival in pagosa springs.
i'll double my cheese consumption and chase each wedge with some high-altitude wine.
and then there is a third subject - the community center multipurpose room  is usually available during the mornings and the center intends to offer it  free of charge to groups seeking a place to meet provided the use is open to  the general public.
keep your eyes open for  the float on u.s. 160 and cheer on the revelers as they pass by.
i can give you a list of 75 towns in arkansas which were quaint little towns whose very existence was changed by a wal-mart.
in all cases the caller begins by explaining that as a taxpayer the senior has randomly been selected for a federal grant of several thousand dollars, but before any money can be exchanged the senior must pay an application fee, usually between $250 and $500.
while an arts organization may not consider that direct competition, the fact that our community is small and the donor bases for all nonprofit organizations overlap, means this is not a good time to try and launch a huge campaign for something else.
durango made up ground to tie at 10-10 and the teams struggled for the advantage through the middle of the game.
the almont project on colo. 135 (mileposts 5.8-6.1) involves reconstruction and safety improvements with delays possible 6:30 a.m.-7 p.m. weather permitting, contractors say, there could be additional pass closures on wolf creek throughout october.
other business conducted by the council this week included: - approval of consolidation of cornerstone lots 191, 193 and 195 on talisman drive; - approval of an annual state income tax credit review authority agreement; - approval of an intergovernmental agreement with the county outlining the confidential exchange of sales tax information between the two entities; - approval of an intergovernmental agreement with the county indicating the entities will split the costs related to upgrades to cemetery road.
the first is a  cheaper, lighter oil often labeled "pure" and the result of a second  pressing.
i will use more olive oil.
it celebrates agricultural heritage of the pine river valley, the harvest,  changing seasons and return of local sheep herds from mountain grazing.
according to directors, the issue will likely be revisited during the board's next regular meeting.
three years later, the old man was a land owner at la cuchilla.
there are about 350 books covering a wide range of genealogical subjects.
when i sauté meats and/or vegetables, there are many times i will ignore expense and use the highest grade olive oil to take advantage of the greater flavor.
known to almost everyone as pres, he was born in chamita, n.m., sept. 2,  1912, to jose clemaco valdez and maria elena sanchez valdez.
league winners were loretta campuzano, audrey johnson, cherry o'connell, josie hummel, marilyn pruter, barbara sanborn, jan kilgore, sheila rogers, jane stewart, lynne allison, jody lawrence, sue martin and julie pressley.
taylor romenesko c/o peshtigo elementary 341 n. emery ave.
one detailed survey reveals that an optimistic attitude has nothing to do  with longevity.
she is the first to role her sleeves up and dive into a project and the last to leave.
this year adult and senior tickets include a full plate of german food and  a 2004 commemorative pilsner beer glass.
for information, contact renate widder, 699 main avenue, durango, co 81301, or call (866) 453-0005 or e-mail info@strater.com.
helps alleviate some of the isolation and loneliness of being home alone  after school; 4.
they said they preferred that to the more popular so-called trail with its steep eroded sections made slippery by little rocks that act like ball bearings.
this oil is best suited to stove work.
by laura bedard sun columnist the weekend of oktoberfest is almost here!
as for pagosa peak, i can now say, "oh sure, i've climbed it."
of course, many people show up to learn the "chicken dance," and  if you don't know how to do it here's your opportunity.
the event theme is "housing" and there will be fun family  activities and games with the action starting at 5:30 p.m.
in fact, shortly after the  first trade center attack, clinton warned americans not to  "overreact."
- the third season, combined for deer and elk, opens saturday, oct. 30 and continues through friday, nov. 5.
sophomore flanker jordan shaffer made a one-handed grab to set up first and goal at the 5, armijo capped the drive two plays later with a 1-yard run, and casey hart kicked the point after to make it 7-0 pagosa with 41 seconds left in the first.
local groups line up to help with halloween party by pauline benetti special to the preview
sign up in the lounge.
if you have a talent to show off, even a joke to tell, come in before lunch and we'll set up a time for you to perform.
as if that weren't enough, cookies, brownies and hot coffee will top off the evening for you.
the staff says there are 11 ways the club helps meet the needs of today's child: 1.
versace is an award-winning 13-year veteran of the santa fe freelance  writing community and current editor of southwest book views, a literary book  review magazine.
our third new business this week is saul furnishings brought to us by steve vaile and located at 301 north pagosa boulevard, suite b-10.
t34n, r5w, sec. 15 and 16.
finally, make liberal use of olive oil.
as i take new ones, i go back through and pick out the ones i don't like and keep going.
their house was toilet papered and egged as well.
presently, there is a straightforward way to define the bush doctrine:  countless might call it the testosterone presidency.
"i'd say 'wow' is a good way to describe it."
his lead to moe webb was blocked and smith's rebound hit the right post.
not only were tax dollars staying in town, but the retailers gave back to the community in return.
a lot of people have been calling about flu shots and we will have san juan  basin health personnel here 11a.m.-12:30 p.m. oct. 13 to administer them.
i can't afford a ticket to sardinia at the moment
i enjoy all aspects of my job."
kerry has missed 76 percent of the intelligence committee meetings.
or both?" (excerpted from an article by pamela kruger in "fast company," issue 37.)
healing arts highlights panelists sheri r. rochford, special assistant to the president of fort lewis college foundation, and brian wagner, executive director of the durango arts center discussed their experiences with capital campaigns.
records at the national personnel records center.
we are learning about each state and their landforms, environment and special places of interest.
"signature gift and greeting card workshop" with betty slade.
give mercy or pauline a call at 264-5232 to offer your services.
many activities concentrate on broader civic participation: discussion of what government is and how it influences our lives; how citizen involvement shapes public policy; how to inform yourself about relevant issues; the importance of running for and serving in elected office; the value to the community of volunteering; and most importantly, the power of the voting process to sustain the democratic process and improve the lives of community members.
is this what it's all come down to?
it turned out that for me the crossing from the false peak to the real one was easy, probably because it wasn't steep.
the senior board will then meet at 1 p.m. and our  pinochle players meet at 1 as well.
and then there is a third subject - the community center multipurpose room is usually available during the mornings and the center intends to offer it free of charge to groups seeking a place to meet provided the use is open to the general public.
they take huge amounts of time and effort.
the supply packet will include cards and envelopes, book makers  and gift tags.
items should range in price from $15-$350.
" legacieslegacies 90 years ago taken from pagosa springs new era files of oct. 9, 1914
the trail down is a toe jammer, and i beat up one toenail
health records of persons on active duty are generally kept at the local servicing clinic, and usually are available from code 11 a week or two after the last day of active duty.
for example, area rainfall for the month of september amounted to 4.36 inches, well over the month's historical average of 2.06 inches.
jackie remained snug in her bag, but it was still too dark to see if anyone else had stirred, and i couldn't hear any human activity because, as mentioned, the elk were really carrying on, with most of the racket now apparently coming from the meadow just beyond the trees.
the girls' team took second place, finishing behind bayfield.
you need a guide, someone who's been there before, just to find the  trailhead.
i haven't confirmed this with denny, but i understand that dionigi is italian for denny, but i'll have to check on that and get back to you.
she employs a  licensed esthetician/nail tech, elaina kleckner, two licensed massage  therapists, janna voorhis and henry espinosa jr., and will employ a hair  stylist in november.
cost for this program is $20 per child, with second child $10.
jewell swung outside for a kill then stuffed a demon hitter.
some of our partner agencies provide support in time of need, some  help maintain a stable life, and others help prepare for a brighter future.
we can all help in building a caring  community by supporting the 15 local agencies that benefit from united way  funding."
the publishers endorsed bush four years ago, based on the things he promised, not on this smoke-screened agenda.
flc workshops "an introduction to art history," 6-7:30 p.m.
you can use the anderson trail to get to the vicinity.
learn the elements of - and how to write - a convincing query letter; the fundamentals of a compelling book proposal; how to find, and deal with, a literary agent; which publishers to approach for different genres of books; the basics of a publishing contract-advances, rights, royalties, copyright, sales, marketing, etc.; and much more.
please "make your caring count," in any amount you choose, with  your tax deductible donation to united way of southwest colorado, po box 4274,  pagosa springs, co 81147.
dinner will be provided and will be a "build your own" taco bar.
whoever said that the shoulder season wasn't any fun?
the arts council will be at its best with face creating appropriate to the evening.
this two-night course will be offered 7-9 p.m. oct. 20 and 21.
it took us four hours, about twice as long as some people take.
men  have testosterone.
he continues to focus on landscapes, at times adding in a horse and rider somewhere in the shadows.
"so i don't know why they need to consult our county attorneys, what the intent is or what the problem is," she concluded.
a place a child can discuss feelings, values, philosophy or spiritual  values; 5.
faye was the most proud of being a mormon, a religion that she chose at a  young age.
the freshman webb drilled the shot and pagosa had hiked its southwest mountain league record to 5-1.
her salon has been open in this new location since january.
learn the elements of - and how to write - a convincing query letter;  the fundamentals of a compelling book proposal; how to find, and deal with, a  literary agent; which publishers to approach for different genres of books; the  basics of a publishing contract-advances, rights, royalties, copyright, sales,  marketing, etc.; and much more.
thanks for listening to me.
the pirates played again without regular junior offensive midfielder chris baum, still recovering from torn ligaments, and without senior midfielder keegan smith serving a mandatory miss for penalties.
this year will feature the first ever oktoberfest parade, small but maybe the first of another great pagosa springs tradition.
keep your eyes open for the float on u.s. 160 and cheer on the revelers as they pass by.
i will tell you that a number of tickets have already been sold for this event,  so don't tarry.
this is why president bush says he's involved in hard work.
one hand on wheel, one hand on hunting rifle, alternating between both feet being on the accelerator and both feet on brake, throwing mcdonald's bag out the window: texas.
"i have two children.
be very careful and be sure you understand the  wording.
the agenda includes: - call to order/roll call at 7 p.m.; - continental estates ii - sketch plan review re-plat of pineview drive and lots 45 and 46.
the road is open for use, but delays of up to 15 minutes may be expected.
oh, look, i've biked seven miles and i am whipping along at a brisk 12 miles per hour.
for the month of october, the health department requests that only people in the following groups receive flu vaccine: - children 6-23 months old; - people 50 years of age or older; - anyone who has anemia, heart, lung, kidney or metabolic disease; - household contacts of those at highest risk; - health care workers.
upcoming workshops "durango inkslinger's 10th anniversary workshop," 8:30 a.m.-4:30  p.m. saturday, oct. 9, at the durango arts center, 802 e. second ave., durango,  features three noted writers: lisa lenard-cook, candelora versace and pete  warzel.
at the request of county planning and building department staff tuesday, the board of commissioners authorized the formation and recruitment of two citizens' advisory committees - one to provide input on a forthcoming transfer of development rights program, and another to address issues concerning outdoor lighting regulations.
we have been getting ready for an even bigger and better oktoberfest, which  starts at 4:30 p.m. saturday, oct. 16.
we will begin sign-ups and putting together teams directly after youth soccer season has ended.
i consider this such a great  alternative for families who are faced with taking their children door to door  in sometimes cold, inclement weather to do the "trick or treat"  thing.
it was just a heck of a lot of fun to watch everything come together tonight."
as three attackers closed on it, monks appeared from nowhere to drill the ball out of the zone and protect the lead.
i know it has its troubles.
there are several routes to the top of pagosa peak.
walkup annihilated an overpass to start a five-point pirate run.
although going online for information is available, original sources of  information are usually not cited so as to establish validity of the  information.
the work should be completed by the end of october.
john maxon is a visiting instructor of art in the fort lewis college department of art.
but because i value the rich, wonderful taste imparted by a good quality oil.
the only times the home team would take a lead during the match was at the outset of the second game:
finally, at 38:57, pagosa hiked the lead to 2-0 with moe webb scoring on a drop off a breakaway from the ever present gill who had stolen a demon throw-in and beat two defenders before passing off.
though subject to change, the five districts currently proposed are: southwest district (including arboles), southeast district (including chromo and the upper/lower blanco areas), northeast district (including loma linda, and holiday acres), northwest district (including aspen springs and chimney rock) and pagosa lakes district.
the ladies persevered and won eight holes of match play with schutz before the inclement weather canceled the rest of the match.
a community where everyone from 8 to 80 discusses political issues, knows the importance of participating in civic life, is informed, and knows how to be an effective participant.
i am learning a lot and i get to meet and deal with people in the county who are just wonderful.
rate structure after a public hearing that lasted roughly one minute tuesday because there were no comments from the public, the board took no action on the proposed, new district rate structure.
right  now, the humane society is involved in a major capital campaign to build their  new facility.
rackham also set a personal-best record, finishing 51st with a time of 23:37.
i survived the blackhead climb, so i figured this was the summer to do  pagosa.
hold them accountable for content or lack thereof in their campaign materials, advertising, debates and appearances.
"george w. bush: faith in the white house," is an examination of  the president's personal practice of christianity.
in consideration, mike curled up in the back of his suv, as bob found sufficient shelter in his pickup camper.
hot dogs and soda will be served for those staying until 4.
opportunity remains for other businesses, organizations and individuals to  get into the act by sponsoring an activity, booth, food or whatever.
practices are tentatively scheduled for oct. 25-30 with games to begin on or around nov. 1.
because pagosa peak stands pretty much alone, you're higher than anything  else around.
this is the first time our group has hosted this event, and i'm sure all the attending communities were impressed and downright overwhelmed with the professional way in which everything was handled.
"one of their benchmarks is del norte, and they got closer to them at mancos.
a penalty kick by pagosa's kevin blue was wide right
tuesday's announcement of the withdrawal of all flu vaccine produced by an english laboratory will not affect immediate local plans because vaccine already had been purchased from an american production facility.
entertainment will be by the popular band latin express and the dance will  be hosted by montezuma vineyards.
in the sunshine, it can be used equally effectively to reduce glare.
dow seeking wildlife manager recruits colorado division of wildlife human resources personnel and wildlife officers will soon travel around the state as part of the agency's annual recruitment and hiring efforts, seeking individuals who are interested in applying for wildlife manager positions.
it's not because kerry is un-american, it's because he's a liberal.
find all this out and more at tonight's meeting.
cost is $130 or $123.50 for psac members.
tuesdays and  thursdays, oct. 14-nov. 18.
whether you came to visit or were a hired hand,  faye would feed you and usually send you away with food to take home.
democratic girlie-men might wanna git some.
tickets can be purchased at the senior center or chamber of commerce.
summary kills/attacks: walkup 12-32, jewell 9-25, steen 7-36, kelley 6-20 ace serves: faber 2, steen 1 assists: kelley 18, walkup 18 solo blocks: jewell 3, kelley 3 digs: kelley 14, steen 14, forrest 13 pirates kick their way over wolverines 6-2 by richard walter staff writer
"i enjoy taking pictures.
"while we'll be targeting the senior citizens," kleckner said, "the doors will be open to anyone on that day."
flu shot cost will be $20 and the cost is covered for medicare recipients by part b.
in a weaker economy, such as  ours, those funds are depleted and there is more competition for those dollars.
one week and the community center has found more witches than it knows what to do with.
the route we took was to drive in on black mountain road off of plumtaw road for about half an hour.
she has many years of experience teaching drawing and jewelry making at san juan college in new mexico.
crystal petersen, a 2002 western state college graduate, added, "i already had great temporary field experience with the division, but the presentation offered valuable studying tips and an in-depth explanation of the first year on the job." locations, dates, times - alamosa, adams state college, 6-7:30 p.m., wednesday, oct. 27, science and math building, porter hall, room 128; - durango, fort lewis college, 4-5:30 p.m., thursday, oct. 28, brendt hall, room 400; - durango, fort lewis college, 6-7:30 p.m., thursday, oct. 28, brendt hall, room 400; - grand junction, mesa state college, 6:30-8 p.m., wednesday, oct. 20, mesa state college center, krey-ziegel room; - gunnison, western state college, 5:30-7 p.m., tuesday, oct. 19, hurst hall; room 232.
then the chance for rain enters the weekend forecast, as saturday and sunday are expected to bring increasing clouds, a 30- to 40-percent chance for showers or thunderstorms, highs near 60 and lows in the 30s.
bootjack ranch is sponsoring the inflatable bounce house, a favorite of  many young goblins and kiwanis club has confirmed it will provide free hot dogs  and punch good for 500.
"woodworking," 6:30-9:30 p.m. tuesdays and thursdays, oct. 19-dec. 2.
but pagosa responded with five more points in a row.
food for thoughtfood for thought become a shepherd and live longer
whoever said that the shoulder season wasn't  any fun?
double shot latte, one knee on wheel, cradling cell phone, foot on brake, mind on radio game, banging head on steering wheel; while stuck in traffic: seattle.
there will be polkas aplenty with your favorite oompah band playing such favorites as arthur godfrey's "too fat polka" and the traditional "ach, du lieber augustin."
if any factor was dominant in the fourth-game victory, it was composure and a steadiness that has been absent in some of pagosa's matches this year.
so before you make a decision one way or the other i would hope that you weigh the good against the bad.
because of this increased risk, it's recommended that all children (even healthy children) 6 to 23 months of age get vaccinated.
that  faith manifested itself in the love that spilled forth onto everyone she met.
there is a whopping $2 charge for  lifetime access to the computers.
access: county road 500, fs road 649.
in all but the earliest days of the community the sun has been the window through which one views pagosa country.
this year will feature the first ever oktoberfest parade, small but maybe  the first of another great pagosa springs tradition.
commitment of time and support from key participants.
after conducting 40 in-depth workshops with kids (ages 6 to 11) and their parents, klauber arrived at answers that are both refreshing and alarming. "'when i was a kid, i'd roam around on my blue schwinn for hours.
here is where relationships become critically important.
earlier this summer i hiked to the top of blackhead peak, the second highest mountain around here.
then moe and shon webb each was stopped twice as wirth continued outstanding defense.
it belonged to pagosa.
heck, to top off the oil level you can imitate those restaurants that  puddle some super balsamic vinegar in a pool of extra virgin, salt it a bit and  dip into it with bits of bread.
children 6 to 23 months studies have shown that healthy children under the age of 2 years are at increased risk for flu-related hospitalization compared with older healthy children.
of course, taylor does take a few things with him.
my mother lost $50,000 of her $150,000 life savings due to bad advice from her "investment advisor."
the pirates will travel to crested butte friday for a 4 p.m. showdown with the only southwest mountain league team to beat them - a 3-2 overtime loss in golden peaks stadium.
i attended all the performances except sunday morning and assisted michael  dewinter with his "art of creative costuming" workshop and thoroughly  enjoyed myself.
pagosa lakes newspagosa lakes news beware of the 809 phone scam
"i think photographers should protect their locations so people who come after them, or other photographers, get the thrill of exploration.
the program will be by sue schneider of the colorado department of local  affairs and administrator of the corsar card.
(the influenza vaccine is not approved by the food and drug administration (fda) for use in children younger than 6 months.
the pirates became listless for several minutes, settling on long outlet kicks to no one, and counting on defense to save the moment.
hopefully a kerry administration can bring iraq back for the brink of disaster.
with kids voting, adults not only vote in higher numbers, but they volunteer at the polls, talk to students about the elections, and become more involved citizens themselves.
the win improved the pirates' record to 4-1 (1-0 iml) and earned them the no. 10 spot in the class 2a polls, with a pivotal iml contest at no. 6 monte vista looming friday.
such was the postgame summary of friday night's pagosa-bayfield clash from head coach sean o'donnell after his pirates crushed the visiting wolverines 48-7 in the intermountain league opener for both squads.
paul muirhead, working the left wing flirted twice with the possibility of his third goal of the season.
"in the presentation they stress the demands of the wildlife manager position and people learn that the position is a multi-purpose one.
according to the ordinance which gained preliminary approval this week, in order to be eligible for historic designation, properties within proposed district boundaries must exhibit the following characteristics: - they have character, interest of value as part of the development, heritage or cultural characteristics of local significance and are valuable as a part of the heritage of the town.
the board, which is comprised of members of the town council, based its denial of the request on the fact harman park's sewer system is intended to be pressurized.
here are the upcoming shows: - "the diary of anne frank," oct. 7, 8, 9 at 7:30 p.m. and oct. 10 at 2:30 p.m.
the bike will even produce the illusion i am traveling at a certain rate.
we'll see some fast teams and it will definitely help us get ready for the upcoming league and regional meets."
75 years ago taken from sun files of oct. 11, 1929 work of preparing the montroy building for the new piggly-wiggly store is progressing rapidly, but the opening of the new establishment will be delayed for a few days.
for more information, please contact fort lewis college extended studies  program at 247-7385, or visit them on campus at 450 berndt hall, or e-mail at  monson_m@fortlewis.edu or log on to www.fortlewis.edu, click on community &  culture then extended studies.
later she went to work for consolidated  aircraft industries to help with the war effort.
the pirates gained a little distance as jewell stuffed two alamosa attacks at the net and kari beth faber slammed a kill down inside the block.
the community center will again be the forum for this year's celebration, 4:30-9:30 p.m.
just give a call to mercy or pauline at the community center, 264-4152.
for example, one question asks residents to decide if "locating new gravel pits to minimize visual and environmental impacts" should be designated an absolute standard.
the varsity girls leave the start line at 3 p.m., the boys at 3:30.
the session, sponsored by league of women voters of archuleta county, opens with a chance to meet the candidates at 6:30 p.m. followed by the forum at 7.
heretofore unseen, it was he who made all the commotion, as he came prancing onto the scene.
are we spinning off dozens of arts  organizations into their own 501(c) 3 organizations and are we all competing  for the same dollars?
have something important to tell you."
"but everything in this office that is public information is certainly accessible," added prior.
there's a comparison of several brands of trail mix but, since i don't include styrofoam and tree bark in my diet, i am not interested.
it is one of  the first books to provide viewpoints of the native americans themselves as  well as ethno geographic research.
the close scores in the first two games of the match are somewhat misleading: the pirates were clearly the stronger team on offense, using seven effective hitters to attack the mean moose from all points along the net.
" pagosa's pastpagosa's past social upgrading took place quickly in the 18th century
for further information call j.p. at 731- 2295 or nolan at 264-2660.
also expected to begin this week is primary preparation and construction of the new fuel farm site, with completion anticipated within the next four to five weeks.
you will be charged a huge amount per minute.
t34n, r2w, sections 29, 30, 31.
you see i live in the beltway of wal-mart.
we will set up around 1 p.m., with the students coming around 2.
the forest service closes it in the winter, with good reason.
pagosa gave up three points with mistakes but responded with two points on an alamosa serve error and an ace by steen.
it is engaged in making sight-seeing flights with local passengers this afternoon and will return to durango tonight.
the term coyote was used so much more often than mestizo that it appears in many if not most cases to be a substitute term.
here is some very relevant information provided by at&t: don't respond to e-mails, phone calls, or web pages which tell you to call an 809 area phone number.
on the first evening linton will explain the elements of a business plan including what a mission statement is and how to define your business, product or services.
cowardly dear editor: i normally believe a person's political views are their own, not to be intruded upon.
regardless of whether or not this passes the "global test" i'll state that the economy and terrorism are directly linked whether somebody likes it or not; therefore, the debate wasn't set up correctly on this point either and neither will be the next debate.
the event is free to all families but please preregister by calling 264-2835.
artist opportunities "spirit in hand" holiday exhibit and sale at the durango arts  center, dec. 14-24.
they oppose military preemption; they oppose the patriot act; they oppose military tribunals; they oppose virtually every tool that strengthens our security at home and abroad.
don't spend your time on special events unless you have a recognition problem.
contemporary issues  include the repatriation of sacred objects, preservation of native plants and  reservation gambling.
faye was preceded in death by her parents, samuel and leora teeson, her  husband, raymond, her six siblings, and her beloved dog, bobbie.
this group raises funds, supports the participation of the schools, organizes and recruits volunteers to staff the polls, and helps to increase community awareness and involvement in the electoral process.
in a strong economy more money is available for enterprise zones and historical district funding.
education newseducation news family nights resume oct. 14 by livia cloman lynch preview columnist families, come join the fun at the archuleta county education center thursday, oct. 14, at the second in the series of family nights: parent and child together events.
in the rain, he said, the umbrella can be used to keep the camera dry.
depending on their health condition, providers should consider vaccinating travelers at high risk for flu-related complications, especially if they plan to: - travel to the tropics; - travel with large tourist groups at any time of year; or - travel to the southern hemisphere from april through september people 50 years and older who are at high risk for complications from the flu should talk to their doctor before they travel to find out about the symptoms and risks of influenza and whether they should carry antiviral medications with them for either prevention or treatment.
there are ads touting the goods and services of the time.
children feel cared about when an adult listens and accepts their  feelings regardless of what they say; 3.
do you have enough volunteers?
contemporary chance decaf (durango exhibitions and contemporary arts forum) a contemporary art  advocacy group, provides artists an opportunity to engage in contemporary art  issues, and practices including installation and performance works.
in less than three years, the president has smashed the taliban, scattered and battered al queda, jailed saddam, and driven moammar ghadafi to give up his nuclear weapons program.
this group will meet once a week until a draft of the program is complete (12-16 weeks).
this would take in property bounded by the river and park street, reaching 150 feet south of the spring.
not only did they trespass on our property they destroyed our personal belongings and placed a bush-cheney sign in its place, something that we certainly did not want.
pirates beat mean moose for 7th win of season
everybody remembers the successful term of john q. vermillion as principal of pagosa's high school - he's the democratic candidate for superintendent of schools.
instead of everyone  coming on one night, different night purchases are allowed, but all tickets  must be ordered at the same time.
some of our partner agencies provide support in time of need, some help maintain a stable life, and others help prepare for a brighter future.
a four-wheel drive vehicle isn't mandatory, but you'd be a fool to attempt it with anything else.
9 a.m.-3:30 p.m. nov. 18 at the community center.
location of your organization.
nail care by dru, 11 a.m.; blood pressure check, 11 a.m.-2 p.m.; annual elections, 11 a.m.-2 p.m.; annual meeting, 12:45 p.m.; senior board meeting, 1 p.m.; pinochle, 1 p.m. mon.
the wolverines maintained possession and forrest was forced to end the attack with a diving save to his left on nick joswick's drive.
"fowler and lamar have great records this season," said hamilton, "and this will be a good opportunity to evaluate what we need to do before we head to second matches with each of our league opponents.
courtesy of the sisson library, we will have several personalities - a clown, a princess and a witch - all telling stories to the little ones.
a parade will follow at 10 a.m. and be followed itself by the trailing of 2,000 sheep through town on u.s. 160-b and mill street, then south on the buck highway (county road 521).
play will begin this month, so get your teams together today.
all levels of classes are offered, from beginning to advanced, as well as  popular software applications throughout the year.
our focus has been abiquiu because it was the gateway to exploration of pagosa country and to a large extent all of western colorado and utah.
there are some areas where it is really unsafe to walk - or bicycle - for that matter.
the parks department has assisted kenny levine, steve graham, kent lord and the springs maintenance department in trying to landscape one of pagosa's busiest streets.
"i enjoy everything.
should the answer be "no," meaning the participant does not believe such, he or she moves on to step 2 of the question, which requires the participant to assign an importance value to the standard by circling a number from 1 to 5, with 5 being most important and 1 being least important.
sure, i can imagine i am peddling to bayfield and back; i can see the fictional mileage displayed on the control panel.
in the 1789 census of abiquiu, he was enumerated as a genízaro.
i've ripped through a couple articles concerning the "perfect" outdoor vacations, pausing only long enough on a piece about kayaking in vermont to fortify my resolution to remain indoors whenever possible.
it's a family affair offering everyone the opportunity to socialize, dance and eat in the great tradition of an authentic german oktoberfest.
lynch was fifth in the field with a time of 21:09.
fiesta club announces baile de otono the pagosa springs spanish fiesta club has announced plans for a baile de otono (fall dance)
in addition, several issues on the ballot will be discussed oct. 12, including local water concerns, statewide initiatives regarding construction liability, tobacco tax increases, selection of presidential electors and renewable energy requirements as well as referenda for the state personnel system and repeal of obsolete constitutional provisions.
they take that mark to crested butte for a 4 p.m. game friday against the team which administered the lone league loss, 3-2 in overtime sept. 17 in golden peaks stadium.
one bank reported that a client lost over $8,000.
the pagosa/la junta match is the final contest scheduled in round-robin play.
the left will not act, because they  believe preemption is provocative.
on the ensuing possession, shon had a breakaway off a shanked goal kick but his shot was snared by hunstiger.
a little common caution is necessary in some highway locations where shoulders narrow for a few feet because of road curvature.
this award honors individuals working in the arts and in arts management  who make a significant contribution to their local communities, and exemplify  the leadership qualities that made neal's influence special: the ability to  bring people together, a straightforward and articulate manner, honesty, and  caring.
new books "between a rock and a hard place," by aron ralston, is the  survival story of the young colorado man who cut off his own arm to avoid  certain death.
the first workshop is scheduled to take place in the vista clubhouse oct. 20, 7 p.m.
moreover, it helps if you are a shepherd.
the need for the new art building came about when snow collapsed the roof of the old building.
232, or 946-2810 1-5 p.m. monday through friday.
by the time of the 1776 dominguez-escalante trek into utah, abiquiu had become the chief center of trade with the utes and hosted an annual trade fair.
"can't you bring  it to me?"
i got tired of explaining that i hadn't or saying that it was my goal to be the last person in the county to climb it.
t36n,r10w, sec. 28, 29, 32, 33.
walkup crunched an overpass and scott scored with an off-speed shot to the hole.
that includes children 6-23 months of age and anyone who comes in contact with them regularly, and most people over 50 years old.
shots on goal, d-12, p-21.
this group supports people with vision challenges, so come in for information and help if you or someone you know has vision problems.
walkup continued to blast away for points and caitlin forrest slid to the middle for a kill.
by richard walter staff writer you've seen them in the wild - scoping out the likely locations.
spectators will be asked to stay on mill street,  away from the intersection, so the sheep will make that turn without getting  scared and jamming up.
"district wildlife managers are an important part of the presentations as they share their personal experiences with the testing process.
the decision is yours to make in pagosa springs.
- quality of the program and the impact it has on the community.
tickets are $13 in advance, $15 at the door for adults, $10 for senior members, and $8 for kids.
food for thought become a shepherd and live longer
remember, an organization will get most of its money from a cluster of top  donors.
alamosa gave the home crowd only one bit of hope in the early portion of the first game, tying the score at 9-9.
through interactive activities in the kids voting curriculum, kindergarten through 12th-grade students develop critical thinking and information gathering skills.
coming back to town, you'd walk the opposite side of the road, against oncoming traffic - always on the left.
he is survived by his children, della valdez trusdell, helen and paul bennett, pres valdez, jimmy and kari valdez, harold and judi valdez, michael and joanna valdez and charlene valdez; his brothers and sisters, mave valdez, clara martinez, fidelino valdez,and jenny martinez; his brother-in-law, orlando griego; grandchildren wayne blasingim, jaime dean blasingim, erin prokop lucero, matthew prokop, edward bennett, orin anderson, rhonda valdez potts, jesse valdez, chase valdez, michele perez, tanna bristol, phillip valdez, bobby valdez, mikela valdez, dwayne valdez and shelli irizarry, and kenneth valdez; great-grandchildren nicholas and nathan blasingim, lindsey, jaime and mckenzie blasingim, ryan bennett, chantelle valdez latham, tony, jessica and tessa potts, jeff, steven, curtiss and triver bristol, cody bryant, sofia perez, spur james valdez, jesse nicole valdez, brittany marie valdez, hayley rose valdez and sierra rose esquer-irizarry; and one great-great grandchild, bo glasingim.
for the novel and is the 2004-selected book for durango-laplata reads!
cruising with crusecruising with cruse climbing pagosa peak is dreadful but doable
artists creating original, unique gift items in ceramics, jewelry,  fiber, metal, glass, wood, paper, calligraphy, photography, sculpture,  printmaking, painting and drawing are invited to apply.
"how to get your book published," 9 a.m.-12:30 p.m. saturday,  oct. 23.
in preparation for either event, you may want to come in at 11 a.m. to get your blood pressure checked by patty or meet with dru and get your nails painted.
it is lynn's understanding that the new owners of the property plan on making the property into a first-class health resort and vacation headquarters.
"native peoples of the southwest," by trudy griffin-pierce, is a  comprehensive look at the native american cultures in our area.
"i thought we did a nice job of creating opportunities for ourselves on both sides of the ball," said o'donnell, adding that the pirate offensive line was especially impressive.
the boys were in fourth place in their field.
the pan is deglazed with a liquid paired with the choice of aromatics -  wines and/or stocks.
moisture totals amounted to 2.02 inches.
toss out all but some top-grade vegetable oil for higher-temperature work and  cruise with the nectar of the olive, you can't go wrong.
25 years ago taken from sun files of oct. 11, 1979 the name "golden peaks stadium" has been selected by the local sports booster club as the name for the football stadium in south pagosa springs.
there's a  comparison of several brands of trail mix but, since i don't include styrofoam  and tree bark in my diet, i am not interested.
general information
back in goes the chicken and - instead of butter - more of the extra virgin olive oil is added and it emulsifies over heat as the seasonings are adjusted.
apparently, recent attempts by at least two county departments to obtain public records from the assessor's office have failed.
if you haven't found your lederhosen and polka duds yet, it's time to start  looking for them.
intermediate painting skills are necessary.
i've always believed an abundance of false joy and a fake smile get you nowhere and act, instead, as signals of enormous insecurity, it's encouraging to see a blow struck for low expectations, to know that being pessimistic can prolong your life.
father alvarez comes to his new assignment from the san juan catholic  community in the san luis valley where he was pastor of holy name of mary  parish in del norte.
in this course you will discuss art history, the elements of  art and principles of design, various media, and art interpretation with terry  hobbs a visiting instructor in fort lewis college's department of art.
it was not laid out by anyone who cares about erosion, bad knees, or people from lower elevations.
computer classes we have a number of upcoming computer classes being offered during october and november.
they want you to think terrorism isn't serious, that the bush administration is basically making the whole thing up.
meet in the computer room of the community center.
outdoors four-part game hunting season opens saturday
" when did you arrive in pagosa springs?
the breakdown of the top five states is as predictable as the sun coming up  in the morning with texas at 6,000, colorado with 4,100, new mexico at 2,900  and oklahoma and arizona virtually neck-and-neck at 1,847 and 1,834  respectively.
two miles, more or less, and 2,400 feet up, also more or less.
what i then confront is an article purporting to reveal "how to live  longer."
it is one of the first books to provide viewpoints of the native americans themselves as well as ethno geographic research.
all  proceeds benefit the senior citizens of archuleta county, and oktoberfest is a  great way to show your support.
as if that weren't enough, cookies,  brownies and hot coffee will top off the evening for you.
she is survived by: her sons, raymond l. brown of allison and warren joe brown of bayfield; her grandchildren, twila faye brown and brad brown of pagosa springs, dan brown of allison, cindy highland and christy duran of bayfield, connie white and lynn hood of cortez, lance brown and carol fowler of sandy, utah, bruce brown of dayton, ohio, gary brown of hemet, california, and claudia carter of seattle, washington; nieces tinnie lattin and ione patterson of pagosa springs; and 26 great-grandchildren and 13 great-great-grandchildren.
the event is free to all families but please preregister by calling  264-2835.
within minutes, the majestic peaks were aflame with the same colors of the sky, and unexpectedly, an unseen pack of coyotes let loose with a loud and boisterous clamor that briefly rivaled the shrill cries of other nearby bulls.
the better oil is labeled "extra-virgin," comes from a first,  cold pressing and contains less acid than the lesser product.
ours is a sad species, is it not?
watercolor basics ii, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m. nov. 3, 4 and 5 at the community  center with denny rose and virginia bartlett.
there will be a sign on the green gate at the site.
after the war she and frank  moved back to pagosa springs and were involved in ranching (her true love was  animals), later to the san luis valley where they ranched in monte vista and  del norte.
seniors should be advised that there is no federal grant information center  and that no consumer should ever pay a fee before being awarded a grant or  prize.
pres married adelita dolores griego in lumberton, n.m., on april 11, 1936.
this book conveys the  sense of the region as a whole.
after i read this, i get off the exercise bike.
eventually they moved to arizona where she retired from the oracle, ariz.,  schools and had managed the cafeteria.
the local office will be temporarily located at 216 pagosa st. for more information, call jeffrey at 731-5148.
the mean moose comeback was stopped dead in its tracks as liza kelley put the ball down to end the game.
by leanne goebel preview columnist barbara neal served on the staff of the colorado council on the arts for 26  years.
regardless, i will be back.
the need for the new art building came about when  snow collapsed the roof of the old building.
information concerning these hispanics has been taken from "pobladores," written by frances leon quintana.
to celebrate and commemorate her compassionate work, the colorado arts  consortium created "the arts are the heart" award.
new shrubs and grasses that come up following treatments are much more palatable to animals.
"and paul (armijo) did a nice job finding the open man and spreading the ball around.
she will be laid to rest with her  beloved husband, frank, who passed away in l991.
she is survived by: her sons, raymond l. brown of allison and warren
horsemen will hear corsar details four corners backcountry horsemen will meet 7 p.m. tonight in the presbyterian church on mill street in downtown bayfield.
the series continues thursday, oct. 21 with academy award-winner michael moore's "fahrenheit 9/11," a searing examination of the role played by greed and oil in the wake of the tragic events of 9/11.
showings will be free  and open to the public.
though the preference is to have as many residents as possible complete the survey online, all county residents are eligible and strongly encouraged to participate in the survey, whether or not they have internet service available.
it's called enhancing freedom.
cost for the workshop is $50 per person, $35 for current paid members of the durango inkslingers.
"heather was back after being out two races," said the coach.
she always had her cattle, her horses, vegetable garden and crop of hay.
"i told the kids this win probably started monday," said o'donnell after the game.
bonnie was born to morris hyler and dolly confar hyler on may 25, l919, in denver, colo.
paul hostetter should run with the varsity in the next meet and the team should be at full strength.
should you want to put together a table of 10, you must first purchase the  tickets then call mary daltroff at 731-5121 to reserve the table in your name.
this year adult and senior tickets include a full plate of german food and a 2004 commemorative pilsner beer glass.
reinhardt was third overall with a time of 19:50.
we will be playing four-person coed for the upcoming year.
is it necessarily a good thing that virtual technology allows kids to overcome the physical barriers that are associated with childhood?
we still need to get to our blocks and close the blocks, and we'll definitely get the chance to see if we've improved as the week goes on."
durango answered with a four-point run before the pirates responded in kind.
the pirates trailed 9-8.
"adobe photoshop," 5:30-9:30 p.m. monday and wednesday, oct. 25,  27.
and, for most of the evening, neither the pirate or durango demon volleyball teams blinked.
this juried sale will feature fine crafts and arts in the barbara conrad gallery.
four-wheel drive pickup truck, shotgun mounted in rear window, beer cans on floor, prairie dog tails attached to antenna: wyoming.
previous fund-raising success is critically important.
another old friend, sue anderson, joins us this week with her new business, baskets & more!
he now owns two cameras, including one that's fully automatic.
even so, he found it valuable to attend one of the recruitment sessions.
iced tea  and coffee are free, soda pop and bottled water are available for only $1 each.
the run was set up by some of the best digs of the season, most by steen and scott.
people preview profilepeople preview profile pamela ulrikson finance clerk archuleta county where were you born? "phoenix, arizona.
this is the vision behind kids voting colorado/pagosa springs, an innovative civic education program now in progress in the archuleta district 50 joint schools.
there will be polkas aplenty with your favorite oompah band playing such  favorites as arthur godfrey's "too fat polka" and the traditional  "ach, du lieber augustin."
after all, the blunt idiocy of the activity is unavoidable if you flail away on one of these machines with no significant outside input - something to read, a television to watch.
residents can also request surveys be mailed to their households by calling the planning department office at 264-5851 or 264-4785.
work will not occur on the weekends.
." was a total knockout.
the development of this property would be a great boon to the town and would cause a great deal of growth and would certainly be a big help in the winter months when business is slack.
or give us  a call at 264-2835.
as a  young anglo girl from a military family living in florida, she had the desire  to live among the navajo.
know to whom  you will go if you need assistance or advice.
so  badly that i eventually lost it.
things that fill the frame.
- at the end of the process challenge gifts and matching gifts from private foundations such as the boettcher foundation can help your organization reach it's goal.
here's how it works: you will receive a message on your answering machine or your pager, which  asks you to call a number beginning with an area code 809.
you'll end up dealing with a foreign company that argues it has done  nothing wrong.
cost for the workshop is $50 per person, $35 for current paid members of  the durango inkslingers.
a steady breeze had developed, and millions of golden leaves trembled in the branches above.
prospective students must work in a quick-drying medium, so no oil paint please.
this adds 25 cents to hunting  license costs and can be bought separately: $5 for five years.
although going online for information is available, original sources of information are usually not cited so as to establish validity of the information.
they believe john kerry's phony "global test" should come first.
betty slade will demonstrate how to paint a signature christmas card and other gifts.
bite the budget bullet and buy a bottle.
library newslibrary news league's brochure spells out election issues by lenore bright sun columnist maureen covell brought us the league of women voters pamphlet discussing the many proposals on the november ballot.
but a strong  america benefits the whole world.
we work to please as many people as we can, knowing we can't satisfy everyone.
not a hundred yards off, loud and animated bugling echoed over the meadow, but strangely, as i focused on the group's master, it wasn't coming from him.
so i buttoned my jacket, grabbed my binoculars from the jeep, and cautiously sauntered through the aspens toward open terrain, and what sounded like a developing clash among opposing monarchs.
the family gathered at pagosa springs funeral options on sunday, oct, 3, 2004 to say their farewells to pres.
this scam has been identified by  the national fraud information center and is costing victims a lot of money.
bayfield heritage day and sheep trailing event saturday
my concern is president bush's domestic policies.
pagosa was in front 14-11.
i hadn't slept on the ground for about 10 years, but because this year marked the fifth anniversary of jim and sue's wedding at the property, the cabin's quaint sleeping arrangements were reserved for them.
mondays, oct. 11  through nov. 15.
thanks to carol  frakes' son for a dvd about the life of apostle paul.
she will show participants how to explore ambivalence about  writing, help them identify personal writing saboteurs and to give themselves  permission to write.
our new dome tent, on the other hand, offered extraordinary comfort, particularly with three-inch foam pads and zip-together sleeping bags added in.
she also owns and oversees the blanco dove artist and writer's retreat  center on the lower blanco road.
you read of marriages, anniversaries.
genízaros who spoke ute were valued.
others may also be considered.
obviously, other than in utah, we are quite popular with contiguous states as well as our very own.
they  specialize in both sales and design and would be delighted to discuss your  decorating and furniture needs.
in addition, no clogs or spills affected the district collection system last month, said starks.
in the rally-scoring format, a 23-19 lead is tough to overcome.
i breeze through an article touting the best suvs on the market (i am  cautioned to never be misled by "air conditioning, stereos, or a soft  ride") and a profile of a ruggedly handsome country western music star  i've never heard of and whose music will never grace my playlist.
wagner was involved in acquiring the building  that now houses the durango arts center.
it is a dream for me to live there when i retire.
as an artist in the fields of drawing, painting, and  sculpture, maxon has had many solo as well as group exhibitions in not only  galleries but also museums across the country.
united way is focused on organizing the ability of people to care for one another.
clearly, you don't have to give the weather a thought to attend the  pagosa version because you will be cozy and warm in the community center with  plenty of sustenance and indoor plumbing.
the government is under no obligation to research pipe dreams, anyway.
students will need to bring their own brushes, acrylic and  watercolor paints.
climbing pagosa peak is dreadful, but it is doable.
we do so with an able staff and input from our readers - the other key element in a successful, long-lived small town newspaper.
how can the voter do these things?
there was still barely enough light to see, but nevertheless, while scanning left to right, a dark solitary figure suddenly materialized in my field of view.
i have been employed with the parks and recreation department for almost 19 years and i cannot begin to tell you the dollar value of the donations we as a department have received from these "big box" retail stores.
sure, i can imagine i am peddling to  bayfield and back; i can see the fictional mileage displayed on the control  panel.
you can use the  anderson trail to get to the vicinity.
nearly 20 minutes later, pagosa came awake, much of the attack being contributed by the return of chris baum from torn ligaments and a six-game hiatus.
the  cost is $20 or if you are a senior with medicare part b it is free, bring your  medicare card along.
"adobe photoshop," 5:30-9:30 p.m. monday and wednesday, oct. 25, 27.
regarding their participation, they remarked, "we are honored to  represent this united way campaign and look forward to working with the  community to meet this year's goal.
- they exemplify cultural, economic, social or historic heritage.
at&t recommended that no matter how you get the message, if you are  asked to call a number with an 809 area code that you disregard the message.
these were supposed to be for the next two debates.
in addition to helping slow a wildfire's progress and lessen its intensity, these thinning projects will also improve wildlife forage and habitat.
sorry i missed you - get back to us quickly.
he earned a master's degree in business administration and worked in the  marketing field for five years before entering the seminary.
the curriculum does not teach specific information about candidates and issues.
the second half opened with four consecutive solo blocks by gill and a save by forrest.
as hard as it may be to drive by that sign or look at that bumper sticker hold yourself back.
a second clue: fire up the grill and toast some flesh.
absolutely never, i mean never, walk down the middle of any road in the area where there is likely to be traffic.
please, do not bring dogs to the event.
california was the only other state with over 1,000 and, of interest, the states of "around 500 and under 1,000" are kansas, montana, florida and illinois.
i couldn't get enough air."
" what are the most enjoyable and least enjoyable aspects of your job?
expect project activity for 3 to 5 days when conditions are right between oct. 8 and nov. 15.
there is a whopping $2 charge for lifetime access to the computers.
in a strong economy more money is available for  enterprise zones and historical district funding.
our fourth-grade class is currently studying the regions of the united states.
corey williamson added the pat that proved to be the game's final marker and the contest ended four minutes later with the scoreboard reading 48-7 in favor of pagosa.
call psac at 264-5020 for more information.
it's time for the annual oompah-pah wing-ding of the year, the oktoberfest party sponsored by the archuleta seniors, inc. 4:30-9:30 p.m. saturday, oct. 16, in pagosa springs community center.
it can be a quite onerous task in a dark, rainy night, so the halloween  party presents a welcome and safe choice and one which the little ones have  many activities to enjoy.
we have invited students from the junior high and high school to come help, but do not know how many skate board enthusiasts will show up.
she owned signature art gallery in albuquerque, was active with the dallas wholesale show for many years and is the owner of the hi slade publishing company which prints and publishes serigraph and lithograph prints and cards.
they have a variety of pizza selections on the menu  which you can eat right there or place an order to go.
he also likes rules he can take with him in his head instead of carrying lots of extra material.
generally, those will be the only two such shots specified for the most at-risk group, the senior citizens.
some plants will look beautiful backlit by the sun.
hart once again kicked the point after and the gap widened to 28-0 at the six-minute mark.
with the demons in front 18-16, pagosa put on a burst, outscoring the hosts 6-1 and moving in front 22-19.
in preparation for either event, you may  want to come in at 11 a.m. to get your blood pressure checked by patty or meet  with dru and get your nails painted.
for information, contact renate widder, 699 main avenue, durango, co  81301, or call (866) 453-0005 or e-mail info@strater.com.
the moose got four of the points courtesy pirate miscues.
if the answer is "yes," meaning the participant believes locating new gravel pits to minimize visual and environmental impacts should be a an absolute standard required of developers, the participant moves on to the next question.
contemporary issues include the repatriation of sacred objects, preservation of native plants and reservation gambling.
unless otherwise noted all projects are expected to run throughout the entire hunting season.
there were brief signs of awareness, such as the caleb ormonde move in front of goal for a header.
they want their fun to be quick and easy.
people who can give the flu to others at high risk to help prevent spreading the flu to those at high risk for complications from the illness, the following people should get vaccinated if shots are available: - anyone (including children 6 months and older) who lives with someone in a high-risk group; - doctors, nurses, and other employees in hospitals and doctors' offices, including emergency response services; - people who work in nursing homes and long-term care facilities who have contact with patients or residents; - people who work in assisted living and other residences for people in high-risk groups; and - anyone who provides care to those in high-risk groups (including children under the age of 2).
when all is said and done, hot springs boulevard will look awesome.
brings a loving, caring, available, never-forsaking adult into the realm  of everyday reality; 6.
while an arts organization may not consider that direct  competition, the fact that our community is small and the donor bases for all  nonprofit organizations overlap, means this is not a good time to try and  launch a huge campaign for something else.
despite rain clouds, a small group gathered at the middle fork trailhead to hear from taylor, who has also sponsored a photograph workshop at his ranch.
the center is set up for overnight guests,  artist and writer workshops and groups who want to pull away and create.
anderson of allison, colo.,  nieces evelyn (andrew) anton of corbett, ore., and myrtle snow of pagosa  springs.
- a fully developed giving program.
but the drive ended inside the pirate 20 when senior raul palmer pounced on a fumble and pagosa took over at their own 17 with seven minutes to play in the stanza.
and taking them in pagosa country.
the public is welcome to attend.
in previous worldwide outbreaks of influenza (like the pandemics of 1918-19 and 1957-58), there were many deaths among pregnant women associated with influenza.
the fifth bayfield heritage day and sheep trailing will take place saturday.
to date, we have sent a total of 3,137 summer/winter/relocation information packets to folks requesting them over the phone, in person or on line.
fine craft items are the focus of the sale.
you will get a long recorded message.
his antlers were massive, yet he carried them as if they weighed nothing.
he has the two cameras.
group tickets need to be purchased prior to show dates, with payment sent  to flc at one time.
bonnie recently remarked, "rather than go through life wearing two  catcher's mitts, have one hand free to give something back."
praising her team's overall play, coach penné hamilton said "it's nice to go five games with a decent team, and win.
"we can't let down and let our defense carry the load."
then, the one aspect of the pirates' game that had been most erratic this season - blocking - dominated the action.
by kathi declark special to the preview like the proverbial "energizer bunny(ies)," dick babillis and bonnie masters "just keep going" and for the last 10 years in pagosa you could have met them almost anywhere in their various volunteer activities.
also,  if the person has only been released from active duty but is still in a reserve  status, the personnel record will stay at the location specified for  reservists.
that's the latest outlook according to ken fox, county airport manager, who presented archuleta county commissioners an airport activity update during this week's board meeting.
she and butch knowlton will explain what and how purchasing the cards helps cover in terms of backcountry emergencies in the state.
the pirates maintained control throughout the mid section of the game, but did not gain the distance necessary to assure the win.
without the distraction, time (oh, that cruel,  elastic thing) stretches, the clock on the bike's control panel seems to slow  to a crawl, one inevitably begins to wonder if there aren't better things to  do.
surveys are also expected to be available near polling locations during this year's nov. 2 general election.
her presentation, "the truth about  freelance writing," will tell writers what the how-to books don't tell  about managing time, professional relationships and finances.
the cows and calves appeared oblivious to it all, as they ignored the unruly contention in favor of periodic grazing.
citizens  approached by these con artists are encouraged to report the incident to aarp  elderwatch a program with the colorado attorney general and the aarp foundation.
billy black is widening grades and fixing bridges between washington flat and arboles.
alamosa scored its last point of the day with a block before a perfect set went up on the pirate side of the net and walkup fired a tremendous blast from the middle to end the game and the match.
i got tired of explaining that i hadn't or saying that it was my goal to be  the last person in the county to climb it.
pagosa is a combination of ute words meaning smelly water.
discharged -the individual has no current  military status; health - records of physical examinations, dental treatment,  and outpatient medical treatment received while in a duty status (does not  include records of treatment while hospitalized); tdrl - temporary disability  retired list.
the average low was 34.
he'll hand our country over to the un and then party.
faye put the needs and concerns of others before her own; she had a way of making each person feel like the most important person in the world.
alamosa went in front 3-1, then 4-3.
ormonde, with a looper off a corner kick by blue at 74:25 made the score 5-1 for pagosa as the ball sailed with the wind high over wirth's head.
they were also the first non-natives to explore this area and they provided a majority of the place names.
living here is like living in paradise."
barb conkey will be back oct. 11 to help you examine your dreams.
lenore bright will talk about the new addition and the placing of  the collection in it.
gill took the ball all the way back into the attack zone but his shot was wide right.
one hand on the wheel, one hand on newspaper, foot solidly on accelerator:  boston.
rochford highlighted the 10 things an organization should analyze when  determining if it can have a successful capital campaign.
make checks payable to durango arts center and mail to inkslingers writers' workshop, c/o durango arts center, 802 e. second, durango, co 81301.
alamosa's defense did some digging we didn't see from our league teams and hopefully we learned to adjust our defense quicker.
"today we are endorsing his opponent, john kerry, based not only on the things that bush has delivered, but also on the vision of a return to normality."
the second workshop is set for oct. 28, 7 p.m. inside the county extension building.
allows the child to begin to see value in himself or herself and learn  they are loved; 10.
menu friday, oct. 8 - orange chicken, white rice, broccoli, whole wheat roll and  spiced apple sauce and chocolate chip cookie monday, oct.
the top of pagosa peak is a rounded bump.
cost is $35 and they, too, are covered by medicare part b. kleckner said health officials recommend the pneumonia shots, within five years, for anyone over 65 who has had an initial shot.
"we had our best week of practice in three years, and if the kids work as hard as they did this week - who knows?" overall, said o'donnell, it was the most-complete effort of the year, to date.
here is where relationships become  critically important.
get out your lederhosen, and get set for a great evening of fun.
san juan basin health department's flu clinic schedule is posted on the web site, www.sjbhd.org.
it wasn't until they actually penetrated the small aspen grove that i realized the elk, including two very disconcerted bulls, stood only about a hundred feet from me.
oktoberfest is the biggest fund-raiser of the year for archuleta seniors, inc., a nonprofit organization at the senior foxes den senior center.
pagosa scored with kills by caitlyn jewell, courtney steen and lori walkup who also scored with an ace serve on the way to the tie.
this is an opportunity for fine craftspeople and local  artists to share their inspired and creative work with the community during the  holiday season.
deep creek - mechanical hydromowing in the deep creek drainage north of perins peak wildlife area and east of lightner creek.
11- beef stew with vegetables, corn bread, tossed salad, fresh  fruit cup and tapioca tuesday, oct. 12 - chicken, green peas, stewed tomatoes, plums and brownie wednesday, oct. 13 - breaded pork chop, whipped sweet potato, broccoli,  whole wheat roll and apple sauce friday, oct. 15 - pasta seafood salad, three-bean salad, spinach salad and  strawberry ice cream chamber news for all our thespian guests
this course is designed to provide intermediate level students with an even deeper foundation of oil painting.
by richard walter staff writer cramped at a desk all day, your legs aching to be limbered, you think, "right after dinner i'll take a walk.
with a couple more we will have a coven.
you guzzle the oil, you live longer.
it was nice to receive that kind of attention from professionals who care," he said.
by now you have probably noticed the sod installed between the sidewalks and hot springs boulevard.
two miles, more or  less, and 2,400 feet up, also more or less.
you will get a long recorded  message.
the senior center will offer free computer classes in the community center  computer room tuesdays, 10:30 a.m.-noon.
the committee  involved in building the community concert hall met at 6:30 a.m. every tuesday.
one consequence of this development is that their imaginations are beginning to atrophy: play is all about the destination, rather than the journey.
inside the suninside
issues studied, school children ready to vote by windsor chacey special to the sun imagine a pagosa springs where even the youngest citizens know about the coming elections and are excited about their chance to participate.
one hand on the wheel, one hand on nonfat double decaf capuccino, cradling cell phone, brick on accelerator, gun in lap: los angeles.
senior otis rand broke the 19-minute mark for the first time in his short cross country career.
a person can retain a reserve obligation for several years, even without attending meetings or receiving annual training.
tickets are still only $18 and can be purchased at the chamber of commerce.
she was preceded in death by her parents, a brother, lloyd j.  anderson, and cousins millard and bud seavy.
it was a magnificent bull, still a fair distance beyond the trees, but as he swaggered back and forth, i could vividly distinguish six symmetrical points on either side of a hefty rack.
but because kids today have so little free time, and because they're always surrounded by media, they don't explore what's off the beaten path.
it celebrates agricultural heritage of the pine river valley, the harvest, changing seasons and return of local sheep herds from mountain grazing.
california was the only other  state with over 1,000 and, of interest, the states of "around 500 and  under 1,000" are kansas, montana, florida and illinois.
both hands on wheel, eyes shut, both feet on brake, quivering in terror:  from montana but driving in california.
indians covered in this book include pueblos, hopi, zuni, pimans, yaqui, river yumans, the upland yumans, apache, navajo, o'odham and southern paiute.
residents who would like to fill out hard copies of the survey can obtain them at the county planning department, 527 a san juan st. until the completion deadline of nov. 5, 4 p.m., surveys will also be distributed at the county commissioners' office, county clerk's office, county extension building, arboles store, chimney rock restaurant, chromo mercantile, pagosa springs post office, ruby sisson library, turkey springs trading post and the silver foxes den senior center (inside the community center).
this is a very important issue of scam busters because it alerts you to a  scam that is spreading quickly, can easily cost you $2,400 or more, and is  difficult to avoid unless you are aware of it.
the team of loretta campuzano, nancy chitwood and jan kilgore captured first place with a 72; second went to karen carpenter, jane day, kathy giordano and jane stewart at 73.
edgar lansbury, the keynote speaker saturday, was interesting and informative and the boosters' production of "the hills are alive . . ."
11- beef stew with vegetables, corn bread, tossed salad, fresh fruit cup and tapioca tuesday, oct. 12 - chicken, green peas, stewed tomatoes, plums and brownie wednesday, oct. 13 - breaded pork chop, whipped sweet potato, broccoli, whole wheat roll and apple sauce friday, oct. 15 - pasta seafood salad, three-bean salad, spinach salad and strawberry ice creamchamber news theatre festival a knockout for all our thespian guests by sally hameister sun columnist congratulations and our thanks to the entire pagosa springs music boosters organization for a most successful weekend of hosting the southwest colorado community theatre festival.
the women's civic club is making preparations for the annual halloween party, which will be at the carlsbad hall on the evening of the 31st.
the hispanic traders depended on guides who spoke ute and knew ute trading practices.
know to whom you will go if you need assistance or advice.
obituaries faye mattie teeson brown
by karl isberg staff writer the moose were anything but mean saturday as the pirate volleyball team took a 3-0 win in alamosa, 25-23, 25-22, 25-14.
moe stole a demon pass just outside the attack zone and raced to the right wing.
don't forget our new basic computer class at 10:30 a.m. tuesdays with cindy  gowing teaching.
oktoberfest is the biggest fund-raiser of the year for archuleta seniors,  inc., a nonprofit organization at the senior foxes den senior center.
i'm sure you'll find that the positives will outweigh the negatives in the long run.
we can all help in building a caring community by supporting the 15 local agencies that benefit from united way funding."
the property is one of a handful of 40-acre parcels in a quiet and secluded subdivision far up the plateau from montrose.
raymond p. finney 'big box' benefits dear editor: i just read the article on the possibilities of bringing in a "big box" retail store to pagosa springs.
before your organization mounts a  capital campaign it is important to already have in place an annual giving  program or membership drive; a planned giving program, for those who want to  leave money to your organization in a will or trust; a major gifts program such  as endowment; and a prospect research program where you have identified  potential prospects.
a quick set off a steal by morris gave ormonde a header opening but wirth was equal to the challenge.
with regard to county lighting regulations, julie rodriguez, director of county development, told commissioners this week that planning staff "has determined that possible changes are needed and would like direction from the board as to how you would like for us to handle the changes."
for information on these and other veterans' benefits please call or stop  by the archuleta county veteran's service office on the lower floor of the  county courthouse.
faye started a grassroots effort to establish a ward in pagosa  springs, which had previously been only a branch of the mormon church.
the system could then be connected to the district's existing gravity system after final approval by the district board.
her grandfather, welch hyler, and great uncle welch nossaman (brothers-in-law) were two of the earliest anglo settlers and businessmen in archuleta county and the confars were some of the earliest settlers in the chromo area.
by april owens special to the preview oktoberfest is nine days away, oct. 16, and tickets are selling like hot cakes.
historical  district?
speaking on behalf of staff near the onset of tuesday's board meeting, bill steele, county administrator, requested and was granted permission from the board to seek "a legal opinion" regarding the authority of county departments to obtain public records housed inside the county assessor's office.
this course is designed to provide intermediate  level students with an even deeper foundation of oil painting.
the way they said it, i know  they assumed the answer was yes.
please don't become an injury statistic because you "didn't know.
free theatre ticket fort lewis college provides a 10-percent discount on groups of 14, with one additional free ticket to the sponsor setting it up and collecting the funds).
all witches, potential friends and halloween revelers call mercy or pauline at 264-4152.
there was nothing that faye couldn't ride, tame or love.
organizations tend to do better raising money when their constituencies are older, wealthier, better educated and more skilled.
the enrichment of community was neal's main concern; she received the first "arts are the heart" award in 1994.
- the last of the four fall seasons, a limited hunt for both elk and deer, opens saturday, nov. 6, and continues through wednesday, nov. 10.
she will be laid to rest with her beloved husband, frank, who passed away in l991.
the teams traded mistakes and, with pagosa in front 23-20 there were no more errors on the pirates' side of the net.
has an outside professional evaluated the program and have you surveyed staff and community?
well, that didn't take long.
friday calls for more of the same, with highs predicted in the 60s and lows again expected to fall to around freezing.
oktoberfest tickets are now available at the chamber of commerce and the  community center for $13 presale for adults ($15 at the door), $10 for seniors  and $8 for children.
i won't ride that ridiculous stationary bike again.
judy henricksen lake havasu city campaign vandals dear editor: i have always considered myself a rather open minded person and i am willing to listen to other people's opinions.
we are just its caretakers."
our stature in the eyes of the world is at an all time low, our geopolitical policies reprehensible, our economy in ruins, and our integrity and honesty as a world power the object of scorn and contempt.
william r. gray was a writer, editor, photographer, and publisher for more than thirty years with the national geographic society.
his 16th and final takeaway resulted in the final pagosa goal.
ideas wanted the calendar of events is getting shorter which signifies that fall is approaching.
just a minute later durango mounted a serious attack which forrest stopped on a fine move to blank sophomore matt barger.
according to the recommendation of the federal advisory committee on immunization practices the following people are at high risk for complications from the flu and should be vaccinated: - people 65 years and older; - people who live in nursing homes and other long-term care facilities that house those with long-term illnesses; - adults and children 6 months and older who have chronic heart or lung conditions, including asthma; - adults and children 6 months and older who needed regular medical care or were in a hospital during the previous year because of a metabolic disease (like diabetes), chronic kidney disease, or weakened immune system (including immune system problems caused by medicines or by infection with human immunodeficiency virus (hiv/aids); - children between 6 months and 18 years of age who are on long-term aspirin therapy.
what other local issues must be considered?
here is some very  relevant information provided by at&t: don't respond to e-mails, phone calls, or web pages which tell you to call  an 809 area phone number.
durango va clinic the durango va outpatient clinic is at 400 s. camino del rio, suite g, durango, co 81301.
dick noted, after listening to presentations where each of the agencies  described the programs for which they are requesting funding, "it's truly  heartwarming to learn about so many people and agencies in the area who are  quietly working in the background to make this a better place to live.
if you would like to register for classes or need more information, call  the center at 264-2835.
oct. 11 - medicare and drug card counseling, 11 a.m.-1 p.m.; bridge for fun, 1 p.m.; making your dreams work for you with barb conkey, 1 p.m. tuesday, oct. 12 - 10:00 yoga in motion, 10 a.m.; basic computer, 10:30 a.m.; seeds of learning kids sing, 11 a.m.; amateur half hour, 11:30 a.m.
republicans have worked  very hard making bush look like gary cooper in "high noon."
according to fox, the remainder of runway paving operations are tentatively scheduled for completion sometime next spring and early summer.
that last game was a gut check.
if you are interested in providing life-saving skills to people in your  community, then call the southwest colorado chapter of the red cross to sign up  for the fundamentals of instructor training course.
trade was important in the lower chama river valley.
" however, recent rainfall totals and ever-whitening mountain peaks suggest the region may be on the verge of earning a more favorable classification from the usda - "abnormally dry."
i haven't confirmed  this with denny, but i understand that dionigi is italian for denny, but i'll  have to check on that and get back to you.
once roasted, the meat is removed to a heated plate while a bit more of the high-grade oil is added to the pan with aromatics and herbs and spices of one kind or another (to which compass point on the taste map do you want to travel - tarragon, oregano, basil, cumin, caraway, chiles?
bonnie is survived by her son james dennis (jd) and linda teller of oracle;  grandson dennis (jennifer) teller of bisbee, ariz., and great-grandchildren  james and rachel, nephew cdr franklin (martie)
friday the senior board will conduct its annual meeting at 12:45 p.m. with elections from 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
because pagosa peak stands pretty much alone, you're higher than anything else around.
business planning the education center is offering a new class on business planning.
a written document that makes a compelling case for supporting the campaign.
the seeds of learning kids will be here to sing oct. 12, after we have our own amateur half hour.
the cost is $20 or if you are a senior with medicare part b it is free, bring your medicare card along.
the various categories of military service records are described in the chart below.
these can be invaluable in helping raise money.
there will be one unopposed candidate for county commissioner in district 2, republican rhonda zaday; and two candidates for the seat representing district 1, republican robin schiro and independent nan rowe.
parks & recparks & rec skate park work party set friday
pagosa was in front 14-3 and had a grip on the mid-game play - a point in a rally-score game where a team must establish dominance in order to assure a win.
tuesdays, oct. 19-nov.16.
to date, we have sent a total of 3,137 summer/winter/relocation information  packets to folks requesting them over the phone, in person or on line.
george bush continued to display his lack of intelligence, his evasion of the truth and his quick temper.
building plans revised building drawings are in the hands of the town building inspector.
you have to spend money to raise money.
she knows  how to throw a party.
a second dose is required to produce a protective immune response.
" in response, commissioner alden ecker moved to direct planning staff to advertise for a seven-member citizens' committee to review the regulations under the guidance of the planning department.
san juan is spanish for saint john.
neither team could muster much offensively from that point, and punts were the norm until pagosa junior wideout paul przybylski returned a wolverine boot to the pirate 43 late in the quarter.
our dance club meeting brought no interested dancers oct. 28.
it's  not recommended for people with vertigo.
lori walkup began the game with a kill - the first of 12 she would record in the match.
we are indeed lucky to have such a wonderful organization in pagosa springs  and are most grateful to each and every member who worked so hard last weekend  to make it such a great success.
they came in with the railroads and sawmills nevertheless, ancestors of our local hispanics have lived within a hundred miles or so of pagosa country since 1598.
we are asking for your help.
halloween party it will be here before you know it, so do plan to join the big halloween party at the community center 5-7 p.m. friday, oct. 29.
some other tips: marry well (a bad marriage can kill you and/or your  spouse); be conscientious and dependable (memorize and repeat the boy scout  oath); drink coffee; get rich (how a shepherd manages this is beyond me); be  religious (see above, re. scripture); make friends (with friends like mine, i  have questions about this); take some aspirin; enjoy frequent sexual relations  (the author is unclear as to whether or not this requires another person).
the spa at pagosa springs (264-5910) is offering a 10-percent discount for oktoberfest attendees for those who prefer to stay in town the evening of the event.
free theatre ticket fort lewis college provides a 10-percent discount on groups of 14, with one  additional free ticket to the sponsor setting it up and collecting the funds).
vecinos were tithe-paying settlers of española or casta status.
during world war ii, her home was a home away from home for many of the young  men in the service from pagosa springs.
freshman shon breaking with the ball from midfield and leading senior moe.
jim lehrer asked questions meant to put bush in a corner.
this year's theme is "make your caring count," and the campaign goal for archuleta county is $62,000.
he earned a master's degree in business administration and worked in the marketing field for five years before entering the seminary.
another project that may affect hunters is the spreading of gravel on the missionary ridge road from the forest boundary to milepost 10, just above north coon creek.
showings will be free and open to the public.
a  maximum of four slides or photographs must be submitted for the selection  process.
last july 3, she rode for the last time at the age of 99.
we cut and ran from mogadishu.
with every fantasy mile, i tell myself i am a better physical being, a healthier guy.
"it really prepared me for the testing process," she said.
this celebration begins at 8 p.m. and the entertainment will be provided by  the popular band, latin express.
we're very proud of them and their efforts; and we're very thankful to those who have chosen to make an investment in pagosa kids and this community.
"relative" standards are "criteria in the new code that would be encouraged or discouraged" to allow flexibility in the design of a new project, but not required.
call 264-5910 to make your reservation for that night.
very little has changed in the liberal mindset.
a request for a copy of the  health record should be sent to code 11 if the person was discharged, retired,  or released from active duty (separated) on or after the following dates: army  - oct. 16, 1992; navy - jan.31, 1994; air force and marine corps - may 1, 1994;  coast guard -april 1, 1998.
the menu includes bratwurst, including vegetarian brats, german potato salad, and sauerkraut.
in other business this week, the board: - approved an intergovernmental agreement with the town of pagosa springs indicating the county will contribute $315,000 toward the reconstruction of cemetery road, roughly half of the project's estimated cost; - at no cost to the county, agreed to sponsor a pagosa lakes property owners association initiative to seek a great outdoors colorado grant which, if obtained, will be used to fund trail construction along lake forest circle and north pagosa boulevard; - approved the 2005 usda wildlife services agreement regarding predator control and wildlife damage management; - approved a request from andy fautheree, county veterans' services officer, concerning submittal of a veterans of foreign wars grant application aimed at upgrading transportation services for county veterans in 2005.
trails are marked and trailheads have signs detailing the length and difficulty of each route.
put an x after his name on the ticket.
she was proud to be a rancher, a lifestyle she felt was her destiny.
i'll double my cheese consumption and chase each wedge with some  high-altitude wine.
the ability to bring people together, a straightforward and articulate manner, honesty, and caring.
- trends in the local nonprofit sector.
each group is discussed and profiled.
the trail down is a toe jammer, and i beat up one toenail so badly that i eventually lost it.
pagosa plays lamar at 10 a.m. saturday and goes against fowler in the next match.
cards, p-forrest, yellow.
despite the evidence of  virulent global enemies - in russia, spain, indonesia, the middle east and  elsewhere, the democrat reaction is to pretend terrorism is not happening.
we refused to take osama  bin laden when he was offered to us three times by the sudanese.
t35n, r6w, sec. 25, 26, 35, 36.
either route is a very stimulating walk for almost anyone who needs to get the wind in their face, the stresses of the day out of mind, and the muscles flexing again.
any ceo can handle a multitude of items at the same time.
pirate cross country runners continued to work toward peak performance, competing at the mancos invitational oct. 2.
she owned signature art gallery in albuquerque, was  active with the dallas wholesale show for many years and is the owner of the hi  slade publishing company which prints and publishes serigraph and lithograph  prints and cards.
in fact, say the scientists who studied these sardinian shepherds, being grumpy might be an advantage.
cost for this fun-filled evening is $10 per person, and all proceeds will benefit the spanish fiesta club's efforts in the community.
a $10 donation is asked of our seniors for transportation.
his is preceded in death by his loving wife, adelita "della" valdez; his parents, jose and elena valdez; a son, charles valdez; brothers ruben, joe a. and esperidion valdez; grandchildren bobby john blasingim and pamela jo bennett and great-grandson preston potts.
if you're timid, dip a small piece of bread in the oil and eat it.
also on the distant horizon, said fox, is obtainment of an automated weather observation system, or "awos," which fox indicated will probably be delayed "at least another year" if not longer.
hand and mechanical thinning, mowing and shredding of small-diameter pine, juniper, and understory shrubs.
ask yourself if it is positive or negative.
they also offer a children's menu as well as great prices.
the reason you've  been asked to call varies.
reviewers say this is a brilliantly written, funny, honest, inspiring and downright astonishing report from the line where death meets life.
microsoft word will again be offered 6-8 p.m. mondays and wednesdays nov. 29 through dec. 8.
the tdr program would be voluntary for landowners and developers to participate in.
the book will take its place in the annals of classic adventure stories.
a curtis-robin arrived at noon today from durango and landed at the mccartney ranch, just east of town.
apparently, such folks have low cholesterol, thin-walled and supple arteries, a stunningly low incidence of diabetes, the kidneys of a teenager and a resting heart rate in the low 60s.
our friend david mitchell, the late publisher and editor of the sun, had a saying: "this paper is not a business, it is an institution.
bootjack ranch is sponsoring the inflatable bounce house, a favorite of many young goblins and kiwanis club has confirmed it will provide free hot dogs and punch good for 500.
before your organization mounts a capital campaign it is important to already have in place an annual giving program or membership drive; a planned giving program, for those who want to leave money to your organization in a will or trust; a major gifts program such as endowment; and a prospect research program where you have identified potential prospects.
please "make your caring count," in any amount you choose, with your tax deductible donation to united way of southwest colorado, po box 4274, pagosa springs, co 81147.
for updates on current fire danger and federal fire restrictions, call the pagosa ranger district office at 264-2268.
well you know what they say about assuming.
a pair of completions by moore and power running from seth minton moved the wolverines into pirate territory on the ensuing possession, but heavy pressure on moore from pirate senior marcus rivas resulted in an interception at the 35 by teammate jake redding.
sure, there are other flavorful oils that can and should be used in some dressings, but it is hard to beat a vinaigrette with a top-of-the-line extra virgin olive oil as the base.
the climb to quartz ridge, although strenuous, was a piece of cake in comparison with the one the day before.
bold and confident, his authority was obvious, as he constantly kept vigil over his self-possessed harem.
in this course you will discuss art history, the elements of art and principles of design, various media, and art interpretation with terry hobbs a visiting instructor in fort lewis college's department of art.
find out what  your dreams are telling you.
the left will not act, because they believe preemption is provocative.
"it's nice to play out of league," she said.
newcomer, or old-timer, you are invited!
or a fence or rock - almost anything that can help keep the camera steady.
the sweatshirts are $20, call and place your order today!
sure, there are other  flavorful oils that can and should be used in some dressings, but it is hard to  beat a vinaigrette with a top-of-the-line extra virgin olive oil as the base.
if you complain, both your local phone company and your long distance carrier will not want to get involved and will most likely tell you that they are simply providing the billing for the foreign company.
her credits include new mexico magazine, the santa fe new mexican, art of the west and more.
downtown historic district a step closer
"of course, child-development experts have worried for years about the impact that television has on creativity.
interment followed in hilltop cemetery.
was a total knockout.
the  hotline is staffed 9 a.m.-4 p.m. monday-friday at 1-800-222-4444; press option  2 for aarp elderwatch.
"it's always a tough place to play, and i know without a doubt they'll be playing their fannies off to beat us," he added.
when her mother died during trudy's high school  years, she wrote to the tribal chairman raymond nakai and asked him the find  her a traditional family she could join.
her salon has been open in  this new location since january.
the  dollars raised here stay in archuleta county to support the local community.
manual mestas was recommended in 1805 for the usual interpreter's pay by the governor.
adult tickets are $13 in advance or $15 at the door; senior tickets  are $10, and tickets for children aged 5-12 are $8.
i cut my leg, swinging it too carelessly over a downed tree across the trail.
one hand on the wheel, one hand on newspaper, foot solidly on accelerator: boston.
with every fantasy mile, i tell myself i am a better  physical being, a healthier guy.
senior news senior board's annual meeting is friday
the author presents the great cultural vitality and living dynamic nature of these groups including their contemporary situations.
breastfeeding mothers it is safe for breastfeeding women to get vaccinated.
meanwhile, continued screening gradually revealed a dozen cows and calves in the great stag's presence, and at once, all appeared to be moving in my direction.
it was mid-september, and, as in most years, we were there to witness changing fall colors, and the gathering frenzy of rutting elk.
the teams traded kicks with gill and barger respectively stealing pass attempts.
there's a small pile of rocks to  indicate the highest point, and tucked in among the rocks is the register, a  plastic bottle with lots of scraps of paper, and a pencil.
during the second session financial statements will be discussed and there will be guest speakers from the small business development center.
rochford helped raise the money to build the community concert hall at fort lewis college, the new art building, and the center for southwest studies, when consultants told the college it couldn't be done.
has an outside professional  evaluated the program and have you surveyed staff and community?
by april owens special to the preview oktoberfest is nine days away, oct. 16, and tickets are selling like hot  cakes.
there is heartening news.
some of them have only 20 minutes of free time a day.'
two hands gripping wheel, blue hair barely visible above windshield,  driving 35 on the interstate, in the left lane with the left blinker on:  florida.
forest thinning, burns could affect the hunt several projects are underway on san juan public lands that may affect hunters.
the win left the pirates with a 7-2 overall record heading to durango tuesday night for a match with their 5a rivals.
in addition, the board indicated public hearings will be conducted prior to the potential adoption of any regulation changes.
alamosa never got close as the pirates shot out to a 7-1 advantage with two kills and an ace by steen and successful attacks by jewell, walkup and scott.
they oppose military preemption;  they oppose the patriot act; they oppose military tribunals; they oppose  virtually every tool that strengthens our security at home and abroad.
but, in exchange, it will result in the closure of grocery stores, optical shops, beauty salons, hardware stores, produce markets and even some automotive shops.
heck, to top off the oil level you can imitate those restaurants that puddle some super balsamic vinegar in a pool of extra virgin, salt it a bit and dip into it with bits of bread.
we were camped for a long weekend on a friend's property atop the uncompahgre plateau, and this year, jackie and i joined bob, the land owner, our nephew, mike, and my brother and sister-in-law, jim and sue.
bite the budget  bullet and buy a bottle.
in response to lynch's assertion, "no, they are not being denied information," said prior.
here's how it works: you will receive a message on your answering machine or your pager, which asks you to call a number beginning with an area code 809.
don't forget the date:  friday, oct. 29, 5-7 p.m.
ihm parish welcomes new pastor by mary jo revitte special to the sun parishioners at immaculate heart of mary parish and missions this week  welcomed the rev. carlos a. alvarez as pastor.
he remembers chopping ice from the river for an ice house.
it is no else's business how you vote, but remember how much there is at stake.
provides bible lessons with real people who have both failed and  succeeded.
based on what transpired during this week's board of county commissioners' meeting, the likely answer is "yes."
- over-the-counter combined deer and elk season will be saturday, oct. 16, through sunday, oct. 24.
the average high temperature recorded last week in pagosa springs was 60 degrees.
also underway on wolf creek, but nearing completion, with only minor delays expected, are the paving project on the west side from treasure falls upward; and the tunnel project on the west side where equipment maneuvering could cause delays.
our third new business this week is saul furnishings brought to us by steve  vaile and located at 301 north pagosa boulevard, suite b-10.
the sun county seeks volunteers for pair of citizens' committees by tom carosello staff writer archuleta county is looking for a few good volunteers.
and early tuesday evening, pagosa displayed the confidence, racing to a 1-0 lead in just 44 seconds over bayfield's soccer team on a bitter cold wolverine stadium field.
obviously, other than in utah, we are quite popular with  contiguous states as well as our very own.
america can no longer act unilaterally with impunity.
provides bible lessons with real people who have both failed and succeeded.
thus, if you're walking on snowball road, for example, and you're heading out of town from where sidewalks end adjacent to the forest service headquarters, you should be walking on the left side of the road.
all current members are invited and encouraged to bring a friend who might  become a friend.
he is the recipient of the 2000 national council of literature fiction award.
how many terrorist attacks were there?
kelley put a roll shot down for a point but a serve error and a ball hit out allowed alamosa to get within one - 19-18.
senior bri scott nailed a point off a block and steen scored from the back line.
we will try  it one more month, so please jot down the next dance club date, nov. 30 at 3  p.m. and show up with your dancing shoes and byom (bring your own music).
but, i remind myself, stripped of motivational illusions the activity has a purpose: better health.
they said they preferred that to the more popular  so-called trail with its steep eroded sections made slippery by little rocks  that act like ball bearings.
after the war she and frank moved back to pagosa springs and were involved in ranching (her true love was animals), later to the san luis valley where they ranched in monte vista and del norte.
artists or patrons interested in promoting the visibility and understanding of contemporary art through exhibitions, performances, happenings and educational events can call jules masterjohn at 382-0756 for more information.
people who provide essential community services (such as police officers and firefighters) should consider getting a vaccinated to minimize disruption of key public-service activities during flu outbreaks.
some of  the items that will be available are hand painted stationary, book markers and  gift tags.
these are just some of the books to show the wide variety in the  collection.
we have the following volunteers coming to help out with this community event; nate loper (first assembly of god church), cliff lucero, stan martinez, and john perea (county solid waste department), john king, and john steinert (juan's mountain sports).
"planning staff would like to know if the board prefers that we again follow this method for changes," said rodriguez, "or would prefer that staff make the changes, then present them to the planning commission for recommendation to the board.
by tom carosello staff writer is pagosa country pulling out of its drought nose-dive?
he remembers riding around the upper piedra in a horse and wagon, even being dumped out of the wagon.
here is a place where several social events and gatherings could take place at the same time since the room is so large.
all clay target shooters are invited regardless of skill level.
many current wildlife trainees agreed.
our obligation is to the future.
oklahoma and, here's a surprise, missouri were the only other two states that  requested over 100.
you read about local residents marching off to wars, about club meetings and charitable activities.
the pirates then have a long drive back home to host ridgway in a 1 p.m. contest saturday.
i am definitely in the groove with this one - not just for health reasons but because i value the rich, wonderful taste imparted by a good quality oil.
phyllis decker, of the forest service, took the blame for the lack of sunshine, and after swapping stories for awhile, the group abandoned the idea of photographing fall colors - the original intent - and traveled back to taylor's ranch on the upper piedra to get a glimpse of his slide show of pictures spanning at least two decades.
by kathi declark special to the preview like the proverbial "energizer bunny(ies)," dick babillis and  bonnie masters "just keep going" and for the last 10 years in pagosa  you could have met them almost anywhere in their various volunteer activities.
there are key donors in a community and they must be  involved from the beginning.
it's always a beautifully executed event and tons of fun.
turn there and come back to town along that path through the mill creek drainage, past the old light plant site, along the catchpole farm property and you'll soon find yourself back at the town hall and community center where the sidewalks resume.
entertainment will be by the popular band latin express and the dance will be hosted by montezuma vineyards.
pagosa's lead grew to 13-0 seconds later as junior running back josh hoffman knifed through the wolverine defense for a 60-yard score on first and 10 from the 40, and hart added the extra point to put his team up 14-0 with 10:36 till the half.
the goodies produced by the roasting process are scraped up into the liquid and the amalgam is reduced to a near syrupy consistency.
cut back on the amount you eat by 10 to 20 percent.
since over 1,000 californians signed in at the visitor center, the great majority must visit us online and make their plans as opposed to requesting an informational packet, although we know from experience that some do both.
or does it create what he calls "adults of all ages"?
warzel balances two distinct sides of a working life, writing, and  business.
note that it takes at  least three months, and often six or seven, for the file to reach the national  personnel records center (code 14) in st. louis after the military obligation  has ended (such as by discharge).
sixty-three properties are located within the proposed district's boundaries, and while not every building will qualify for historic designation, more than enough will apparently meet the required criteria.
how can business thrive and people borrow to own a home if they have to compete with the u.s. government?
not yet, according to the latest drought classifications issued by the u.s. department of agriculture, which continue to describe archuleta county as being in a "moderate drought.
call 264-5910 to make your  reservation for that night.
they must have their card in hand when getting the shot.
for a newspaper to turn its back on a homegrown hero speaks volumes about that person.
until you  reach that saddle that lets you look down on the anderson trail.
lunch will be served as jan brookshier introduces the mission and objectives of the organization.
the lone star iconoclast, crawford, texas' local newspaper, the president's hometown paper, and a newspaper that endorsed the current president four years ago, has endorsed john kerry and john edwards "wholeheartedly" (you can read the endorsement at www.iconoclast-texas.com).
and faye fed everybody.
let's make this distinction.
unfavorable publicity about the project can halt  progress before you even get started.
thanks to carol frakes' son for a dvd about the life of apostle paul.
this would help us get a first hand look at your state.
witching is such a glamorous occupation and there  is such opportunity for creativity in the dress and makeup.
"the great colors don't occur every year.
this adds 25 cents to hunting license costs and can be bought separately: $5 for five years.
more next week on the history of our hispanic forefathers.
an assessment of the institutional development program and market survey addressing internal and external preparedness.
voter forum on general election issues oct. 12 a commissioner candidate and ballot issues forum preceding the nov. 2, general election will be held tuesday, oct. 12, in the extension building at the county fairgrounds.
they specialize in both sales and design and would be delighted to discuss your decorating and furniture needs.
the first is a cheaper, lighter oil often labeled "pure" and the result of a second pressing.
"does such freedom from physical limitations produce smarter, faster kids?
do you need a refresher course in computer software applications?
sorry i missed you - get back to us  quickly.
should you want to put together a table of 10, you must first purchase the tickets then call mary daltroff at 731-5121 to reserve the table in your name.
her navajo experience led her to a career in writing and teaching.
the band begins playing at 8 p.m. cost is $10 per person.
glancing upward, i was certain thick clouds were responsible for the curious clemency, but only a few lenticulars stretched over the glowing eastern horizon and high snowy peaks to the south.
my husband and i have visited your town yearly for the past seven years and own residential property there.
it is imperative that volunteer leaders be trained and that the organization has a well developed list of volunteers.
call 731-8060  to reserve a spot for only $25.
the mainstage theatre.
runway paving to begin at airport
at&t recommended that no matter how you get the message, if you are asked to call a number with an 809 area code that you disregard the message.
after i read this, i get off the  exercise bike.
jim sawicki community newscommunity news polish the stein, find the lederhosen; it's oktoberfest time
toward the end kerry broke the rules of the so-called debate by mentioning the so-called sciences of global warming and stem cell research; therefore, president bush won by default alone.
narraguinnep -- prescribed burn on 150 acres about 9 miles southeast of dove creek and a mile east of bradfield bridge.
in less than three years,  the president has smashed the taliban, scattered and battered al queda, jailed  saddam, and driven moammar ghadafi to give up his nuclear weapons program.
there are minor exceptions, but they can be overcome and good six-plus-mile circular routes out of town and back can be found.
" cards of thankscards of thanks baseball support on behalf of over 150 local youth, a huge thank you to all pagosa businesses and individuals that made the 2004 season one to remember.
this course, held nov. 13-14, will provide you with the skills necessary to teach first aid, cpr and much more.
according to the latest forecasts provided by the national weather service office in grand junction, mostly-sunny skies and highs in the 55-65 range are in today's forecast, along with evening lows in the 30s.
the committee involved in building the community concert hall met at 6:30 a.m. every tuesday.
so,  dance yourselves silly and stay in town.
if you have already received a letter from dick and bonnie, please take a  moment to reflect on how the represented agencies have or could support you,  your families, your employees and your friends and contribute generously.
stem cell research just fattens the industry of institutional premeditated mass murder which is abortion.
this is not very intelligent, and it means he knows nothing about our country's intelligence.
in the early morning hours of sept. 28, 2004, faye mattie teeson brown left  this world peacefully, ready for her next adventure.
i am definitely in the groove with this one - not just for health reasons
it's important to prevent becoming a victim of this scam since trying to fight the charges afterward can become a nightmare.
that's an open invitation to be hit because drivers from either direction have no idea where you'll go when they attempt to pass.
if that had been privatized she would be receiving $350 per month.
this voluntary program would offer financial incentives to the landowner in exchange for the property's development rights.
ability and readiness of major donors to give substantial lead gifts before any public announcement of campaign.
"playtime has morphed into what klauber calls a 'digital wonderland - a fast-moving, goal-oriented zone that affords "little time for aimless fun.'
she receives $550 per month in social security.
the bush administration's desire to privatize social security makes no sense.
by karl isberg sun columnist i'm at the recreation center, doing one of the most inane and unsightly  things imaginable: i'm riding a stationary exercise bike, pedaling for all i'm  worth.
microsoft applications like word and excel are taught by dick babillis.
kari faber killed off the demon block, steen hit an ace then nailed a point from the back row.
emilie schur was second in the field.
health and personnel records.
he will also discuss the importance of marketing information and how to analyze potential business locations.
dinner will be  provided and will be a "build your own" taco bar.
participants should plan to have a minimum of 12 items in the sale, with additional back stock available.
hunters on four-wheelers and hunters looking for the best camp sites.
there can be little doubt.
throughout the season, the participants continued to post their scores each time they improved their previous best score for each hole.
horses, taylor said, don't work well.
durango scored twice to extend the advantage to 16-12, but that would be the last hurrah for the home team.
the demons got a point off the block.
- at the end of the process challenge gifts and matching gifts from private  foundations such as the boettcher foundation can help your organization reach
after that, staying on the trail is pretty easy, because so many people are using it.
summary scoring: 1:47, p-s. webb pk; 38:57, p-m. webb, assist gill; 45:25, d-huntstiger, assist m. webb; 79:21, p-s. webb, assist gill and m. webb.
przybylski hauled in five passes for 143 yards and one touchdown.
during world war ii, her home was a home away from home for many of the young men in the service from pagosa springs.
on a month-long trip to the timpanagos utes (near provo, utah), the 70-year-old mestas had recovered a number of stolen horses by parleying with the utes, thus avoiding bloodshed.
the  meeting this month, oct. 10, will be held at 1 p.m., a change of time from the  regular 2:30.
public comment is welcome and encouraged.
jan kilgore, league president, thanked board members, tournament chairmen, league members, club pro staff and greenskeepers for a great year.
he was also an avid reader.
one initiative expected to begin this week is the paving of the airport runway.
the home team roared back in the second game, leading from the outset.
it can only be done if your current shopkeepers are willing to take a substantial, and i mean substantial, loss of business which ultimately will result in their stores closing.
personalize your gifts and packages this year with watercolor and acrylic images.
drink wine, reds in particular, ideally grown at an altitude of more than 2,000 feet.
but wirth nailed the ball with a leap and on the next possession, pirate keeper caleb forrest was called upon for an equally tough stop on guzman.
at 54:38 the webb boys were at it again.
lettersletters kerry impresses dear editor: i was very impressed by john kerry at the first presidential debate sept. 30.
memorial donations can be made to the san juan historical society museum, p.o. box 1711, pagosa springs, co 81147.
for each category there is a code number.
"'when parents talked to us about their childhoods,' klauber says, 'they had a sense of wonderment.
"after the presentation was over the presenters were more than happy to stay and answer all our questions.
with respect to monte vista, "they've got another great football team over there and they put together a nice win tonight," said o'donnell, referring to monte's 47-6 victory friday at centauri.
and, 163 canadians traveled quite a  way to visit, and the collective german, england and "other" category  combined for a respectable total of 765.
there's a narrow ridge about 200 feet long between the two peaks.
the pirates reached the end zone for the fifth time four plays later as armijo rolled right and threw to the flats for przybylski, who used key downfield blocks to jet 70 yards and put his team up 35-0.
the forum is for information only, and is not a public debate.
microsoft word will again be offered 6-8 p.m. mondays and wednesdays nov.  29 through dec. 8.
she was  also proud of being recruited for the eastern star and being made grand page.
texas,  of course, comes in with the highest number at 670, colorado with 518, and  california, arizona and new mexico coming in at the nicely graduated numbers of  192, 182 and 172 respectively.
fund-raising objectives based on legitimate institutional plans,  goals, budgets, and needs.
first came kmart then came wal-mart and soon those out-of-town trips came to halt.
as the elk warily drew closer, i took advantage of what low light remained, and quietly edged nearer the brink of the meadow.
jewell and walkup stole the game and match from durango as the demons attempted to attack from outside - a move that, with several quick sets in the middle - had been a go-to play throughout the match.
what other local issues must be  considered?
before entering the seminary, father alvarez graduated from the university  of notre dame in south bend, ind.
don't forget our new basic computer class at 10:30 a.m. tuesdays with cindy gowing teaching.
jose presciliano valdez jose presciliano valdez died friday, oct. 1, 2004.
healing arts highlights panelists sheri r. rochford, special assistant to the president of fort  lewis college foundation, and brian wagner, executive director of the durango  arts center discussed their experiences with capital campaigns.
depart denver saturday, march 19 calendar oct. 5-30 - trio exhibit: joycelyn audette, katherine barr and lisa  pedolsky at durango arts center oct. 9 - inkslingers writing conference, durango art center oct. 22-24 - durango arts and crafts conference at the strater hotel oct. 23 - writer's group meets noon-5 p.m. at jerry hannah's oct. 24 - salon at jerry hannah's with local writers, artists, musicians  begins at 1 p.m. nov. 3-5 - watercolor basics ii, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m., community center nov. 5 - outsider art: visions from the edge, reception with the artists,  durango arts center 5-7 p.m. nov. 11-12 - perspective workshop, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m., community center nov. 5-dec. 10 - outsider art: visions from the edge at durango arts center.
don't ever dial area code 809, 284 or 876.
texas, of course, comes in with the highest number at 670, colorado with 518, and california, arizona and new mexico coming in at the nicely graduated numbers of 192, 182 and 172 respectively.
susie kleckner, office administrator, said the vaccination program at the office will start tuesday, oct. 12.
be very careful and be sure you understand the wording.
we  learned our lesson with tabor.
bring your dd form 214 (discharge) for  registration with the county, application for va programs, and for filing in  the vso office.
donations we thank cynthia sharp and ralph and sam goulds for donations to the  building fund; albert and lis schnell in memory of joan young.
has the freedom of expression been ripped down to stupid halloween like pranks?
all current members are invited and encouraged to bring a friend who might become a friend.
the home crowd sensed victory, but pagosa fought hard at the end of the game, making the win more difficult than many expected.
other items will be on hand to paint such as checkbook covers, floor  coverings, lampshades, and tote bags.
it's important to prevent becoming a victim of this scam since trying to  fight the charges afterward can become a nightmare.
if you have already received a letter from dick and bonnie, please take a moment to reflect on how the represented agencies have or could support you, your families, your employees and your friends and contribute generously.
delivery of steel that will be used in hangar construction, said fox, is probably "four to six weeks out.
" what did you do before you arrived here?
the motion carried unanimously, and planning staff later clarified that volunteers chosen to review the regulations will not be charged with "reinventing the wheel.
the dollars raised here stay in archuleta county to support the local community.
allows the child to begin to see value in himself or herself and learn they are loved; 10.
"when i first started taking pictures," he said.
ideas wanted the calendar of events is getting shorter which signifies that fall is  approaching.
due to the lopsided margin, the officiating crew invoked "the mercy rule" early in the fourth quarter, which kept the clock running almost continuously throughout the remainder of the game.
bonnie was a loving person who devoted her life to her family and friends.
ongoing workshops beginning watercolor with denny rose and virginia bartlett, 9:30 a.m.-12:30  p.m. every monday and wednesday at fairfield activities center.
"jessica is still coming back from her injury," said anderson, "and she performed well." sophomore laurel reinhardt stayed solid at mancos as the pirates' no. 2 runner.
turn east on greenbriar drive, past the fire station on north pagosa boulevard.
no reproductions or color copies allowed.
churches are prominent in reports of services and social activities.
editorialeditorial our institution this week, the pagosa springs sun is 95 years old.
sign up at 8 a.m. in joe stephenson park in old downtown  bayfield for $15.
our old friend, denny barber, has done it again with a restaurant, and, in tandem with the wildly popular hogs breath restaurant, he now brings us dionigi's italian café located just east of hogs breath and his other business, silverado clothing, at 117 navajo trail drive.
the development rights sold by one landowner would be bought by a developer or another land owner to allow more intense development in the urban areas.
proposed projects identified in stark's report tuesday included consideration of upgrades to the east u.s. 160 main line extension, upgrade consideration for the main line between south 5th and south 6th streets and a pending analysis of the district collection system involving global-positioning system mapping.
jessica lynch ran her second race after being absent due to injury.
this election has four proposed changes to the state constitution.
these changes may place a pregnant woman at increased risk for complications from the flu.
since there are so many new area codes these  days, people unknowingly return these calls.
eligibility for upgrading was determined by the possession of tithable property, adherence to the catholic faith and by behaving like fellow colonials.
saves, p-forrest, 9, b-wirth, 13.
a four-wheel  drive vehicle isn't mandatory, but you'd be a fool to attempt it with anything  else.
once roasted, the meat is removed to a heated plate while a bit more of the  high-grade oil is added to the pan with aromatics and herbs and spices of one  kind or another (to which compass point on the taste map do you want to travel  - tarragon, oregano, basil, cumin, caraway, chiles?
besides, i've gotten higher than pagosa  peak (elevation 12,600) just by hiking the continental divide trail from wolf  creek to silverton.
each film will begin at 7 p.m.
"i'm excited to go down to new mexico.
in fact, say the scientists who studied these sardinian  shepherds, being grumpy might be an advantage.
until you reach that saddle that lets you look down on the anderson trail.
he  thinks we need to subordinate our power to the rest of the world.
the dow has a rich tradition of recruiting talented and dedicated professionals to manage colorado's wildlife resources.
the books have been donated to the library by members of the archuleta county genealogical society and the society itself.
thanks for materials from  carole and bob howard and sandy kobrock.
award winners for the season were: - cherry o'donnell as most improved golfer (she went from a 21.3 to a 17 handicap); - cherry o'donnell, most birdies (5); - sue martin, most chip-ins (5).
this award honors individuals working in the arts and in arts management who make a significant contribution to their local communities, and exemplify the leadership qualities that made neal's influence special:
our summer volunteers have left for the season and we need more help in getting meals out to our homebound seniors.
nearly everywhere he went he carried a camera.
in most cases involving individuals no longer on active duty, the personnel record, the health record, or both can be obtained from the same location, as shown on the chart.
one never knows in the  advertising/marketing game when something is going to strike an unexpected  chord, and clearly this one did.
we refused to take osama bin laden when he was offered to us three times by the sudanese.
"i was the customer service supervisor for the galleries of neiman marcus.
the program is implemented by a kids voting steering committee of community, business, education leaders and volunteers.
we don't have the population numbers to draw from.
dolores area indian camp (blm) - mechanical mowing in area adjacent to the indian camp subdivision west of crow canyon.
both hands on wheel, eyes shut, both feet on brake, quivering in terror: from montana but driving in california.
for a complete listing of all of our program offerings, please stop by the archuleta county education center located at 4th and lewis streets.
the two sets of design standards to be considered in the survey are identified as "absolute" and "relative" standards.
red cross offers instructor training for first aid, cpr
they want you to think terrorism  isn't serious, that the bush administration is basically making the whole thing  up.
space is limited and advance reservations are  suggested.
so, dance yourselves silly and stay in town.
for instance, the rule of thirds, which says that placing the center of focus for the photograph slightly off center either vertically or horizontally will make a more visually interesting photograph.
" marcus baker, associate county planner, stated the committee's primary responsibility will most likely be to provide feedback on "minor changes to existing language" in the current outdoor lighting regulations.
power point xp is being taught 6-8 p.m. monday, oct. 18 and  wednesday oct. 20.
does it give good reasons to vote for a specific candidate or does it merely tear down the opponent?
walkup converted a poor pass with a cross-court kill and an alamosa hitting error gave the game to the pirates.
he got out of photography after returning from world war ii and then picked it up again once the photography club started having an annual contest, "even though i don't like some of the winners," he said.
the day will start with a 5k run at 8:30 a.m., sponsored by pine river early learning center.
the library will be closed monday for columbus day.
i dive into the article and i want to share some things with those of you who have passed both the "i'm bulletproof and immortal" stage of adolescence and early adulthood, and the "i don't need to worry about it yet" phase of early middle age.
moore completed a fourth-and-goal pass to loren morrison inside the 10, but morrison was stopped by pirate junior linebacker bubba martinez and pagosa took possession at the 4 with 1:29 to play and moved to midfield before the half ended with the lead holding at 28.
as has become the pirate signal, the initial call went to the webb boys.
two hands gripping wheel, blue hair barely visible above windshield, driving 35 on the interstate, in the left lane with the left blinker on: florida.senior news senior board's annual meeting is friday
the teams tied at 17-17, 18-18, 20-20 and 21-21, the pirates getting earned points on a block by jewell and walkup, a kill by walkup and a point off the block by scott.
there are articles about politics and business; columns illuminating diverse interests, experiences and personalities in the community - grange reports of yesteryear, chatty gossip from outlying farm and ranch areas, news of subdivisions, stores and banks.
bayfield got that goal back at 76:37 with ludwig scoring unassisted after forrest went far out for a loose ball and couldn't get back to the empty net.
suddenly, a somewhat comfortable advantage had disappeared and pagosa was in front 18-16 as the endgame began.
i heard over the weekend that attendance at the oktoberfest celebration held in germany recently was down 40,000 people due to the cold, rainy weather conditions.
it was early that first morning, as i stood in the predawn darkness beneath the mighty hunter, orion, that i wondered if anyone else had awakened and might be up for a walk.
one never knows in the advertising/marketing game when something is going to strike an unexpected chord, and clearly this one did.
she employs a licensed esthetician/nail tech, elaina kleckner, two licensed massage therapists, janna voorhis and henry espinosa jr., and will employ a hair stylist in november.
durango's 22nd point was a mystery when no call was made as the demon setter grabbed the ball and pushed it over the net for a score.
first non-indian settlement in archuleta county was accomplished concurrently by anglos and hispanics.
can all these organizations unite  to build a cultural center?
if you have attended this event, you know we will be entertained by local musicians who specialize in authentic, lively german music and everyone is invited to join in the group dances, the chicken dance and just about anything else they happen to dream up.
some of the surnames you see in an early paper are repeated over the years.
"the boys did well with their fourth-place finish," said anderson.
"when klauber started this project, he had no initial hypothesis - only a commitment to exploring an infrequently asked question: how is digital technology (and the lifestyle issues that go along with it) affecting young children's "sense of fun, play, and thinking"?
as an example: there is a galaxy of variations available when you play off  a pan-roasted chicken breast in which the seasoned meat is caramelized in a  sheen of olive oil in a heavy pan on the stovetop then finished in a hot oven  for 12 to 15 minutes.
interesting shots of his favorite mountain - toner - named after his grandfather.
this friday evening, oct. 8, at montezuma's vineyards and restaurant.
our old friend, denny barber, has done it again with a restaurant, and, in  tandem with the wildly popular hogs breath restaurant, he now brings us  dionigi's italian café located just east of hogs breath and his other  business, silverado clothing, at 117 navajo trail drive.
there's a small pile of rocks to indicate the highest point, and tucked in among the rocks is the register, a plastic bottle with lots of scraps of paper, and a pencil.
realistically, it makes absolutely great policy.
in further discussion of the matter, mamie lynch, board chair, described the apparent unwillingness of the assessor's office to provide requested public records as "an ongoing situation.
first flight (14-24 handicap) winners were jan kilgore at 107 and josie hummel at 111; second flight (25-28 handicap) winners were audrey johnson at 126 and loretta campuzano at 127; third flight (39 and over handicap) winners were robin alspach at 135 and jody lawrence at 140.
seniors and  their families can call the aarp elderwatch consumer hotline and speak with a  counselor to discuss consumer issues and request additional information.
t32n, r1w, sections 16 through 22.
if you haven't been able to raise significant funds from volunteers and donors, how can you expect to raise hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars?
there are so many newcomers in our growing community, many of you did not  receive a personal letter inviting you to support this year's campaign.
those of us who work at the sun are part of a succession of owners, publishers, editors, writers, salespeople and printers who have labored 95 years to fulfil as best they could the mission of the community newspaper.
wednesday should bring a return to clear skies but cooler conditions, with highs forecast in the 50s and lows predicted to drop below freezing.
some examples of performance standards residents are asked to consider include "avoiding commercial and industrial development over 20,000 square feet" and "designating critical wildlife habitat to be in open space.
forrest scored from outside and pagosa had a tie at 13-13.
there was also a "ringer tournament" played on the meadows, piñon and ponderosa courses with a par equivalent of 107.
i cut my leg, swinging it too carelessly over a downed tree  across the trail.
as in, "you've climbed pagosa peak, right?"
durango led 9-2 and never looked back.
father alvarez comes to his new assignment from the san juan catholic community in the san luis valley where he was pastor of holy name of mary parish in del norte.
" summary kills/attacks: walkup 9-16, steen 7-20, kelley 4-14 assists: walkup 14, kelley 9 solo blocks: jewell 4, kelley 2 ace serves: walkup 4, steen 2 digs: forrest 9, walkup 9 pirates defeat demons in 3-2 thriller by karl isberg staff writer it was a shoot-out.
i am helped along this particular day by a magazine article i read as i  pedal.
fall volleyball leagues we need teams.
i see no  easier way to keep all this good work going than to generously support the  united way."
oktoberfest it's time for the annual oompah-pah wing-ding of the year, the oktoberfest  party sponsored by the archuleta seniors, inc. 4:30-9:30 p.m. saturday, oct.  16, in pagosa springs community center.
pagosa chapter audubon's newest adding to the many wonderful activities in pagosa springs, birdwatching has established a new niche in the area.
pag - hoffman 56 run (kick failed) fourth quarter pag - mellette 1 run (hart kick) bay - minton 7 run (williamson kick)
the final score, 6-2, resulted when moe webb broke free at midfield, raced the right wing behind a screen from blue, and dropped a pass to shon working the lane blue opened.
why not add staying young and healthy to the list?
it can be to receive information about a family member who has been ill, to tell you someone has been arrested, died, to let you know you have won a wonderful prize, etc.
but they are  out searching for various body parts.
other topics addressed by fox tuesday included agreements with private citizens related to the construction of new hangars, which fox indicated are nearing completion.
" said lynch, "i know it's been going on for four years.
the kids voting program is provided to the schools at no cost and is funded through the generosity of local organizations and businesses such as rotary, kiwanis, bank of the san juans, 1st southwest bank, la plata electric, rio grande savings and loan, wells fargo, and the league of women voters of archuleta county.
library news league's brochure spells out election issues by lenore bright sun columnist maureen covell brought us the league of women voters pamphlet discussing  the many proposals on the november ballot.
it's not uncommon for individuals to test several times before receiving a permanent job offer.
since there are so many new area codes these days, people unknowingly return these calls.
and, as has been their wont in recent contests, the pirates got on the board early, shon webb showing the way with a penalty kick at 1:47 that had demon junior keeper adam reutschle baffled.
emphasizing depth and size.
as in, "you've climbed pagosa peak,  right?"
and for dressings, break out the extra-virgin oil.
aarp elderwatch and the attorney general warn seniors of federal government  grant scheme: in the past two weeks, aarp elderwatch has received calls from seniors who  have been offered grants through the "federal grant information  center."
after school fun: jelly beans and squiggly things the jelly beans and squiggly things after-school club sponsored by  restoration fellowship opened its third year oct. 6 in pagosa springs  elementary school.
anyone interested in coming and helping on this civic project, is welcome.
the 809 area code can be used as a "pay-per-call" number, similar  to 900 numbers in the u.s. since 809 is not in the u.s. it is not covered by  u.s. regulations of 900 numbers, which require that you be notified and warned  of charges and rates involved when you call a "pay-per-call" number.
overall, i'm feeling good about the team.
pneumonia vaccinations pneumonia shots will be administered at the health department offices only.
for some it's pretty scary, because the mountain drops off so sharply on either side.
open the bottle, take a swig.
local chatter genealogy collection at library unsurpassed in four corners by kate terry sun columnist one of the best unknown assets in archuleta county is the exceptional  collection of genealogical books and materials at the sisson library.
"woodworking," 6:30-9:30 p.m. tuesdays and thursdays, oct.  19-dec. 2.
free showings of these movies will take  place at unit b15 of the greenbriar plaza on the back side of the retail  center.
likewise, rain totals the first week of october equalled 2.02 inches, only seventeen-hundredths of an inch shy of the month's average rainfall total of 2.19 inches.
children feel cared about when an adult listens and accepts their feelings regardless of what they say; 3.
baile de otono you are cordially invited to attend the 2004 baile de otono (fall dance) this friday evening, oct. 8, at montezuma's vineyards and restaurant.
pauline and mercy at the community center are looking for organizations and businesses interested in sponsoring a food booth or any of the activities and/or games held that night.
on several occasions over the years other publications were created; none lasted.
class projects  will include still-life work, portrait and/or self-portrait work, landscape  work, exterior/interior work, and copy/inclusion work.
pagosa lakes news beware of the 809 phone scam
call 731-8060 to reserve a spot for only $25.
clearly, you don't have to give the weather a thought to attend the pagosa version because you will be cozy and warm in the community center with plenty of sustenance and indoor plumbing.
the demons managed a miracle point as a free ball dropped at the pirates' feet
according to this article, if you want to prolong your life, you need to  live in sardinia.
one detailed survey reveals that an optimistic attitude has nothing to do with longevity.
of course, he said, later, coming across a slide of a single aspen, framed and centered in the picture, the rules, once you known them are sometimes meant to be broken.
" call tammy searle at 731-3143 or virginia humphreys at 731-2937 for answers  to any questions or for more information.
they provide great insight into a pretty competitive selection process," said rita laitres, a human resources specialist at the dow who also attends the sessions every year.
please plan to join the party and support our spanish fiesta club.
the pirates closed the gap to 10-9 courtesy demon mistakes before jewell, the 6-1 middle hitter, tied the shoot-out with a kill.
it is open to all county citizens and the format encourages them to meet and talk with candidates, and learn their positions, thereby promoting informed decision making in the voting booth.
peshtigo, wi 54157 no testosterone dear editor: does anyone honestly have to guess at what would happen should a liberal democrat win the white house?
the milk, butter and cream from faye's cows helped to raise half the population of pagosa springs.
we do our best to be fair.
william r. gray was a writer, editor,  photographer, and publisher for more than thirty years with the national  geographic society.
it focuses on the electoral process, is written by teachers for teachers, easily integrated into civics standards as well as other disciplines, and taught by the regular classroom teachers.
unfavorable publicity about the project can halt progress before you even get started.
it was created as a way to improve the understanding that our youth have about the importance of civic life, and to involve adults, businesses and the entire community in that process.
the win boosted the pirate record to 8-2 (4-0 in league play).
the books have been donated to the library by members of the archuleta  county genealogical society and the society itself.
because of the increased risk for flu-related complications, acip recommends that women who will be pregnant during the flu get vaccinated.
faye started a grassroots effort to establish a ward in pagosa springs, which had previously been only a branch of the mormon church.
forrest had to leave the game until the ball changed possession again and guttierez replaced him, making a save of his own in the interim before going back out.
they had parked on the  road near our vehicles and climbed the peak from a different route,  bushwhacking all the way.
he has published fiction, poetry, and nonfiction articles in national  magazines.
i am promised "new longevity secrets to keep you young and  healthy." as i've noted, the fact i am on a stationary bike that provides me with  platonic mileage and speed readouts indicates i am capable of profound  delusion.
provides a safe place for a child one afternoon a week; 2.
or, if you don't want to worry about traffic, utilize the fine trail system right downtown on reservoir hill.
registration will begin monday, oct. 11, and will continue through friday, oct. 22.
the archuleta county education center is offering a selection of evening  computer classes for you.
high school students may apply.
pagosa springs was introduced as colorado's newest chapter in the society at the meeting.
the way they said it, i know they assumed the answer was yes.
oklahoma and, here's a surprise, missouri were the only other two states that requested over 100.
definitions and abbreviations.
we have received 1,907 e-mail requests, 1,094  phone, friend or in-person requests and around 150 through woodall's and aaa  ads and referrals.
subjects include linguistic affiliation, social organization, history,  world view, material culture and ceremonial institutions.
the goodies produced by the roasting process are scraped  up into the liquid and the amalgam is reduced to a near syrupy consistency.
thank you, loyal members, for your new and  continued membership.
for some it's  pretty scary, because the mountain drops off so sharply on either side.
in addition these retail stores sponsor a variety of major events on a yearly ranging from teen break to our youth fishing derby.
our associate membership renewals this week are valued chamber diplomat barbara mason and john j. taylor.
pagosa's play disintegrated in all phases and a spate of mistakes turned over points to the demons.
for more information contact loujean at 731-7171 or visit her at 301 n.  pagosa blvd. b-14 in the greenbriar plaza.
t35n, r2w, sections 12 and 26.
the event theme is "housing" and there will be fun family activities and games with the action starting at 5:30 p.m.
"i consider myself fortunate to have lived here so long," taylor said.
san juan river flow through town ranged from a low of about 210 cubic feet per second to a high of approximately 430 cubic feet per second last week.
versace is an award-winning 13-year veteran of the santa fe freelance writing community and current editor of southwest book views, a literary book review magazine.
election of officers and establishment of committees will follow.
can all these organizations unite to build a cultural center?
just this friday some signs we had in our yard were stolen and later found torn up in the road.
and, too, there is something about holding a book in your hands.
youth basketball youth basketball for 7- and 8-year-olds only, is right around the corner.
we know what the clinton administration did regarding  terrorism:
shon followed and took a drop from moe to the middle, crossing back to his older brother.
local game wardens say that game is fairly plentiful, especially elk, but that hunters will have a difficult time finding them because of dry conditions.
the ordinance establishing the creation of the district will become official upon completion of a second reading, which is scheduled to take place during the council's next meeting.
unm  press has just published her second novel, "coyote morning."
halloween party it will be here before you know it, so do plan to join the big halloween  party at the community center 5-7 p.m. friday, oct. 29.
with work, conscience and luck, the institution will survive for another 95 years.
friday the senior board will conduct its annual meeting at 12:45 p.m. with  elections from 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
" what are your job responsibilities?
a minute and five seconds later, baum hit his first goal of the season and gave pagosa a lead it would not relinquish.
- "skins," nov. 4, 5, 6, 11, 13 at 7:30 p.m. and nov. 14 at 2:30  p.m.
once a perpetrator has an account number they can empty a bank account with  one withdrawal.
further information
then began a 23-minute pagosa run without scoring, one in which both teams played excellent defense, but offensive breakaways were hard to come by.
cutting off a demon drive 40 yards out, he chipped a lead pass over the last defender to moe webb.
of course, many people show up to learn the "chicken dance," and if you don't know how to do it here's your opportunity.
the band begins playing at 8 p.m. cost is $10  per person.
the final demon attacker went up to attack in the face of that ferocious block and hit ball out to give the pirates the victory.
in short i would just like to say to whomever it was that felt compelled to do this, if you don't like someone's opinion, fine, talk to people or write to them about it.
provide direction and clarification of values for the child; 11.
sincerely anna hershey postcard project dear editor: would you please publish this letter in your newspaper to help us with our social studies project to learn about the united states?
there are also one-day  classes offered on selected applications such as "get to know your  computer" taught by cynde jackson.
come join this fun class being taught by cynde jackson nov. 9 and 10.
it's like visiting with a friend.
and for those who  just want the opportunity to dress in costume, remember the contest categories  are most elaborate, most gruesome and most original.
the question is "do you want pagosa springs to dramatically change its current environment?" wal-mart will bring low prices.
- they are identified with a person or persons who significantly contributed to the culture and development of the town.
guess it's time to resume pumping more holes into kerry's "swiftboat" of false colors.
durango turned over three of the points with errors, steen scored the fifth point with a kill through the durango block.
on a different subject, the first meeting of the friends of the community  center will be held at noon wednesday, oct. 13, in the center.
hot springs boulevard
some other tips: marry well (a bad marriage can kill you and/or your spouse); be conscientious and dependable (memorize and repeat the boy scout oath); drink coffee; get rich (how a shepherd manages this is beyond me); be religious (see above, re. scripture); make friends (with friends like mine, i have questions about this); take some aspirin; enjoy frequent sexual relations (the author is unclear as to whether or not this requires another person).
they then come back home to face ridgway in golden peaks at 1 p.m. saturday.
in related business, starks reported no violations concerning the operation of district lagoons for the month of september.
for a little privacy and sense of adventure, and of course, an increased likelihood of overhearing the raucous behavior of propagating elk, we chose to set the tent a couple of hundred yards northwest of the cabin.
this year, the colorado arts consortium honored doris green, president of  pagosa springs arts council with "the arts are the heart" award.
he also suggests bracketing the exposures, using different aperture openings and shutter speeds to ensure the best results.
this year's theme is "the nutcracker," featuring music provided  by john graves with dancing honors performed by local ballerinas.
therefore, the value of the books and materials found in libraries  is vital.
before entering the seminary, father alvarez graduated from the university of notre dame in south bend, ind.
for example, u.s. 160 to u.s. 84 and then toward chama until you reach county 119 (light plant road).
but i'll put 5 percent of each paycheck into a special account and, when there is enough cash accrued to book passage, i'll call a travel agent.
the reason you've been asked to call varies.
this juried sale will feature fine crafts and arts in the barbara conrad  gallery.
she is the first to role her sleeves up and dive into a  project and the last to leave.
then bayfield's thomaz rocha missed a header right in front of the net.
forrest stopped an erik ludwig effort off a corner kick on the next bayfield possession before chris nobles executed a perfect slide block for another pagosa possession.
the point is, they will try to keep you on the phone as long as possible to increase the charges.
bonnie lived her early years in and around pagosa springs, and then moved  to san diego calif., were she graduated from high school.
in truth, my activity is fueled at a deep level by the reality of age and  is part of a poignant, losing battle to forestall the inevitable.
you can plan on a full evening of entertainment for the whole family, and catch up with those friends you haven't seen throughout the busy summer.
it is said to be the best collection in the four corners.
she did not understand prejudice and had friends of all races, religions and social or economic status.
artist opportunities "spirit in hand" holiday exhibit and sale at the durango arts center, dec. 14-24.
for updated schedule information each week, call the hotline at (719) 850-2553.
what i know for sure is that  dionigi's serves a wide selection of classic italian recipes with a touch of  their louisiana heritage.
the milk,  butter and cream from faye's cows helped to raise half the population of pagosa  springs.
the democratic party today is controlled by a bunch of 1960s anti-war activists.
the popular bier garten (beer garden) will be back this year, and you can  still purchase last year's commemorative beer stein for only $2.50.
if you would like to order a pizza or  have any questions about dionigi's, please call 731-4258.
i need to share what i gleaned from the article with those of you who have moved on to "oh no, this doesn't look good; i better devote more time to scripture."
depart denver saturday, march 19 calendar oct. 5-30 - trio exhibit: joycelyn audette, katherine barr and lisa pedolsky at durango arts center oct. 9 - inkslingers writing conference, durango art center oct. 22-24 - durango arts and crafts conference at the strater hotel oct. 23 - writer's group meets noon-5 p.m. at jerry hannah's oct. 24 - salon at jerry hannah's with local writers, artists, musicians begins at 1 p.m. nov. 3-5 - watercolor basics ii, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m., community center nov. 5 - outsider art: visions from the edge, reception with the artists, durango arts center 5-7 p.m. nov. 11-12 - perspective workshop, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m., community center nov. 5-dec. 10 - outsider art: visions from the edge at durango arts center.
we need a common sense approach to domestic issues as well.
one thing they, football and volleyball fans won't have to worry about is the overnight closings of wolf creek - they are in effect 10 p.m.-5 a.m. monday through thursday in conjunction with the lonesome dove to windy point project at the east base of the pass.
forrest complained to officials about there being no call.
- the success of a capital campaign is dependent upon strong organizational  leadership and the commitment of the board of directors.
early in the fall, students register to vote in their classes and encourage their parents to register as well.
i am reading a begrimed copy of one of those snappy guys-only publications, learning new things about what it is to be a man.
" if harman park opts to continue development of a pressurized system, the subdivision will be required to follow colorado department of public health and environment regulations regarding operations of a "satellite system."
jewell killed off the block and scored with a solo block but a durango kill gave the game to the home team.
i knew within minutes, the first light of day would flood into the clearing, sending any elk out there quickly retreating to the relative safety of the surrounding forest.
while at notre dame, he studied abroad at the  university of mexico in mexico city, the american university in cairo, egypt,  and in jerusalem.
computer classes we have a number of upcoming computer classes being offered during october  and november.
tickets can either be mailed or available at will call allowing patrons to  arrive for the show as they wish, and not as a group.
karl isberg pacing pagosapacing pagosa walk facing traffic; it's the law
tdr programs vary around the country, but the planning department would like to create a system that works well for the citizens of archuleta county.
please pass  along to any friends or family who might want to come to pagosa for this event  that the spa at pagosa springs is offering a 10-percent discount to oktoberfest  attendees who would like to stay close to the event.
by tom carosello staff writer the board of directors of the pagosa springs sanitation general improvement district rejected a sewer maintenance proposal tuesday from harman park subdivision.
the theory is that if you are facing traffic, drivers will be more likely to see you.
cost is $130 or $123.50 for psac  members.
it would not happen.
the enrichment of community was neal's main concern; she received the  first "arts are the heart" award in 1994.
a statewide meeting was held in buena vista last weekend for all colorado audubon chapters.
but it is mayberry to those of us who have had the luck to visit.
besides, i've gotten higher than pagosa peak (elevation 12,600) just by hiking the continental divide trail from wolf creek to silverton.
he also believes in keeping some of his favorite spots a secret.
thirteen ladies turned out on a very cold, windy and rainy day to match their golf skills with pagosa golf club pro alan schutz.
the business community values and uses advertising to reach the consumer.
remember, an organization will get most of its money from a cluster of top donors.
that was the end of pirate offensive action for some time to come, and it seemed to steam up the homestanding wolverines.
you can give sue a call at 264-0244 to learn more about baskets & more!
we learned our lesson with tabor.
based on the number and history of concerns with the county's current outdoor lighting code expressed by business owners and private citizens, said rodriguez, it is necessary "to take another look" at the regulations.
in the tropics, the flu can occur at any time of year.
saul furnishings offers a wide range of services and products including interior design, decorating, furniture, flooring, window coverings, tile and accessories.
i don't know why that is." after a good area is located, he suggests "working" it fairly hard and using lots of film.
i like sue's response to "recruited  by" on her membership form which was "me, myself and i."
the author presents the great cultural vitality and living dynamic nature of  these groups including their contemporary situations.
forrest put a ball down inside the moose block, walkup killed.
but also load up on fresh vegetables.
i consider this such a great alternative for families who are faced with taking their children door to door in sometimes cold, inclement weather to do the "trick or treat" thing.
faye lived through tremendous hardships and poverty and did whatever had to  be done to make ends meet.
students who live in dormitories or anyone who lives in an institutional setting should be encouraged to get vaccinated because crowded living conditions may mean that the flu can spread more easily.
back in goes the chicken and - instead of butter - more of the extra virgin  olive oil is added and it emulsifies over heat as the seasonings are adjusted.
the window remains open and the collaboration between the publication and its readers continues.
at that instant i pronounced a sharp "hiss," to which the lead cow immediately froze, contemplated for a moment, then abruptly turned and trotted off.
for information on these and other veterans' benefits please call or stop by the archuleta county veteran's service office on the lower floor of the county courthouse.
thanks for materials from carole and bob howard and sandy kobrock.
however, do not think you can decipher a way for your current businesses to coexist with a wal-mart or any other large box store.
beaver railroad - aerial ignition of area about six miles north of dolores and west of the dolores-norwood road between 529 and house creek roads.
he was also an avid  reader.
united way is focused on organizing the ability of people to care for one  another.
'the animal' chews up demon attack in 4-1 pagosa soccer victory by richard walter staff writer his teammates are calling him "the animal" this week.
stay on the sidewalks or designated trails as much as possible.
by andy fautheree sun columnist military records are an essential part of applying for and obtaining va benefits and claims.
t36n, r 1w, section 21.
at first i decided not to get all riled up about this until it was brought to my attention that some friends of ours had the same thing happen only to a larger extent.
i had thought everyone, no matter their station, was entitled to having their opinions and to share them.
a person can retain a reserve obligation for several years, even  without attending meetings or receiving annual training.
bayfield's richard stange, a senior who missed the first game, was thwarted three times on the same play at the 55-minute mark, forrest making two stops and morris coming to his aid for the third.
the better oil is labeled "extra-virgin," comes from a first, cold pressing and contains less acid than the lesser product.
activities in joe stephenson park will include live music, arts and crafts,  vendors and demonstrators featuring four corners area artisans, an old-time  sheep camp, sheep shearing and sheep dog herding demonstrations, wagon rides,  and lots of good food.
he has published fiction, poetry, and nonfiction articles in national magazines.
who else is raising money?
later she went to work for consolidated aircraft industries to help with the war effort.
the series continues thursday, oct. 21 with academy award-winner michael  moore's "fahrenheit 9/11," a searing examination of the role played  by greed and oil in the wake of the tragic events of 9/11.
microsoft applications like word and  excel are taught by dick babillis.
turkey springs (fs) - 12 miles northwest of ps.
the audience couldn't have been more pleased and appreciative of the talented performances they witnessed on the stage that night.
these lvw pamphlets really help clarify what will happen if the amendments pass.
nomadic indians were identified as gentiles.
just then, another great bull, with only a few cows and calves in tow, emerged from a low-lying depression further out in the meadow.
we all signed the register.
republicans have worked very hard making bush look like gary cooper in "high noon."
we just added microsoft publisher to our october offerings and it will be  taught 6-8 p.m. mondays and wednesdays oct. 25 through nov. 3.
we appreciate your help.
sanitation district rejects harman park sewer proposal
la junta is the fourth team at the tourney.
durango area east vallecito: mechanical thinning and mowing along the east side of vallecito reservoir.
come join this fun class  being taught by cynde jackson nov. 9 and 10.
a maximum of four slides or photographs must be submitted for the selection process.
entry fee is $15 for dac  members and $30 for nonmembers.
a written document that makes a compelling case for supporting the  campaign.
florida (blm) - hand thinning.
she has  given a number of presentations here and is always well attended.
united way opens annual drive with $62,000 goal
dick noted, after listening to presentations where each of the agencies described the programs for which they are requesting funding, "it's truly heartwarming to learn about so many people and agencies in the area who are quietly working in the background to make this a better place to live.
(if given aspirin while they have the flu, they are at risk of a severe illness called reye syndrome); - women who will be pregnant during the influenza season; and - all children 6 to 23 months of age.
tickets can either be mailed or available at will call allowing patrons to arrive for the show as they wish, and not as a group.
i promise you this event will sell out very quickly as it has done every year, and you will be exceedingly sad to miss such a lovely affair.
"scottsdale, arizona.
double shot latte, one knee on wheel, cradling cell  phone, foot on brake, mind on radio game, banging head on steering wheel; while  stuck in traffic: seattle.
on election day, students go to their neighborhood polling places with their parents (they do not go as a class) and cast their own, special, locally developed ballots at their own polling booths assisted by kids voting volunteers.
el viaje tropical tour to costa rica - butterflies to bromeliads ii, march 19-26, 2005.
our government must honor its commitments, hold itself accountable for its actions and recognize and honorably fulfill its role in the global community.
we are going to durango oct. 14 to shop till we drop!
donations we thank cynthia sharp and ralph and sam goulds for donations to the building fund; albert and lis schnell in memory of joan young.
in effect, transferring development rights reduces urban sprawl; preserves ranchlands, wildlife habitat and open space areas; and compensates land owners for conserving portions of their land.
while i do not live in your great town, i felt compelled to write.
made his own case so he could carry it around and then glued a yellow filter on the front to improve the look of black and white.
she is an adjunct professor in the art department at  fort lewis college.
pagosa went to game point with a serve error but an alamosa kill went out off the pirate block.
she was a descendent of some of the earliest pioneer families in archuleta county.
nail care by dru, 11 a.m.; blood  pressure check, 11 a.m.-2 p.m.; annual elections, 11 a.m.-2 p.m.; annual  meeting, 12:45 p.m.; senior board meeting, 1 p.m.; pinochle, 1 p.m. mon.
a lot of people have been calling about flu shots and we will have san juan basin health personnel here 11a.m.-12:30 p.m. oct. 13 to administer them.
however, for me to remain silent at such a crucial time in our country's history would amount to cowardice.
one was stopped by the demon keeper and the other clanked off the post. forrest and derek monks combined for a brilliant double stop on the best demon attack of the day at 72:40.
if the participant answers "no" and circles "5," for example, he or she is stating that the standard listed should be designated a relative standard that is highly encouraged by the county, but not required.
eventually they moved to arizona where she retired from the oracle, ariz., schools and had managed the cafeteria.
- call or write candidates, party leaders and the news media.
if you are interested in providing life-saving skills to people in your community, then call the southwest colorado chapter of the red cross to sign up for the fundamentals of instructor training course.
it's the wine of oils.
the muníz brothers may have been ute captives before coming to ojo caliente.
provocative indie films coming here archuleta inquiring minds (aim), a group of local citizens, is bringing a  collection of films to pagosa this month, via dvd format.
this year's theme is "make your caring count," and the campaign  goal for archuleta county is $62,000.
don't exercise too much, says the author.
our renewals this week include gerlinde ehni, d.d.s., p.c., and the pagosa springs family medicine center.
guess it's time to resume pumping  more holes into kerry's "swiftboat" of false colors.
and then it  gets steep.
a movement caught our eye, and we turned to see  three people hiking up the northwest side of the peak.
cruising with cruse climbing pagosa peak is dreadful — but doable by katherine cruse sun columnist
bonnie had been in ill health the last few years and resided in the desert  treasure residence.
this is  the stark difference between bush and kerry, between the republican party and  the democratic party today, and it's why it is inarguable that george bush will  keep this country safer than would john kerry.
thank you, loyal members, for your new and continued membership.
memorial donations can be made to the san juan historical society museum,  p.o. box 1711, pagosa springs, co 81147.
the following day shots will be available at the senior center in the community center building 11 a.m.-2 p.m.
are we spinning off dozens of arts organizations into their own 501(c) 3 organizations and are we all competing for the same dollars?
provides an opportunity for forgiveness which is a difficult concept for children; 9.
you can plan on a full evening of entertainment  for the whole family, and catch up with those friends you haven't seen  throughout the busy summer.
for the edification of those who love the numbers game, north dakota enjoys the dubious distinction of the lowest number to date, 11.
in working to maintain this tradition, the hiring process for this entry-level position is very competitive.
the sun is a enduring institution, serving an energetic community.
onion, garlic, celery,  tomato?).
"i'm not a technical photographer," he said.
hart booted the extra-point and the pirates led 21-0 with 8:23 remaining.
this is a request for the planning commission to review the sketch plan for the re-plat of pineview drive to vacate approximately 125 feet at the south end of the platted road right-of-way and for the consolidation of lots 45 and 46, incorporating the vacated portion of pineview drive.
andre muníz must have been fluent in ute and familiar with ute geography, because he accompanied the expedition of juan maría de rivera to gunnison in 1765.
she paints in oils, watercolors,  acrylics and pastels.
bring your friends and relatives for this fun-filled evening of family  entertainment, and don't forget the lederhosen.
"i like to read, write, sew and meet new people.
the survey has been available for completion and submittal on the county's web site since last weekend.
if only a short time has passed, please send  the inquiry to the address shown for active or current reserve members.
betty slade will  demonstrate how to paint a signature christmas card and other gifts.
this is corruption in full bloom right on prime time tv and when 95 percent of the muslim world would rather have kerry than bush, this should tell the american people all they need to know.
despite the evidence of virulent global enemies - in russia, spain, indonesia, the middle east and elsewhere, the democrat reaction is to pretend terrorism is not happening.
a $10 donation is  asked of our seniors for transportation.
the new, performance-based code will eventually replace existing regulations and, as survey instructions point out, is intended to be based on two sets of design standards that will factor heavily in the county's review, approval or disapproval of new development initiatives within each planning district.
they believe john kerry's phony  "global test" should come first.
she will show participants how to explore ambivalence about writing, help them identify personal writing saboteurs and to give themselves permission to write.
apparently, you leave the anderson trail and bushwhack to a small saddle on the south side of pagosa peak.
meanwhile, the prominent stars of orion shone brightly overhead, and, as they had all night long, bull elk in the surrounding forest continued their incessant bugling.
visitor center stats july was clearly the banner month so far this year at the chamber with over 9,000 visitors coming through our doors, and august wasn't so shabby with almost 7,000.
i'll hook up with a sardinian real estate broker via the web and start looking for some land, preferably with verdant rolling hills.
visitor center stats july was clearly the banner month so far this year at the chamber with over  9,000 visitors coming through our doors, and august wasn't so shabby with  almost 7,000.
t35n, r3w, section 11.
for those people who like to be truly organized for the holidays, we are once again offering the class fun holiday ideas that will enhance your skills for developing newsletters, cards, and invitations.
if we do our work well, others will someday take our places, maintain the institution, perpetuate the tradition.
after all, the blunt idiocy of the activity is unavoidable if you flail  away on one of these machines with no significant outside input - something to  read, a television to watch.
- the size and geographical distribution of your constituency.
if only a short time has passed, please send the inquiry to the address shown for active or current reserve members.
the world situation is not a movie and president bush is not john wayne.
the meeting this month, oct. 10, will be held at 1 p.m., a change of time from the regular 2:30.
faber hit an ace and the pirates led 17-10.
meanwhile, to the north, east, and west, a thick forest of aspen and ponderosa pine covers much of the countryside, and upon our arrival, splendid shades of green, yellow, and orange were in full glory.
the main event starts next at the community center - music, food, dancing, camaraderie and a full evening of fun for the whole family.
the oil provides a strong foundation for dishes, a depth that lighter, ordinary cooking oils cannot give you.
this is more challenging in a rural area.
mighty wapiti raise a racket near camp
but, officials say, there is a growing problem in the area with people walking the wrong side of the street or - in fact - out in the roadway in areas where there are no sidewalks.
the audience couldn't have been more pleased and  appreciative of the talented performances they witnessed on the stage that  night.
his talk, "putting the writer in the writing," will help writers cross over from the clinical approach to writing, to integrating the writer's voice into the story, elevating the quality of the work.
alamosa's attack succeeded whenever the pirates' main defensive weaknesses - poorly set blocks and sluggish back-row play - continued to hamper the team's performance.
joe  brown of bayfield; her grandchildren, twila faye brown and brad brown of pagosa  springs, dan brown of allison, cindy highland and christy duran of bayfield,  connie white and lynn hood of cortez, lance brown and carol fowler of sandy,  utah, bruce brown of dayton, ohio, gary brown of hemet, california, and claudia  carter of seattle, washington; nieces tinnie lattin and ione patterson of  pagosa springs; and 26 great-grandchildren and 13 great-great-grandchildren.
he's not qualified for the job since being president requires somebody who can consider more than one thing at a time.
this is a very important issue of scam busters because it alerts you to a scam that is spreading quickly, can easily cost you $2,400 or more, and is difficult to avoid unless you are aware of it.
they  would much rather change the subject to health care, the economy, social  security - anything but the war on terror.
he moved up to a kodak 35 with a range finder.
my dear friend flash, who's been there a couple of times, agreed to take me  and our friend doc, another slow hiker, and a couple of other noncompetitive  hikers up, all of us for the first time.
besides, you can't be the last person when new people are arriving every day.
consequently, both species seem larger and more numerous with every passing season.
fsr 631 - fsr 631 and fsr 923.
debris generated by the hydromowers may travel up to 300 feet.
it is exceedingly difficult to change or undo  constitutional amendments.
there will be many festivities including a costume contest as well as the food, games and activities with prizes galore.
a false start and sack temporarily pushed pagosa back to the 25, but o'donnell's middle screen call on third and long seemed to surprise bayfield, and hoffman was escorted to the end zone by a herd of pirate blockers.
a kill and two aces by steen put pagosa ahead 10-5.
- the success of a capital campaign is dependent upon strong organizational leadership and the commitment of the board of directors.
the door prizes donated by our local merchants at this luncheon are always outstanding and feel free to call yvonne ralston at 731-9324 or june geisen at 731-5429 if you would like to donate an item or two.
business news park place barber and salon loujean espinosa has been a nail technician for nine years and purchased park place barber and salon in the greenbriar plaza.
several other genízaros of the same surname, including guadalupe mestas married to "josé el apache," were also listed.
a friend of mine climbed the peak one summer right after she had walked in  the 60-mile susan komen foundation march to raise money for breast cancer  research.
on a different subject, the first meeting of the friends of the community center will be held at noon wednesday, oct. 13, in the center.
wildlife officials say there is a somewhat larger than average deer and elk supply in the regional hunting units and most expect an excellent culling if the weather holds.
people  have to believe in what you are doing and feel that it somehow benefits them.
one of the worst is piedra road where there are relatively small shoulders, heavy traffic, and little room to escape if you see you're about to be hit.
when you must walk in a roadway because there are no sidewalks available, the law says pedestrian traffic must walk toward the oncoming vehicular traffic.
this is an outrageous thing for someone to do.
and after a two-day hiatus today and friday, additional moisture is expected in the coming week.
space is limited and advance reservations are suggested.
these kids have daily to-do lists.
rochford helped  raise the money to build the community concert hall at fort lewis college, the  new art building, and the center for southwest studies, when consultants told  the college it couldn't be done.
for proof, just look at the place names.
we have sent a total of 1,991 summer packets, 636 winter packets and 510 relocation packets to date.
i ended up with sore muscles and aching knees.
coordinators say time is well spent in music and games with the goal being in teaching lessons of lasting value and encouraging children to just "be who they are.
the office is open from 8 a.m.-4 p.m. monday  through thursday, friday by appointment.
i dive into the article and i want to share some things with those of you  who have passed both the "i'm bulletproof and immortal" stage of  adolescence and early adulthood, and the "i don't need to worry about it  yet" phase of early middle age.
veteran's cornerveteran's corner military records essential for va claims and benefits
- their structures are a significant component of a historically significant neighborhood and the preservation of the structure is important for the maintenance of that neighborhood character.
'tdr' volunteers sought in related business, the board approved the pursuit of a committee to spearhead the creation of a transfer of development rights program to coincide with ongoing efforts to establish new county land-use regulations.
a demon serve error surrendered a point before a three point run gave the home team the game and a chance to end the evening with one more win.
this group supports  people with vision challenges, so come in for information and help if you or  someone you know has vision problems.
play will begin in early november.
the trucks will need to use the whole road on switchbacks and in narrow spots so road users are asked to give the trucks the right of way.
sen. unwilted botox said he couldn't handle two battles at once.
he was beaten to possession by an attacker who reversed the ball inside where freshman striker grant hunstiger was all alone to cut the score to 2-1 in favor of pagosa.
faye put the  needs and concerns of others before her own; she had a way of making each  person feel like the most important person in the world.
- "skins," nov. 4, 5, 6, 11, 13 at 7:30 p.m. and nov. 14 at 2:30 p.m.
for a complete listing of all of our program offerings, please stop by the  archuleta county education center located at 4th and lewis streets.
the lone star iconoclast, crawford, texas.
the office number is 264-8375, fax 264-8376, e-mail afautheree@archuletacounty.org.
new mexico hispanics had a number of names denoting ethnicity and the casticismo "caste elitism" common to pre-anglo new mexico society.
i've always  believed an abundance of false joy and a fake smile get you nowhere and act,  instead, as signals of enormous insecurity, it's encouraging to see a blow  struck for low expectations, to know that being pessimistic can prolong your  life.
his is preceded in death by his loving wife, adelita "della"  valdez; his parents, jose and elena valdez; a son, charles valdez; brothers  ruben, joe a. and esperidion valdez; grandchildren bobby john blasingim and  pamela jo bennett and great-grandson preston potts.
our pagosa merchants will supply the very latest fashions, and dahrl henley can always be counted upon to serve only the finest and tastiest food around.
another old friend, sue anderson, joins us this week with her new business,  baskets & more!
no sign up is necessary, just show up with short sleeves  and a smile.
recitation of the rosary was held monday oct. 4 and mass of christian burial tuesday oct. 5 in immaculate heart of mary catholic church with father carlos alvarez officiating.
mechanical mowing and shredding of small-diameter pine trees and understory shrubs.
the 809 area code is located in the british virgin islands (the bahamas).
paul muirhead recovered for pagosa but his drop to shon webb was shanked.
within seconds, the entire group ran south, and eventually veered west into the cover of the forest.
don't forget the date: friday, oct. 29, 5-7 p.m. the senior center has decided what it will do.
pauline and mercy at the community center are looking for organizations and  businesses interested in sponsoring a food booth or any of the activities  and/or games held that night.
hours are 3:10-4:30 p.m. in room 18 at the school.
the property is legally described as section 32, township 35 north, range 1 west, n.m.p.m., archuleta county, colo. - review of the aug. 11 planning commission minutes; - other business that may come before the commission; - adjournment.
aarp elderwatch and the attorney general warn seniors of federal government grant scheme: in the past two weeks, aarp elderwatch has received calls from seniors who have been offered grants through the "federal grant information center."
everyone interested in getting involved in our community is  welcome to attend.
in a moment, with but a small clump of aspens between me and open ground, i glassed them again.
he is survived by his children, della valdez trusdell, helen and paul  bennett, pres valdez, jimmy and kari valdez, harold and judi valdez, michael  and joanna valdez and charlene valdez; his brothers and sisters, mave valdez,  clara martinez, fidelino valdez,and jenny martinez; his brother-in-law, orlando  griego; grandchildren wayne blasingim, jaime dean blasingim, erin prokop  lucero, matthew prokop, edward bennett, orin anderson, rhonda valdez potts,  jesse valdez, chase valdez, michele perez, tanna bristol, phillip valdez, bobby  valdez, mikela valdez, dwayne valdez and shelli irizarry, and kenneth valdez;  great-grandchildren nicholas and nathan blasingim, lindsey, jaime and mckenzie  blasingim, ryan bennett, chantelle valdez latham, tony, jessica and tessa  potts, jeff, steven, curtiss and triver bristol, cody bryant, sofia perez, spur  james valdez, jesse nicole valdez, brittany marie valdez, hayley rose valdez  and sierra rose esquer-irizarry; and one great-great grandchild, bo glasingim.
we did that, finally, in the third game and picked up the pace."
'the nutcracker' remember that saturday, nov. 13, is the annual immaculate heart of mary fashion show and luncheon beginning at noon in the parish hall.
her credits include new mexico magazine, the santa fe new  mexican, art of the west and more.
advantage pirates: 19-9 the home team got into double figures with a three-point run, two points courtesy pagosa, then let a free ball by steen drop for a score.
"i was also pleased to see quite a few dig-set-hits.
speakers will explain minimum qualifications, the testing process, types of tests given, how to prepare for tests, wildlife officer job duties, and what to expect during the first year of training.
sign up at 8 a.m. in joe stephenson park in old downtown bayfield for $15.
he enjoyed flying in airplanes, riding and breaking horses, taxidermy, gardening and lots of hugs.
the day will start with a 5k run at 8:30 a.m., sponsored by pine river  early learning center.
you can  give sue a call at 264-0244 to learn more about baskets & more!
both teams wait for a full roster of healthy athletes, and coach scott anderson believes that time could be at hand soon.
all proceeds will benefit the club's community betterment efforts.
fund-raising objectives based on legitimate institutional plans, goals, budgets, and needs.
"i learned where to find the job announcement on the state web site, the minimum qualifications, and the four-step testing process," he said.
a sign has been erected at the scoreboard with the new name, which seems highly appropriate at this time of the year.
contact dac at 259-2606 or e-mail info@durangoarts.org. "durango arts & crafts conference, oct. 22-24 at the strater hotel.
her grandfather, welch hyler, and great uncle welch nossaman  (brothers-in-law) were two of the earliest anglo settlers and businessmen in  archuleta county and the confars were some of the earliest settlers in the  chromo area.
he enjoyed flying in airplanes, riding and  breaking horses, taxidermy, gardening and lots of hugs.
please consider consigning your original work in our store.
- evaluate political materials and advertising carefully.
protest negative campaigning; praise positive efforts.
"my hat's off to our offensive line; they did a great job against a tough football team and opened things up for us," said the coach.
ability and readiness of major donors to give substantial lead gifts before  any public announcement of campaign.
bonnie lived her early years in and around pagosa springs, and then moved to san diego calif., were she graduated from high school.
sincerely, barbara blackburn opinion changed dear editor: the following "opinion of the publishers" says it clearly: "few americans would have voted for george w. bush four years ago if he had promised that, as president, he would: - empty the social security trust fund by $507 billion to help offset fiscal irresponsibility and at the same time slash social security benefits; - cut medicare by 17 percent and reduce veterans' benefits and military pay; - eliminate overtime pay for millions of americans and raise oil prices by 50 percent; - give tax cuts to business then send jobs overseas, and, in fact, by policy encourage their departure; - give away billions of tax dollars in government contracts without competitive bids; - involve this country in a deadly and highly questionable war; and - take a budget surplus and turn it into the worst deficit in the history of the united states, creating a debt in just four years that will take generations to pay.
the senior center has decided what it will do.
walkup was pounding the ball from the middle and from outside all day long and crushed a cross-court kill to put pagosa in front 13-10.
this is an opportunity for fine craftspeople and local artists to share their inspired and creative work with the community during the holiday season.
through your generous support, pagosa youth aged 10-16 constructively used over 2,500 hours of the summer free time practicing and playing baseball.
for one thing, his research focused on the impact of relatively new technologies, such as the internet and video games.
black and white only.
they're poised to invade the area with, perhaps, two thoughts in mind: meat for the winter table or a trophy rack to hang over the fireplace.
doing our work well in light of the history of the sun is something we take seriously and we are determined to surrender the institution in good condition.
this course, held nov. 13-14, will provide you with the skills necessary to  teach first aid, cpr and much more.
four-wheel drive pickup truck, shotgun mounted in rear window, beer cans on  floor, prairie dog tails attached to antenna: wyoming.
plan to attend this wonderful annual luncheon and bring all your friends.
historically, there is a rather precipitous drop in september, and this year was no exception with a still-decent showing of 4,500.
pag - armijo blocked punt recovery in end zone (hart kick) pag - hoffman 25 pass from armijo (hart kick) third quarter pag - przybylski 70 pass from armijo (hart kick)
" according to lynch, some of the public records that are apparently being denied by the assessor's office could affect the county's ability to comply with accounting and financial reporting requirements stipulated in governmental accounting standards board statement no. 34, commonly referred to as "gasb 34."
over the years, only a few modest cabins (including bob's simple "hunter's" cabin) have been added to the wooded and mostly untamed landscape, and for some time, area deer and elk hunting have been limited to special draw.
if you are a business owner and want to find out how easy and effective a  payroll deduction program is, just call kathi declark - archuleta county  coordinator at (970) 946-2057.
attack that resulted in another dented post by the still scoreless smith.
you  can view betty's art at the center during the month of november by appointment.
again, forrest stopped a ludwig effort before a pirate assault resulted in wirth stopping webb, a block-takeaway by gill, and a kevin blue-to-webb-to keegan smith
faye was born on march 9, 1905 in chromo, colo., and lived most of her life in archuleta county.
lange canyon - prescribed burn in the hd mountains in lange canyon east of yellow jacket pass.
coach lindsey kurt-mason told his squad after the victory he was pleased with the second half comeback, but warned players not to let success influence performance.
with the dedication of durango's new airport to begin tomorrow, planes above pagosa are getting to be a daily occurrence.
this is the first time we've gone five, and our whole goal was improved passing and serving.
bring your friends and relatives for this fun-filled evening of family entertainment, and don't forget the lederhosen.
apparently, you leave the anderson trail  and bushwhack to a small saddle on the south side of pagosa peak.
lenore bright will talk about the new addition and the placing of the collection in it.
fawn gulch - prescribed burn on 691 acres 5 miles northeast of pagosa springs on the east side of highway 160.
pagosa led 23-22 and it was either team's game.
"master class in oil painting," 6:30-8:30 p.m.
the sun remains the voice of pagosa country, a traditional american small-community weekly newspaper striving to tend to the needs of its readership, remaining close to home in its focus.
completed surveys can be submitted at the following locations: county planning office, county clerk's office, arboles store, chimney rock restaurant, chromo mercantile, ruby sisson library and turkey springs trading post.
the  climb to quartz ridge, although strenuous, was a piece of cake in comparison  with the one the day before.
peggy maloney holds m.a. and m.f.a.. degrees from the university of new mexico.
- limited (by draw only) elk season opens saturday, oct. 9, and continues through wednesday, oct. 13.
durango va clinic the durango va outpatient clinic is at 400 s. camino del rio, suite g,  durango, co 81301.
members suggest voters support candidates who display leadership, create confidence in our system of government and inspire us to think - proactive, not reactive.
for the past four years, dow representatives have organized public presentations to discuss the testing and hiring process for entry-level wildlife manager positions.
on the way to game point, at 24-13, steen put a ball out off the block.
the obvious reason for notifying hunters of these project areas is the noise generated by these activities; the second reason is safety.
wednesday, oct. 13 - white cane society, 11 a.m.; flu shots given at center 11 a.m.-12:30 p.m.; canasta, 1 p.m. thursday, oct. 14 - durango trip friday, oct 15 - qi gong, 10 a.m.; nail care by dru, 11 a.m.; pinochle, 1 p.m. saturday, oct. 16 oktoberfest, 4:30-9:30 p.m. at the community center.
faye was the most proud of being a mormon, a religion that she chose at a young age.
however, some health records are available from the department of veterans  affairs (va) records management center (code 11).
students will need to bring their own brushes, acrylic and watercolor paints.
that trip leader said blackhead was harder than pagosa.
for any questions or additional information concerning any of the pagosa springs recreation department adult or youth sports programs, please contact myles gabel, recreation supervisor at 264-4151, ext.
he rejects american superiority.
families will have fun making their tacos together, learning about following directions and adding ingredients.
when the long and exciting battle was over, pagosa left the demon gym a 3-2 winner over their 5a opponent, 25-24, 19-25, 22-25, 25-20, 15-11.
a keegan smith to moe webb attack resulted in another shot wide right and then wirth made his best play of the game on a muirhead-to-webb attack that wirth ripped out of the air for a key save.
plans for the halloween party continue to develop.
apparently, such folks have low cholesterol, thin-walled and supple  arteries, a stunningly low incidence of diabetes, the kidneys of a teenager and  a resting heart rate in the low 60s.
at the end of the day the two top teams from the round robin fight it out for first place; the other two teams play for third place.
there are fires, storms, floods, epidemics, accidents.
once off wolf creek, soccer fans - but not those going to monte vista or fowler - can anticipate more delays on a 10-mile stretch of cochetopa pass' west side (milemarkers 19-29) where resurfacing is underway.
i need to share what i gleaned from the  article with those of you who have moved on to "oh no, this doesn't look  good; i better devote more time to scripture."
"i've worn out the lugs where the neck straps attach to the camera," he said, during a recent public presentation sponsored by the forest service.
i'm sure that i was the slowest one.
a movement caught our eye, and we turned to see three people hiking up the northwest side of the peak.
griffin-pierce teaches anthropology at the university of arizona.
activities in joe stephenson park will include live music, arts and crafts, vendors and demonstrators featuring four corners area artisans, an old-time sheep camp, sheep shearing and sheep dog herding demonstrations, wagon rides, and lots of good food.
veteran's corner for va claims and benefits by andy fautheree sun columnist military records are an essential part of applying for and obtaining va  benefits and claims.
i like sue's response to "recruited by" on her membership form which was "me, myself and i."
we should have word very soon as to when and if we can begin construction.
the top of the mountain that we see from down here is not the top of the mountain.
"i thought our girls made a solid effort," said the coach.
as they will be evident to anyone who, at some time in the future, studies the pages you read today.
many broke loose under the unbearable strain, ultimately tumbling to the forest floor below.
the senior board will then meet at 1 p.m. and our pinochle players meet at 1 as well.
she paints in oils, watercolors, acrylics and pastels.
kerry seemed to have a clear plan for the iraq war, for integrating our allies, for generating a more democratic process there and for bringing our troops back home more safely.
the demons led 8-2 before pagosa made a move, tightening the defense and working the offense more effectively.
you will be provided a sound understanding of materials and techniques in the use of color and design, as well as the varied ways the combination of all of these elements may be used to foster the student's personal visual expressions.
power point xp is being taught 6-8 p.m. monday, oct. 18 and wednesday oct. 20.
he really means the government's economy, not the peoples' economy.
this many folks coming to pagosa springs already this year is yet another  reminder that we have definitely been discovered.
a sampling of interests includes  cards, board games, foreign language conversation, exercise, yoga, meditation,  cooking, etc. bulletin
helps alleviate some of the isolation and loneliness of being home alone after school; 4.
a place a child can discuss feelings, values, philosophy or spiritual values; 5.
just give  a call to mercy or pauline at the community center, 264-4152.
i keep two grades of olive oil handy in the kitchen.
partner with the more established organizations if possible.
submit your workshop ideas, proposals, and recommendations to the  pagosa springs arts council and let's fill out that calendar!
a handkerchief for keeping the lens clean and a small umbrella.
a tripod is also handy.
events friday, oct. 8 - qi gong, 10 a.m.;
the risk of getting the flu during travel depends on the destination and time of travel.
don't degrade yourself by sneaking around in the night and vandalizing their personal property.
tickets are available at the senior center or chamber of commerce.
our associate membership renewals this week are valued chamber diplomat  barbara mason and john j. taylor.
so should the girls." that next meet is tomorrow, oct. 8, at bloomfield n.m.
blessing and prayer followed with father hudson presiding.
and, colorado department of transportation lists another project that could cause delays in the town of almont between gunnison and crested butte.
my dear friend flash, who's been there a couple of times, agreed to take me and our friend doc, another slow hiker, and a couple of other noncompetitive hikers up, all of us for the first time.
but they are out searching for various body parts.
on the first evening linton will explain the elements of a business plan  including what a mission statement is and how to define your business, product  or services.
beginning nov. 1, clinics will be open to the public on a first-come, first-served basis.
as an artist in the fields of drawing, painting, and sculpture, maxon has had many solo as well as group exhibitions in not only galleries but also museums across the country.
ihm parish welcomes new pastor by mary jo revitte special to the sun parishioners at immaculate heart of mary parish and missions this week welcomed the rev. carlos a. alvarez as pastor.
there are lots of different permutations of this scam.
benson creek - prescribed burn on 1,250 acres southeast of pagosa and east of highway 84 between blanco basin and buckles lake road.
we have sent a total of 1,991 summer packets, 636 winter packets and 510  relocation packets to date.
we have heard from heather hunt of the school within a school - some type of game will come out of their plans.
the rights we citizens have given up in the name of homeland security are the very rights the founding fathers deemed most sacred and the very rights for which so many americans have fought and died.
they're different climbs, and each one is difficult,  although in different ways.
if you had an initial pneumonia shot before age 65, one more is recommended by age 70.
i stopped a hundred yards from the clearing, and glassed the area to see if i could locate any game.
the wolverines set out from their own 22 on their next possession, and consecutive penalties soon had bayfield in punt formation near the goal line.
once a perpetrator has an account number they can empty a bank account with one withdrawal.
there will be a 30-minute break at noon.
the grand summits to the south, with their vast, pure white snowfields, stood in sharp contrast to the yet-obscure conifer forests dressing their lower flanks.
but we'd made the date for this hike months before.
a parade will follow at 10 a.m. and be followed itself by the trailing of  2,000 sheep through town on u.s. 160-b and mill street, then south on the buck  highway (county road 521).
for that reason, since 2000, it has been recommended that all people 50 to 64 years of age get vaccinated each year to increase the number of high-risk 50- to 64-year-olds who are protected against the flu.
can you put into writing the features and benefits of supporting the  campaign?
i  would be up for a stroll in amsterdam or paris, but not without frequent stops  for intoxicants.
against durango, the pirates were unaffected by adversity, determined to respond to any situation with strength.
she thought she was in pretty good shape, but she was not prepared  for pagosa.
in most cases involving individuals no  longer on active duty, the personnel record, the health record, or both can be  obtained from the same location, as shown on the chart.
"i look for patterns, colors, mushrooms, plants all kinds of things," he said.
not only are the three projects on wolf creek pass still underway, soccer fans may also encounter additional delays on the west side of cochetopa pass between saguache and gunnison.
contact psac at  264-5020 for more information.
for further information call, 259-6145 or 259-5883.
in doing so, she utilized information she borrowed from a book by kent e. dove, "conducting a successful capital campaign." commitment of time and support from key participants.
fine craft items are  the focus of the sale.
faye had many  faithful dogs over her lifetime but bobbie was her favorite.
known to almost everyone as pres, he was born in chamita, n.m., sept. 2, 1912, to jose clemaco valdez and maria elena sanchez valdez.
it's not recommended for people with vertigo.
the first world  trade center bombing, khobar towers, the uss cole.
believe  it, already.
both groups merged as they entered the aspen thicket, with the first great monarch clearly agitated by the presence of his rival, and the second frenetically challenging the other.
the breakdown of the top five states is as predictable as the sun coming up in the morning with texas at 6,000, colorado with 4,100, new mexico at 2,900 and oklahoma and arizona virtually neck-and-neck at 1,847 and 1,834 respectively.
also, if the person has only been released from active duty but is still in a reserve status, the personnel record will stay at the location specified for reservists.
every time durango mounted an attack, the red-maned animal called gill seemed there to break it up.
turn to a page from 1915, 1945, 1964, 1972, from the '80s or the '90s and you brush against the fabric of community life.
brings a loving, caring, available, never-forsaking adult into the realm of everyday reality; 6.
all witches, potential friends and halloween revelers call mercy or pauline  at 264-4152.
the sudden appearance of other names and their repetition signals the arrival of those who will change the course of the community.
that's because you did, actually, make the call.
though she did not elaborate, with regard to past attempts to obtain public records, said lynch, "in trying to get there, we've had obstacles."
a set went up, the hit was delivered.
the main objective of the survey is to aid the ongoing development of an entirely new county land-use code that began last august.
pagosa keepers caleb forrest and felix guttierez were called on to make only seven saves in the game as time and again gill and his defensive soulmates took the ball away.
when you've whitewashed a team once - even if it was shorthanded - you have a world of confidence when you play that team a second time.
another photographer once told him a good rule of thumb when looking to bring both the foreground and background in focus for something like a large group of leaves is to focus about a third of the way in.
the first dose "primes" the immune system.
i'll help us out right now by saying that global warming, which doesn't even matter, is a marxist device to economically control the masses.
contact dac at 259-2606 or e-mail  info@durangoarts.org. "durango arts & crafts conference, oct. 22-24 at the strater  hotel.
antibody against influenza viruses are passed in breast milk and may offer additional protection against the flu for infants.
other factors to consider: - older organizations tend to be better established than younger ones.
if you haven't been able  to raise significant funds from volunteers and donors, how can you expect to  raise hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars?
boggy draw - prescribed burn on 300-400 acres about 8 miles north of dolores.
business news park place barber and salon loujean espinosa has been a nail technician for nine years and purchased  park place barber and salon in the greenbriar plaza.
for two solitary evenings, with the tent neatly erect, our pads and bags efficiently aligned, and a propane lantern illuminating our path from cabin to tent, we found comfort and security in an otherwise dark and somewhat mystical environment.
microsoft excel is offered 6-8 p.m. mondays and wednesdays oct. 25 through nov. 10.
the man counts - not politics - and john q. vermillion is a bully good fellow even if he is a preacher - and being a democrat redeems all.
there are so many newcomers in our growing community, many of you did not receive a personal letter inviting you to support this year's campaign.
the center is set up for overnight guests, artist and writer workshops and groups who want to pull away and create.
announcements will be made in local media prior to ignition.
we must lead by example, not merely through force.
we need a thoughtful person who can lead the united states and mend fences with our allies so we can have a stable, viable and democratic iraq.
and, 163 canadians traveled quite a way to visit, and the collective german, england and "other" category combined for a respectable total of 765.
the menu includes bratwurst, including  vegetarian brats, german potato salad, and sauerkraut.
the archuleta county education center is offering a selection of evening computer classes for you.
a 10-foot width restriction is in effect.
then you turn right and start up.
here are the upcoming shows: - "the diary of anne frank," oct. 7, 8, 9 at 7:30 p.m. and oct.  10 at 2:30 p.m.
note: children under the age of 9 receiving the vaccine for the first time will require two doses.
iraq is headed in the direction of vietnam with brave men and women sacrificing for an ill-conceived and poorly planned war.
this year, they will be available for questions at a dozen recruiting sessions around the state.
education news family nights resume oct. 14 by livia cloman lynch preview columnist families, come join the fun at the archuleta county education center  thursday, oct. 14, at the second in the series of family nights: parent and  child together events.
what kind of america do i find myself living in?
tickets can be purchased at the senior center or chamber of  commerce.
"what's not to like!
they have a variety of pizza selections on the menu which you can eat right there or place an order to go.
we have been getting ready for an even bigger and better oktoberfest, which starts at 4:30 p.m. saturday, oct. 16.
for more information, please contact fort lewis college extended studies program at 247-7385, or visit them on campus at 450 berndt hall, or e-mail at monson_m@fortlewis.edu or log on to www.fortlewis.edu, click on community & culture then extended studies.
applications must be received by oct. 22.
you may pick up a free copy thanks to the league.
while you're at it, enjoy a hunk of dry sausage.
lynch was 18th in the field with a personal best of 19:11.
the second chapter comes saturday as the pirates wheel to the eastern plains for their annual appearance at the fowler tournament.
"jewelry making," 6-8:30 p.m.
i will tell you that a number of tickets have already been sold for this event, so don't tarry.
participants sought for county land-use survey by tom carosello staff writer be heard.
"something else i would tell anybody taking pictures," he said, considering examples of his own flashing by on the projector, "is you never know what is going to be a favorite picture.
volunteers packed 36 boxes of books to store.
mr. lynn said that the transaction called for the sale of the hot spring and twenty acres surrounding it.
access: forest service road 037, fsr 738.
men have testosterone.
iced tea and coffee are free, soda pop and bottled water are available for only $1 each.
me, i intend to follow the guidelines in the article as closely as i can.
it lasted at that score for just over three minutes.
the office is open from 8 a.m.-4 p.m. monday through thursday, friday by appointment.
blessing and prayer followed with father  hudson presiding.
he was ordained june 1, 2001.
warzel balances two distinct sides of a working life, writing, and business.
my daughter toren also lives in arizona and she is now attending northern arizona university."
she was a descendent of some of the earliest pioneer families in archuleta  county.
free showings of these movies will take place at unit b15 of the greenbriar plaza on the back side of the retail center.
personalize your gifts and  packages this year with watercolor and acrylic images.
ladies wrap up golf season with two league days, awards ceremony by lynne allison special to the sun a "beat the pro" format was featured by pagosa women's golf association for league day sept. 21.
if you should happen to meet seven wandering "kids," telephone geo.
we will try it one more month, so please jot down the next dance club date, nov. 30 at 3 p.m. and show up with your dancing shoes and byom (bring your own music).
he started with a box camera when he was young.
if you would like to enter the parade, call bayfield recreation department at (970) 884-9034.
perspective, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m. nov. 10, 11, 12, at the community center with  denny rose and virginia bartlett.
artists or patrons interested in promoting the visibility and understanding  of contemporary art through exhibitions, performances, happenings and  educational events can call jules masterjohn at 382-0756 for more information.
if we can't do those two things well, we can't beat the good teams.
find out what your dreams are telling you.
regarding their participation, they remarked, "we are honored to represent this united way campaign and look forward to working with the community to meet this year's goal.
for years he served the abiquiu settlers as interpreter in their parleys with the utes.
"george w. bush: faith in the white house," is an examination of the president's personal practice of christianity.
in addition to the workshop sessions, participants will have an opportunity  to network with the speakers during the included catered private luncheon.
the main event starts next at the community center - music, food, dancing,  camaraderie and a full evening of fun for the whole family.
the papers reveal the character of the community clearly.
those interested in applying for a wildlife manager position are strongly encouraged to attend a presentation to hear from the experts, including veteran wildlife managers.
people 50 to 64 nearly one-third of people 50 to 64 years of age in the united states have one or more medical condition that place them at increased risk for serious complications from the flu.
adult tickets are $13 in advance or $15 at the door; senior tickets are $10, and tickets for children aged 5-12 are $8.
another fine route and one a little more taxing is up put hill to pizza hut, north a block and then loop back through pagosa hills eventually coming out on cemetery road north of the cemetery itself.
but a strong america benefits the whole world.
and then the webb boys dismantled the middle of the wolverine defense with a shon to moe to shon give and go that had wirth baffled and the lead grew to 3-1 pagosa.
on thursday, oct. 28, the series will conclude with a film specifically  prepared for the private viewing of major donors at the august republican  national convention.
while at notre dame, he studied abroad at the university of mexico in mexico city, the american university in cairo, egypt, and in jerusalem.
but, i remind myself, stripped of motivational illusions the activity has a  purpose: better health.
my idea of a sporting vacation involves a  short walk between blackjack tables at a vegas casino or a brief hike to a  favorite restaurant - preferably one in the same hotel where i am staying.
these are just some of the books to show the wide variety in the collection.
organizations tend  to do better raising money when their constituencies are older, wealthier,  better educated and more skilled.
i  might even say, 'the last time i climbed pagosa peak.'"
doc stood on top of the cairn and danced.
i would be up for a stroll in amsterdam or paris, but not without frequent stops for intoxicants.
early on, however, bayfield appeared ready to draw first blood as senior quarterback cody moore led the wolverines on a methodical march into the pirate red zone on the game's opening possession.
there should have been a second moderator to ask questions that would make kerry squirm instead of smile.
what are we looking for as the annual confrontation begins?
the various categories of military service records are described in the  chart below.
not surprising, though.
forrest managed to put a roll shot down to tie the score 24-24, but the demons responded with a kill through the block.
contemporary chance decaf (durango exhibitions and contemporary arts forum) a contemporary art advocacy group, provides artists an opportunity to engage in contemporary art issues, and practices including installation and performance works.
no sign up is necessary, just show up with short sleeves and a smile.
only he hardly ever uses the automatic features, preferring manual settings instead.
per bonnie's request there will be no  services.
i am reading a begrimed copy of one of those snappy guys-only publications,  learning new things about what it is to be a man.
an indio was a person born into a specific tribe or pueblo and the genízaros, regardless of tribal ancestry, were equated with the pueblos.
rochford highlighted the 10 things an organization should analyze when determining if it can have a successful capital campaign.
playtime has morphed into a digital wonderland for kids by myles gabel sun columnist "what's the matter with kids today?
one hand on wheel, one hand on hunting rifle, alternating between both feet  being on the accelerator and both feet on brake, throwing mcdonald's bag out  the window: texas.
during the tourney competition, pagosa will face two top-level teams in perennial 2a power fowler and a very strong 3a lamar.
she thought she was in pretty good shape, but she was not prepared for pagosa.
the series will begin thursday, oct. 14, with "outfoxed: rupert murdock's war on journalism."
provides an opportunity for forgiveness which is a difficult concept for  children; 9.
as a result, the board and administration are in the process of "trying to find out what alternatives are available to us," said lynch.
it basically goes uphill.
the county is encouraging maximum participation in the survey process, and public workshops will be conducted in order to provide additional survey information and address related questions.
please call 259-5383 for information and to register.
the area is extremely dry, fire danger is extreme and officials urge great caution with any kind of fire.
- their structures are critical to the preservation of the character and identity of the local community because of their relationship in terms of size, location and architectural similarity to other structures of historical or architectural significance.
and for those who just want the opportunity to dress in costume, remember the contest categories are most elaborate, most gruesome and most original.
"they get what they request." however, prior indicated there may be some confusion surrounding recent requests from the county global information systems department for maps on file within the assessor's office, requests that apparently carry a price tag.
membership speaking of respectable numbers, we have three new members to introduce to you this week and three renewals.
please consider our country's dilemma when you go to the polls and vote for the new leadership we need.
i've ripped through a couple  articles concerning the "perfect" outdoor vacations, pausing only  long enough on a piece about kayaking in vermont to fortify my resolution to  remain indoors whenever possible.
unless they can blame president bush, they don't want to talk about it.
pregnancy and flu pregnant women are at increased risk for complications from the flu and are more likely to be hospitalized from flu complications than non-pregnant women of the same age.
"we'll have to match their intensity play for play or we'll be in for a long night," o'donnell concluded.
the following is a press release issued by the county planning department which provides further information on the program, as well as details for anyone interested in serving on the committee: the archuleta county planning department is seeking volunteers to participate in a citizens advisory committee for preparing a transfer of development rights (tdr) program for use with the future archuleta county performance development code.
where are all the volleyball players in pagosa springs?
this is the stark difference between bush and kerry, between the republican party and the democratic party today, and it's why it is inarguable that george bush will keep this country safer than would john kerry.
without the distraction, time (oh, that cruel, elastic thing) stretches, the clock on the bike's control panel seems to slow to a crawl, one inevitably begins to wonder if there aren't better things to do.
we descended the peak in just over two hours.
and within 20 miles of pagosa springs in almost any direction, elk seemed to be gathering to lay evasion plans for the hunter invasion.
hunted terrorists are on the run - everywhere.
it's easy to spot  the top-shelf oils at the market: they are often darker, frequently green in  tint, and they cost a lot more than the lower quality oil.
i am helped along this particular day by a magazine article i read as i pedal.
unm press has just published her second novel, "coyote morning."
finally someone realized that a large percentage of tax dollars was being spent out-of-town and out-of-state.
this is part of road, sidewalk and utility upgrades extending from the chamber of commerce visitor center to the community center.
a pirate serve error gave up another point and alamosa closed the gap to 24-23 when another attack was not thwarted at the net.
"absolute" standards are proposed as "concrete rules for new development that must be complied with" - mandatory requirements to be met in all cases except those in which a variance is requested by the developer and granted by the county commissioners.
t36n, r6w, sec. 9, 16, 17, 19, 20.
the fourth team at the event will be la junta.
immediately after the round, the ladies convened at the home of barbara sanborn for their awards luncheon and general meeting.
the caller then insists that the senior provide a bank account and routing  number in order for the grant to be direct deposited.
don't  spend your time on special events unless you have a recognition problem.
i am promised "new longevity secrets to keep you young and healthy." as i've noted, the fact i am on a stationary bike that provides me with platonic mileage and speed readouts indicates i am capable of profound delusion.
in anticipation of frigid nighttime temperatures, we threw in extra blankets and stocking hats, but both nights were unusually mild, and we never needed them.
his drop to moe webb left wirth without defense and pagosa led 4-1 at 67:08.
he takes the camera almost everywhere he goes and also plans trips specifically to take pictures at certain times of the year - including a recent trip to the rio grande.
if you would like to register for classes or need more information, call the center at 264-2835.
more clouds slowly gathered, as the eastern horizon grew steadily brighter.
evening computer classes slated at education center are you looking for something new to learn?
morris missed a penalty kick from 22 yards, but gill was everywhere the ball went, turning in five consecutive solo blocks wrapped around a moe webb drive that sailed wide right.
menu friday, oct. 8 - orange chicken, white rice, broccoli, whole wheat roll and spiced apple sauce and chocolate chip cookie monday, oct.
the first world trade center bombing, khobar towers, the uss cole.
"that's something you can take with you all the time," he said.
the development is largely surrounded by national forest, and roads are primitive, with no winter maintenance.
included are 18 volumes of new england historical and genealogy register; church records, including two volumes of plymouth church records and guide to episcopal records in virginia; 20 volumes of native american records; land records; information about the orphan train; ship lists; south carolina immigrants 1768-1770; winthrop fleet 1630; family genealogies and books on all wars; general information about genealogy; a slew of books on individual states and many books on colorado.
besides, you can't be the last  person when new people are arriving every day.
betty will have many fun ideas to create.
"when we play our game, the game we've practiced all week," he said later, "we're hard to beat." summary scoring: .44, p-m. webb, assist s. webb; 3:33, b-guzman, unassisted; 24:09, p-baum, assist m. webb; 27:31, p-s. webb, assist m. webb; 67:08, p-m. webb, assists muirhead and ormonde; 74:25 p-ormonde, assist blue; 76:37, b-ludwig, unassisted; 78:26, p-s. webb, assist m. webb.
she is an adjunct professor in the art department at fort lewis college.
the program will be by sue schneider of the colorado department of local affairs and administrator of the corsar card.
i survived the blackhead climb, so i figured this was the summer to do pagosa.
the first half ended with blue's penalty kick from the left wing sailing wide left and chi hoon lee's header off a centering pass from caleb ormonde stopped in goal.
the seeds of learning kids will be here to sing oct. 12, after we have our  own amateur half hour.
hand-thinning and mechanical mowing/shredding of small-diameter pine trees and understory shrubs.
it was the first race in which anderson gave the sophomore the green light to run unrestrained.
please pass along to any friends or family who might want to come to pagosa for this event that the spa at pagosa springs is offering a 10-percent discount to oktoberfest attendees who would like to stay close to the event.
with pagosa now up 48-0 and the mercy rule in effect, moore led a nine-play, 78 yard drive ending with a 7-yard plunge by minton that prevented a shutout.
kids voting takes learning outside the classroom and gives students a simulated election experience.
the children of our community have enjoyed everything from bicycle giveaways to candy and prize donations for our yearly fall fun fair.
his talk, "putting the writer in the writing," will  help writers cross over from the clinical approach to writing, to integrating  the writer's voice into the story, elevating the quality of the work.
the 809 area code can be used as a "pay-per-call" number, similar to 900 numbers in the u.s.
they had their own daniel boone equivalents.
their ideology is anti-defense.
archuleta county is named for the hispanic senator by the name of archuleta who pushed the legislation creating the county.
"get equipment as good as you can afford, but don't buy something you're not going to use," he said.
what i then confront is an article purporting to reveal "how to live longer."
this project was part of a colorado department of transportation project headed by davis engineering service inc. basketball sign-ups we will have 7- 8-year-old basketball sign-up sheets at town hall oct. 11-22.
i see no easier way to keep all this good work going than to generously support the united way."
we are indeed lucky to have such a wonderful organization in pagosa springs and are most grateful to each and every member who worked so hard last weekend to make it such a great success.
carrying 45 pounds on my back and spending nights in a  tent, fer gosh sakes.
spectators will be asked to stay on mill street, away from the intersection, so the sheep will make that turn without getting scared and jamming up.
in short, when asked if county employees are being blatantly denied access to public records by the assessor's office and/or keren prior, county assessor - "yes," replied lynch.
enlistment and education of volunteer leaders.
kids voting is a grassroots, non-partisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to increasing civic participation through the education of youth about the importance of voting and to increase adult voter turnout.
other items will be on hand to paint such as checkbook covers, floor coverings, lampshades, and tote bags.
who are you and where  are you going?
for friday, our advice is leave early, pack a lunch, take a radio and a good book - and drive carefully.
her love for her animals was legendary.
the price of admission includes a commemorative glass beer stein and traditional german cuisine including grilled bratwursts, sauerkraut, hot german potato salad and, of course, german beer.
9  a.m.-3:30 p.m. nov. 18 at the community center.
local chatterlocal chatter genealogy collection at library unsurpassed in four corners by kate terry sun columnist one of the best unknown assets in archuleta county is the exceptional collection of genealogical books and materials at the sisson library.
bonnie married frank george teller on feb. 13, 1939, in san diego, calif.
social upgrading took place very quickly during the 18th century.
and then a two-play series resulted in a rare yellow card for forrest in goal.
the shots can be covered under medicaid for children, but not adults.
they remembered making up elaborate stories.
the defenders responded to the challenge, time and again turning away bayfield drives while their own offense appeared to have been blown stagnant by the 40 mile per hour wind whipping into their faces from the north.
turn east on greenbriar drive, past the fire station on north pagosa  boulevard.
further south, just beyond the meadow, the lofty peaks of the san juan and san miguel mountains loom, and just prior to this particular weekend, recent inclement weather had deposited a fresh blanket of snow over their higher reaches.
" where did you go to school?
the bike will even produce the illusion i am traveling at a certain  rate.
finally, fox told the board he is attending a conference this week at denver international airport designed to broaden understanding of environmental issues affecting state airports and how to properly address such concerns.
oh, look, i've biked seven miles and i am whipping along at a brisk 12  miles per hour.
they invite you to call them at 731-1700.
what are your other interests?
a review of the subdivision's proposal in reports issued by briliam engineering echo such sentiments, recommending "a final gravity sewer system design and specifications be developed (by harman park) for final review and approval prior to the construction of the system.
others are better on a cloudy day.
offers american-made baskets, pottery and much more through home shows or by ordering directly from your home consultant, sue anderson.
who are you and where are you going?
microsoft excel is offered 6-8 p.m. mondays and wednesdays oct. 25 through  nov. 10.
earlier this summer i hiked to the top of blackhead peak, the second  highest mountain around here.
i heard over the weekend that attendance at the oktoberfest celebration  held in germany recently was down 40,000 people due to the cold, rainy weather  conditions.
many of the participants have been with the program since its inception.
the objective is to stop the financial exploitation of seniors.
he also likes close-ups of leaves, mushrooms, flowers.
each participant's total scores for the three courses was then tallied at the end of the season.
the pirates came out in the second half with the wind at their backs, the sun breaking through, and an apparent new offensive spirit.
zach holder, a wildlife manager trainee and the son of district wildlife manager bob holder of trinidad, said he practically grew up in the dow and knows all about the position.
for further clarification and more information on the survey or survey instructions, contact the planning department monday-friday between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. pirate sports fans face bevy of road projects getting to games by richard walter staff writer those planning to attend the pagosa pirate's soccer game friday in crested butte - and to a lesser degree those heading to the prep football showdown in monte vista and the fowler volleyball tournament - should be aware of potential delays en route.
the changing demographics and economy, the shifting concerns and fortunes of the residents of pagosa country are evident as the pages turn.
for those people who like to be truly organized for the holidays, we are  once again offering the class fun holiday ideas that will enhance your skills  for developing newsletters, cards, and invitations.
no testosterone dear editor: does anyone honestly have to guess at what would happen should a liberal  democrat win the white house?
citizens approached by these con artists are encouraged to report the incident to aarp elderwatch a program with the colorado attorney general and the aarp foundation.
she will be missed by all who knew her.
jason duetsch, a 2004 colorado state university graduate and a current wildlife manager trainee, said he appreciated spending an evening with knowledgeable people who could answer his questions.
loujean's salon provides a wonderful atmosphere, great services, anÿd  adds retail products daily.
just as our predecessors did.
- speak out at public meetings with candidates.
and then it gets steep.
in each case, you are told to call the 809 number right away.
substantial shoulders exist in loops from town on heavily-used highways 160 and 84 and they provide good areas for both pedestrian and bicycle traffic to stay out of the main traffic lanes.
vigil/abeyta (blm) - southwest of chromo, colo., and in northern new mexico.
i've hiked to the top of pagosa peak.
entry fee is $15 for dac members and $30 for nonmembers.
featuresfeatures life & land in photos of pagosa country john taylor shares his art & his ideas by tess noel baker staff writer john taylor has been taking pictures all his life.
you need a guide, someone who's been there before, just to find the trailhead.
and, it's not only the youth that benefit - these retailers also sponsor events held for our senior population and contribute to citywide organizations that benefit cancer victims, youth at risk, the homeless, the humane society and many more.
naturally i assumed that others would have the respect to listen to my opinions.
my idea of a sporting vacation involves a short walk between blackjack tables at a vegas casino or a brief hike to a favorite restaurant - preferably one in the same hotel where i am staying.
"processing bills for the county.
the children of the community are there; school news is an ever-present element in the papers over the years.
there are key donors in a community and they must be involved from the beginning.
meet in the  computer room of the community center.
it can be to receive information about a family  member who has been ill, to tell you someone has been arrested, died, to let  you know you have won a wonderful prize, etc.
faye never had  to herd her cattle, she just called them and they followed.
the regulations were originally created by a citizens' advisory committee in 2002 through collaboration with former county planning director greg comstock, evaluated and recommended by the upper san juan regional planning commission, then adopted by the board.
after that, staying on the trail is pretty easy, because so many  people are using it.
the hotline is staffed 9 a.m.-4 p.m. monday-friday at 1-800-222-4444; press option 2 for aarp elderwatch.
this is more  challenging in a rural area.
they remembered building forts out of pillows and blankets.
she also owns and oversees the blanco dove artist and writer's retreat center on the lower blanco road.
- competing and conflicting campaigns.
but klauber's questions - and conclusions - go well beyond the standard fare.
since the questions were slanted, the moderation should have been split.
i am convinced john kerry and john edwards will pursue a positive, productive, honest and safe direction for the united states and for all countries embracing freedom.
this year's theme is "the nutcracker," featuring music provided by john graves with dancing honors performed by local ballerinas.
she has southern charm and business savvy and the ability to bring  people together.
tickets are $10 general admission, $8 seniors, $8 faculty and staff, and $5  students.
the specific law can be found in crs-42-4-805, subsection 1.
a sampling of interests includes cards, board games, foreign language conversation, exercise, yoga, meditation, cooking, etc. bulletin
they should work on something positive, such as getting synthetic blood to be more effective.
finally, it was durango that blinked.
come in and learn cool new computer stuff.
in doing so, she  utilized information she borrowed from a book by kent e. dove, "conducting  a successful capital campaign."
therefore, the value of the books and materials found in libraries is vital.
perspective, 9 a.m.-3:30 p.m. nov. 10, 11, 12, at the community center with denny rose and virginia bartlett.
the fowler tournament will give the pirates a chance to face the host grizzlies - one of the best 2a teams in colorado - and 3a power lamar, undefeated so far this season and a regular state tournament team.
pirate runners get healthy as end of regular season nears by karl isberg staff writer with each week, they're a little closer to the goal.
shots on goal, p-21, b-15.
it began with a wipeout block just outside the goal mouth on pirate defender derek monks.
if you complain, both your  local phone company and your long distance carrier will not want to get  involved and will most likely tell you that they are simply providing the  billing for the foreign company.
i just hope the folks who built your town will still be there.
her navajo experience led her to a  career in writing and teaching.
this year's event will be bigger and better than ever, with lower prices and more food than last year.
if you are a business owner and want to find out how easy and effective a payroll deduction program is, just call kathi declark - archuleta county coordinator at (970) 946-2057.
everyone interested in getting involved in our community is welcome to attend.
but a block in the back call pulled bayfield back to the 20, and the wolverines were moved back another 10 yards as hart, armijo and jake cammack collaborated for a second-down sack at the 30.
fiesta club announces baile de otono the pagosa springs spanish fiesta club has announced plans for a baile de  otono (fall dance)
the price of admission includes a commemorative glass beer stein and  traditional german cuisine including grilled bratwursts, sauerkraut, hot german  potato salad and, of course, german beer.
the office number is 264-8375, fax 264-8376, e-mail  afautheree@archuletacounty.org.
as a young anglo girl from a military family living in florida, she had the desire to live among the navajo.
all league members were eligible and began the tournament by posting their scores each league day for the courses they played.
the following businesses have committed to sponsor our children in our youth soccer league: agape gifts, jann pitcher realty, pagosa custom homes, concrete connection, mud shaver car wash, brighton custom homes, co timber ridge ranch, bootjack ranch, edward jones investments, design-a-sign, m&m drop service, a affordable storage, strohecker asphalt and paving and alpine electric.
planning commission the archuleta county planning commission will hold its regular meeting at 7 p.m. wednesday, oct. 12, in the board of county commissioners' meeting room in the county courthouse.
step 1 begins with the question of whether or not the individual filling out the survey believes the performance standard listed should be designated as an absolute standard - a requirement.
by joe lister jr. sun columnist we will host a work day friday at the skate park on south 8th street, with the district supplying materials to resurface the half-pipe and many of the features in the park.
she spent as much  time on horseback as on foot and was an expert horsewoman.
it took us four hours, about twice  as long as some people take.
his kind has taxed, sued, and regulated businesses out of this country and now he's going to fix the damage caused?
we know what the clinton administration did regarding terrorism: diddlysquat.
the obsession among parents with efficiency and productivity has trickled down to even the youngest of kids.
artists creating original, unique gift items in ceramics, jewelry, fiber, metal, glass, wood, paper, calligraphy, photography, sculpture, printmaking, painting and drawing are invited to apply.
seniors should be advised that there is no federal grant information center and that no consumer should ever pay a fee before being awarded a grant or prize.
betty slade has been painting since 1965.
there's nothing wrong with meat.
our renewals this week include gerlinde ehni, d.d.s., p.c., and the pagosa  springs family medicine center.
the results of the students' election are reported through local news media.
the oil provides a strong foundation for dishes, a depth that  lighter, ordinary cooking oils cannot give you.
when i sauté meats and/or vegetables, there are many times i will  ignore expense and use the highest grade olive oil to take advantage of the  greater flavor.
barger eluded two defenders on the right wing and drilled a shot forrest batted out but did not control.
bonnie is survived by her son james dennis (jd) and linda teller of oracle; grandson dennis (jennifer) teller of bisbee, ariz., and great-grandchildren james and rachel, nephew cdr franklin (martie)
however, some health records are available from the department of veterans affairs (va) records management center (code 11).
oct. 11 - medicare and drug card counseling, 11 a.m.-1 p.m.; bridge  for fun, 1 p.m.; making your dreams work for you with barb conkey, 1 p.m. tuesday, oct. 12 - 10:00 yoga in motion, 10 a.m.; basic computer, 10:30  a.m.; seeds of learning kids sing, 11 a.m.; amateur half hour, 11:30 a.m.
for the  edification of those who love the numbers game, north dakota enjoys the dubious  distinction of the lowest number to date, 11.
little bear - mechanical thinning southeast of forest lakes subdivision.
in the 18th century, utes were rarely taken into captivity in the chama valley but did capture children from related bands of great basin indians to trade with the settlers.
the match at alamosa was the first in a series of road games against non-league foes and the coach likes the scenario.
i don't need much of an excuse.
a new row of seats was placed in the second grade room this week.
by ming steen sun columnist we actually received a call last week from an "809" area code.
according to this article, if you want to prolong your life, you need to live in sardinia.
the democratic party today is controlled by a bunch of 1960s anti-war  activists.
children's tickets  include a hot dog, chips and dessert.
indians covered in this book include pueblos, hopi, zuni, pimans, yaqui,  river yumans, the upland yumans, apache, navajo, o'odham and southern paiute.
seniors and their families can call the aarp elderwatch consumer hotline and speak with a counselor to discuss consumer issues and request additional information.
"i made a point to attend one of the presentations," said wildlife manager trainee cory chick, who graduated from adams state college this year.
the latter then made his lone physical error of the game, coming way out of net to his right for a loose ball.
the community center will again be the forum for this year's celebration,  4:30-9:30 p.m.
discharged -the individual has no current military status; health - records of physical examinations, dental treatment, and outpatient medical treatment received while in a duty status (does not include records of treatment while hospitalized); tdrl - temporary disability retired list.