we ate at whispering canyon last year for breakfast, it was nice.
we have a similar restaurant close to us that we all love, so i feel better about trying them out.
while the aquarium is a big draw for kids, it becomes  difficult to contain children sometimes who want to run up to the glass and see  the fish.
i would have to say that this restaurant is really better suited to adults dining without children than those dining with them.
i know this isn't the case for you, but many families will only  go to wdw once in their lifetimes, and i'm sure they want to make sure it's the  best possible experience without any disappointments.
last year i had meals planned every day - including breakfasts and i found that too be too stressful.
while the aquarium is a big draw for kids, it becomes difficult to contain children sometimes who want to run up to the glass and see the fish.
what you found to be "dreary" decor, i found to be typical adult restaurant colors and soothing, dim lighting.
my daughter is 4, and last year we tried le cellier and tony's for the first time, and we've made reservations for both of them this time.
in a way, i wish disney would  categorize their restaurants a bit more to help guide visitors (which  restaurants are appropriate for families with children, and which are best for  groups without children), so it's easier to choose which restaurants will be  best for you.
i think i'll keep the two going for awhile then delete one when i decide i like it better.
ooohhh definitely try cosmic ray's starlight cafe in the magic kingdom - it's quick service.
we are doing breakfast at whispering canyon almost everyday, except for the last at ohana.
i realize it was  supposed to mimic being in the ocean and well, obviously the ocean isn't bright  and colorful...or is it?
not your typical disney themed restaurant with bright colors that would appeal to families with children.
i have a blog on blogger, but i had wanted to try wordpress, but i just don't understand how to work most of it.
but i just want to make sure there is no hidden technicality.
hey jessica, we had the regular dining plan, not the deluxe - the deluxe does come with an appetizer.
why do you think you made a mistake putting your blog on wordpress?
i like all the extras you have on this, and i could barely get the one badge up.
also i tried wordpress because when i asked for advice on my website a lot of people told me to just make a wordpress site, and have my blog and website in one place.
my heart will always be with the polynesian, even though we now own at bay lake tower!
but they cost the same as disneysized portions, so not the best bargain for a family.
in a way, i wish disney would categorize their restaurants a bit more to help guide visitors (which restaurants are appropriate for families with children, and which are best for groups without children), so it's easier to choose which restaurants will be best for you.
i didn't know you had a mommy blog?
form prompted me to whip up this post.
this is where we sat: wasn't a bad seat
i really didn't have anything to share with wyatt so i wound up  having to order something for him and paying out of pocket.
which then bothers people dining next to the glass.
but i know we will not go  back.
we didn't order an appetizer as we  had the dining plan and well, appetizers aren't included in the plan.
from what i saw on the disney website the deluxe plan gives you an appetizer
i will admit, when we got inside i was a bit surprised, it  wasn't the atmosphere i expected.
here is my experience with the dining plan: http://www.familydisneyvacations.com/2009/04/is-disney-dining-plan-worth-it.html thanks, hubby called today to cancel the reservation for the coral reef, we got a different reservation in place of it at teppan edo.
i have to deal with wp blogs for my job
there are so many other restaurants we would love to try and of course,  we have our favorites so the coral reef was a once and done.
and i am so happy to blog on my blogger blogs :)
we had been looking forward to this  meal for so long.
but when you have a child who is under  3 and is not able to be on the meal plan, you are told you can share entrees  with them.
i think we have 2 or three meals that we don't have reservations for.
i would have to say that this  restaurant is really better suited to adults dining without children than those  dining with them.
gray - what a great response!
always having to be somewhere at a certain time.
what you found to be "dreary"  decor, i found to be typical adult restaurant colors and soothing, dim  lighting.
we also have reservations at my favorite place, yak and yeti.
october 6-10, 2012 bay lake tower!
i really enjoyed my experience here, but that's because i'm a solo adult.
the kids were fairly well behaved.
not your typical disney themed restaurant with bright colors that  would appeal to families with children.
and as you say, the portion sizes are what i would call "normal", certainly not the usual disneysized portions, so while perfect for my appetite, i wouldn't have been able to share it with anyone without walking away hungry.
hubby used to stay there all the time growing up, it's his mom's favorite.
i think some of the dinning plan will be a bit much, but overall i think it will eliminate the anxiety we get sometimes about not wanting to try something new or too expensive.
tony's is right in the front of magic kingdom, right by the photo place.
i will say - just the regular dining plan was not worth it for us - maybe we just didn't plan it right?
we've also made reservations for almost every meal for everyday we are down there, i suppose we'll see if it's a bit much :-d
we've never eaten at pecos bill's but we may try it this year!
you really made some excellent points (as always!)
but of course we would have loved to have been closer to the  aquarium.
this ear we only have 1 meal reservation a day (and not every day)
october 10-13, 2012 animal kingdom lodge staying in kidani village!
now, maybe  because i am used to larger portions, what we were given might have been what a  'normal' portion should be?
or you wind up  disappointed because the kids can't see as well as they want because they're  sitting across the room.
there are few other places we were interested in, so i think we'll be checking out our other options.
i don't know what happened on facebook
http://www.familydisneyvacations.com/2009/07/walt-disney-world-vacation-09-day-6_06.html how old are your kids?
what/where is tony's?
i can't believe i didn't know about tony's!
it was dreary inside.
but i can't find you there now>?
there has been some debate on whether or  not eating at the coral reef is not only worth your time but your money as  well.
we're staying at the wilderness lodge resort, and we're going down on may 10th.
you've got a good point here.
the dark  colors coupled with dim lighting made everything seem drab.
whereas i was in the middle of the room, and that was  a fine view for me.
our home resort: current trip photos: past disney trips:
i do have one question though, you said you couldn't get an appetizer on the dinning plan, is that just a certain dinning plan or all of them.
i thought we were friends on facebook
where are you staying?
i'm not too fond of their children's menu options, i have a very picky little girl
the coral reef really isn't exciting and fun for kids - my ids had more fin checking out the aquarium on the other side - it's huge; so by the time we got to diner they weren't interested in seeing fish anymore, :-d
on the  bright side, the food was tasty but for the portions, i think it was  overpriced.
the entrees were disappointing.
right now i know for sure i wouldn't like that, and i'm not sure if i want to start my mommy blog over somewhere else or not.
whereas i was in the middle of the room, and that was a fine view for me.
and as you say, the portion sizes are what i would call  "normal", certainly not the usual disneysized portions, so while  perfect for my appetite, i wouldn't have been able to share it with anyone  without walking away hungry.
also this way we can do the table service breakfast everyday that we liked last time :)
we ate at teppan edo!
this is going to be our first time with the dinning plan, so were just trying to get all the information we can.
the best dinner we've had was at 1900 park fare at the grand floridian.
but they cost the same as disneysized portions, so  not the best bargain for a family.
also i feel like i get next to no traffic, though i don't get much traffic on my art blog either.
i also wasn't really wowed by the adult menu, i was just interested in seeing the aquarium.
we've eaten at cosmic ray's, they're good too.
share | posted by unbalanced libra   at1:40 pm labels: disney dining, reviews
coral reef restaurant review - walt disney world sunday, february  14, 2010 recent discussion at the walt disney world (for grownups)
though i didn't think about being on the other side of the restaurant.
for the one day in the magic kingdom though we plan to eat at pecos bill's, we always make a point to eat there at least once during a trip.
i think i'm going to see about making a mommy blog on my blogger account, a few people seem to have more than one blog through one blogger account.
where else are you eating?
great food and fun character interaction.
it was yummy but wow, $7.99?!
i say no - we ate there last trip and were very disappointed.
i really enjoyed my experience  here, but that's because i'm a solo adult.
i also want to add that the more i come to your blog, the more i think i made a mistake of putting my mommy blog on wordpress.
hubby doesn't like fish too much anyway, so he was more than ok with canceling the reservation.
i like your artist blog - i follow it :)
i know this isn't the case for you, but many families will only go to wdw once in their lifetimes, and i'm sure they want to make sure it's the best possible experience without any disappointments.
i got seared sterling salmon - with ratatouille$23.99, fawn got  wild mushroom lasagna - roasted wild mushrooms, wilted arugula and spinach,  fortina, parmesan, mascarpone and ricotta cheese, rustic tomato ragout$16.99  and cj got grilled new york strip steak - served with roasted potatoes,  watercress and tomatoes tossed in caramelized shallot vinaigrette$30.99 for dessert, i ordered the famous 'chocolate wave' - served with brandied  cherries$7.99
the portions were very small.
or you wind up disappointed because the kids can't see as well as they want because they're sitting across the room.
but i went back and added you.
i could not see having the deluxe plan thought - that is a lot of food!
we're going again this year!
but it was fine, we just sat outside the restaurant for a bit  and relaxed.
when in may are you going?
i hate wordpress but the seo company i work for hosts all their blogs on wp as well as many client websites, they swear by it.
oh well,  eating here was an experience i will always remember
i am going to copy your response and add it to my post, with a link to you of course!
here is the review: after experiencing the nemo ride and checking out  the aquarium for a bit, we decided to head over to thecoral reef restaurant.
of course the lack of traffic could be due to my lack of blogging skills (i'm working on improving though).
we've done the best friends breakfast the last two times and loved it.
and i'm not sure if she'd like any of the options.
http://www.familydisneyvacations.com/2009/07/walt-disney-world-vacation-09-day-6_21.html
as of right now we have a reservation for the coral reef restaurant, but i've been on the verge of telling my hubby to cancel it anyway.
we are going to try chefs de france and wolfgang puck too.
have you ever stayed at wl before?
we stayed at the wilderness lodge last time, and i love the polynesian, but i've never stayed there.
the  flip side gray, author of solofriendly.com, left a comment that i  feel is worth adding to this post: you've got a good point here.