kids seem unfazed watching the same barney cartoon a hundred times.
first, skills are different.
professor marcus was interested in learning about how we learn as adults and as i listened i realized that there were loads of connections between what he was saying and language learning.
i have only just begun to read the book and so i want to comment on a few of the things said in the interview and see what applications we can make from them as everyday language learners.
if you are reading this though, you are probably an adult who understands intimately the feeling of fear or embarrassment that prevents you from speaking or stepping up to the mic or picking up your guitar to play for a group even though you are still learning.
a few specific words of advice were: don’t expect overnight success.
if you are reading this though, you  are probably an adult who understands intimately the feeling of fear or  embarrassment that prevents you from speaking or stepping up to the mic or  picking up your guitar to play for a group even though you are still learning.
as i listened to gary tell the stories of his journey and share the  research, he also came to the point of sharing a few words of advice with those  who called in and to the general audience as well.
first, skills  are different.
all my life i wanted to become musical,
(click here to listen to the npr interview) one main theme discussed in the interview is this idea that kids somehow have a greater ability to learn new things than adults, that a certain point comes around puberty where the human brains sort of locks up and new learning becomes more difficult if not impossible.
the new musician and the science of learning
inhibition kids don’t care.
they don’t care  what others think because they haven’t yet figured out that what others  think is somehow important.
i often encourage language learners to listen, watch or read the same  stories repeatedly.
you are here:   home »
learning to play the guitar might require more hours to master than learning to play the bongo drum.
everyone is born with the ability to learn another language – in that sense we are all the same.
misc., self directed learning »
i have always loved music but could never sing, let alone play an instrument; in school i came to believe that i was destined to be a spectator, rather than a participant, no matter how hard i tried.
(click here to listen to the npr  interview) one main theme discussed in the interview is this idea that kids somehow  have a greater ability to learn new things than adults, that a certain point  comes around puberty where the human brains sort of locks up and new learning  becomes more difficult if not impossible.
marcus is a professor of psychology at new york university and studied language acquisition as a graduate student.
some few just have a little extra in the language learning  department.
and so kids just let it go, they have fun,  they make noise and speak jibberish.
they may never have read about the ‘critical period hypothesis’ but somehow they have come to believe it.
my ears are dodgy, my fingers too  clumsy.
target your weaknesses.
professor marcus was interested in learning  about how we learn as adults and as i listened i realized that there were loads  of connections between what he was saying and language learning.
he does add a few important additions though.
those who progress fastest and furthest seem to continually target their weaknesses while maintaining their strengths and finding the most effective strategies for learning.
but marcus’ point in this is to point out that none of us is born with an inability to learn and develop a certain skill.
everyone is  born with the ability to learn another language – in that sense we are  all the same.
i actually listened to science friday as i scrubbed toilets and  washed dishes and was excited to hear an interview with gary marcus, the author
this  allows kids more repetition than adults who have little patience to stick with  something in which an immediate sense of accomplishment is lacking.
the premise of the book is his quest to learn guitar as a nearly 40 year old adult and his documentation and research of the process.
[affiliate link] and be sure and visit gary marcus online.
as i listened to gary tell the stories of his journey and share the research, he also came to the point of sharing a few words of advice with those who called in and to the general audience as well.
check out: guitar zero:
they don’t care if they can’t keep a beat.
our inhibitions only slow our progress down.
image credit please tell your friends and help edll spread  the word.
he also parses out some great advice for adults who want to begin to learn something new.
living in turkey, i have forgone some of my favorite programs likea prairie  home companion and this american life.
living in turkey, i have forgone some of my favorite programs likea prairie home companion and this american life.
bach was a world class musician because he put in the time, but also because he did have some natural talent beyond what most of us have.
in second language acquisition  theory this is known as the critical period hypothesis.
occasionally though i’ll findmorning edition or all things considered on the npr website to get a little update on the state of the news in the states.
and so while professor marcus uses language learning as a  springboard for discussing learning to play guitar as an adult,
for now, i’ll leave you with the above and hope that there is some encouragement to be found in knowing that we adults have all the necessary ability to learn another language and to learn it well.
the everyday language learner
language learning lessons from guitar zero language learning lessons from guitar zero written on february 13,  2012 by aarongmyers in misc., self directed learning tweet government,politics  news,politics  news,politics guitar zero author, gary marcus.
i have only just begun to read the book and so i want to comment on a few  of the things said in the interview and see what applications we can make from  them as everyday language learners.
get a weekly update of all blog posts delivered to your inbox.
but of course these aren’t related to any sort of  critical period, but rather to kids being kids and adults, unfortunately, being  adults.
but somehow they have come to  believe it.
he does add as well that the kind of practice we put in is important.
malcolm gladwell’s idea of the 10,000 hour rule comes up and marcus agrees with the assessment that to truly master a complex skill, 10,000 hours seems to be a close equivalent to the time needed to really become great at something.
the premise of the book is  his quest to learn guitar as a nearly 40 year old adult and his documentation  and research of the process.
they may never have read about  the ‘critical period hypothesis’
but as adults, we also have cognitive abilities to figure things out that kids don’t have yet.
learning to play the guitar might require more hours to  master than learning to play the bongo drum.
and finally he adds that natural talent does exist – that is, some people are born with a special talent for a certain skill.
bach was a  world class musician because he put in the time, but also because he did have  some natural talent beyond what most of us have.
here is how the book begins: are musicians born or made?
professor marcus discusses several other ideas in between the stories and examples he shares during the course of the interview.
they don’t care if they sound bad.
a few specific words of advice were: i look forward to reading the book in the next few weeks and hope to pull more lessons for everyday language learners from its contents.
to learners  driven by ideas of productivity and outcomes, watching the same movie twice can  seem a maddening idea.
it seems a fitting way to begin looking at guitar zero because i so often  hear people talk about not having a ‘natural talent’ or not being  ‘good’ at learning languages.
occasionally though  i’ll findmorning edition or all things considered on  the npr website to get a little update on the state of the news in the  states.
marcus points out  that this theory’s argument is getting weaker and weaker as more and more  research is done.
he does point out two factors that make it seem like  kids do better.
for now,  i’ll leave you with the above and hope that there is some encouragement  to be found in knowing that we adults have all the necessary ability to learn  another language and to learn it well.
the new musician and the science of learning.
today in fact i discovered that there is a presidential election  coming up this fall!
he does point out two factors that make it seem like kids do better.
last weekend as i was doing some saturday morning chores around the house i found npr on the ipod and it was like spending time with an old friend.
some few just have a little extra in the language learning department.
but time – and lots of it – is a requirement for anyone to learn  anything well.
i look forward to reading the book in the next few weeks and hope to pull  more lessons for everyday language learners from its contents.
this allows kids more repetition than adults who have little patience to stick with something in which an immediate sense of accomplishment is lacking.
get the monthly mailer newsletter the first of every month.
give a kid and instrument and they will patiently play it for  hours with no real concern that they are unable to play a tune yet.
it seems a fitting way to begin looking at guitar zero because i so often hear people talk about not having a ‘natural talent’ or not being ‘good’ at learning languages.
if any of you have read guitar zero, i’d love to  hear your thoughts and other lessons that we as language learners can learn  from it.
focus on good technique.
learning to speak a new  language will take more time to master than learning to paint a house.
time, effectiveness and talent professor marcus discusses several other ideas in between the stories and  examples he shares during the course of the interview.
all my life i wanted to become musical, but i  always assumed that i never had a chance.
i often encourage language learners to listen, watch or read the same stories repeatedly.
malcolm gladwell’s idea of the 10,000 hour rule comes up and marcus  agrees with the assessment that to truly master a complex skill, 10,000 hours  seems to be a close equivalent to the time needed to really become great at  something.
and finally he adds that natural talent does exist – that is, some  people are born with a special talent for a certain skill.
language learning lessons from guitar zero guitar zero author, gary marcus.
don’t be afraid to switch teachers if it’s not working for you.
i’d like  to try to extrapolate back to language learning some of the comments he made in  the interview onscience friday.
but time – and lots of it – is a requirement for anyone to learn anything well.
– just kidding, i’m not that out of  touch.
but marcus’ point in this is to point out that none of us is  born with an inability to learn and develop a certain skill.
and so while professor marcus uses language learning as a springboard for discussing learning to play guitar as an adult, i’d like to try to extrapolate back to language learning some of the comments he made in the interview onscience friday.
they don’t care what others think because they haven’t yet figured out that what others think is somehow important.
image credit 8 ideas for maximizing your language learning journey copyright © 2012
marcus is a professor of psychology at new york university and studied  language acquisition as a graduate student.
– just kidding, i’m not that out of touch.
his advice was focused at adults wanting to get started learning to play music, but it seems good advice as well for language learners.
i have no natural sense of rhythm and a lousy sense of pitch.
today in fact i discovered that there is a presidential election coming up this fall!
last weekend as i was doing some saturday morning chores around the house i  found npr on the ipod and it was like spending time with an old friend.
in myfree guide to  motivation and commitment i encourage language learners to “check their  ego at the door.”
they  don’t care if they can’t keep a beat.
get great discounts on edll products.
many find this a difficult task.
if any of you have read guitar zero, i’d love to hear your thoughts and other lessons that we as language learners can learn from it.
in myfree guide to motivation and commitment i encourage language learners to “check their ego at the door.”
guitar zero words of advice
and so kids just let it go, they have fun, they make noise and speak jibberish.
he also parses out  some great advice for adults who want to begin to learn something new.
learning to speak a new language will take more time to master than learning to paint a house.
in language learning  too, some may have a natural talent that makes learning a language seem  easy.
my ears are dodgy, my fingers too clumsy.
i have  always loved music but could never sing, let alone play an instrument; in  school i came to believe that i was destined to be a spectator, rather than a  participant, no matter how hard i tried.
8 ideas for maximizing your language learning journey get this introductory article which will help you maximize your language  learning.
give a kid and instrument and they will patiently play it for hours with no real concern that they are unable to play a tune yet.
in language learning too, some may have a natural talent that makes learning a language seem easy.
join the edll  community today!
those who progress fastest and furthest seem to continually target their  weaknesses while maintaining their strengths and finding the most effective  strategies for learning.
patience kids seem unfazed watching the same barney cartoon a hundred  times.
but i always assumed that i never had a chance.
i was once told to “get used to the idea that you are going to be the  town clown” as a beginning language learner.
i actually listened to science friday as i scrubbed toilets and washed dishes and was excited to hear an interview with gary marcus, the author ofguitar zero: the new musician and the science of learning.
to learners driven by ideas of productivity and outcomes, watching the same movie twice can seem a maddening idea.
marcus points out that this theory’s argument is getting weaker and weaker as more and more research is done.
i was once told to “get used to the idea that you are going to be the town clown” as a beginning language learner.
but as adults, we also have cognitive abilities to figure  things out that kids don’t have yet.
but of course these aren’t related to any sort of critical period, but rather to kids being kids and adults, unfortunately, being adults.
in second language acquisition theory this is known as the critical period hypothesis.
his advice was focused  at adults wanting to get started learning to play music, but it seems good  advice as well for language learners.