let me know, and thanks in advance.
but anyways i will jump off of my soapbox now.
convienience food is anything but.
it is time for america to wake up.
we should not condone eating prepared or fast foods, but we certainly must take into account other factors before we condemn it.
november 29, 2011 at 3:07 pm | seriously.
i am 22yrs old and i can cook pretty darn
we all do the best we can with what we have, but people who are as opinionated and rigid as you are really have no idea what it is to struggle.
i  better go tell her how dissapointed i am with my upbringing.
november 30, 2011 at 1:10 pm | hamsta if u dont think theres anything wrong with feeding kids already prepped  meals ur an idiot.read the ingredients on just about anything that didnt come  straight out of the ground or directly from the butcher.the majority of  ingredients are chemicals that require a phd to pronounce much less know what  they are or even do.diet colas still contain sacharin and nutrasweet even  though it has been known for 30 years both cause cancer.for the past 40 yrs  they told u margarine with all that trans fat was better.is anyone aware the  columbine massacre was caused by adhd medication?zoloft to be exact.but they  list marijuana as a more dangerous drug than cocaine.they changed the  definition of the word drug to fit marijuana in that category.todays definition  is a mind altering substance.the original definition is man made medication  anything of medicinal value found in nature is an herb.ive never known a  weedhead to turn into a homicidal maniac but thats the first side effect of  common antidepressants.
i rarely cook something i know the kid won't eat.
depending on the hours of my classes, i can plan  meals for my family, but there is no way in hell i would point my finger at  these so called bad parents for making one night a little less hectic than  usual for popping in a pizza or hopping through the drive through.
obesity  rates are higher in the rural south than anywhere else.
we don't have as active a "social" life as a lot of people we know, but our priorities lie in staying healthy and saving money.
november 30, 2011 at 12:47 pm | jkshaz you growing your own tomatoes too?
but i did it with breasts down and it worked - breasts cook faster so it worked it have them downside).
how about not bein' a hater.
i see so many people who pick there kids up from  school or daycare, bring them home, and let them park it format of the tv or  some video game, instead of having their kids help them.
i dont always have time or  energy to cook.
the first thing  we moms should scratch off the list is our guilt – that we're not good  enough or doing enough for our families.
november 30, 2011 at 1:02 pm | punctuation police@private runon make like a rag and mix in a period.
december 5, 2011 at 5:00 am | i don't care how busy you are: are people actually buying foods from grocery stores?
there's a lot of anxious parents that need to snark about how other people eat dinner just so they can feel better about themselves tonight, aren't there!
november 29, 2011 at 10:19 am | all you food nazis need to chill out.
you have a choice, watch your kid suffer or do the right thing.
buy a couple frozen ones and chuck 'em in the freezer.
and who's wrong, let's all just spend some time considering the actual nutritional content of the food we eat.
it doesn't take much to prepare healthy meals.
december 1, 2011 at 7:55 am | sue honestly – we had 5 kids in 10 years.
true, no one is going to die from eating a  processed food here and there.
some of us not only don't have much time (like those of us who  are full-time working single moms), and would prefer to spend it interacting  with our children rather than pushing them away so we can get a home-cooked  meal on the table in the half-hour available between getting home from work and  the store and starting the bedtime routine....
way to many people make excuses or say "i'll start eating better tomorrow".
anyone serving their kids anything but a purely holistic, vegan diet is  both criminally negligent and a lousy parent.
in the process i've learned how incredibly easy it is to make lots of dishes from scratch.
when a parent has time to throw ingredients in a crock pot, wonderful.
do you know how much actual food you can get for $10?
return the pan to the oven and continue baking until the cheese has melted and begins to bubble, about 5-10 minutes.
los of moms are at home because they chose to do so and not because they weren't smart enough to get a job.
kristen obviously isn't a single parent, so has help with the daily  activities from her spouse.
buying garlic already minced is a lot faster than having to peel and chop a clove each time you need it.
i'm gonna go have a bowl of lucky charms for dinner now that the kids are in bed.
you know the difference between a bagged salad and a frozen burritto, so don't try an bs your way out of your job.
http://www.realforme.com/self/body/blogs/am-ingredient-label-secretsnovember 30, 2011 at 10:24 pm | i agree.
november 29, 2011 at 2:29 pm | appreciate it, however, i don't think a few extra minutes in the morning or grocery shopping constitutes iron will.
for instance, we might choose to do frozen chicken nuggets one night with my 2 year old.
while i love cooking and enjoy making all kinds of things from scratch from her i learned how to cook in a pinch.
there are plenty of homemade recipes full of ingredients that "can kill you," and there are plenty of minimally-processed or even fully-prepared meals that are wholesome, balanced, low in sodium, preservative free, etc.
the ingredients contained within are typically related to corn and soy, the two industrialized foods our government subsidizes farmers to grow and they are not grown in bio-dynamic soils which means they lack the level of nutrients found in organic fruits and vegetables grown in nutrient rich soils.
november 30, 2011 at 2:53 am | a concerned parent one can also not help but notice you are up at 3am, likely being  unproductive.
i dont only have  work and kids to take care of.
most will not understand this but try having some kids with food allergies and being forced to feed them real food.
add broccolli and bake in oven for at 375 f for about 30 minuetes covered with tinfoil.
processed foods will set your kids up with a lifetime of health problems.
spray a little cooking spray on your nonstick frying pan, toss in the fish, add a squirt of lemon and some dill or whatever (i like cayenne and lime juice on tilapia), and you'll have a good, healthy protein even quicker than your microwave meal would be ready.
however, as easy as it is to beget a child these days, it is much harder  to care for one.
buying chef boyardee or tv dinners is.
for that, my wife, son and i eat dinner.
i would give my right arm for some good choices along those lines ... or for a cook to make us great meals 4-5 nights a week!!november 30, 2011 at 3:50 pm | ooo, someone just saw fat, sick and nearly dead.
november 30, 2011 at 6:06 pm | i was lucky enough to be raised in a household where my parents did, in fact, cook fresh and healthy meals for our family most nights of the week.
i am not a bad parent.
i didn't get from the article that the author was all about fast food and junk every day.
regardless, the judgmental nature of your initial sentence completely discredited the rest of your rather lengthy post.
people who say they don't have time to cook probably don't try to make time–they while it away with their social media friends or zone out in front of the tv or whatever, believing those things are essential to their lifestyle and sense of self.
pretty soon the argument will be, "you don't raise and slaughter all your own meat???
november 30, 2011 at 6:09 pm | this issue has nothing to do with one parent feeling superior or better than another.
who proofreads this stuff?november 30, 2011 at 8:21 am | clearly not you.
borderline criminal actually.
or even just parents.
frozen microwaveable foods are  not poison.
these factors allow them to have healthier, more frequently  home cooked meals because their entire culture and society supports it, unlike  in the u.s.
i'm not on a high horse, just baffled by comments such as, "i don't like to cook" or "i don't like to shop."
several times a week,  then, yes, you are a bad parent.
i dont only have work and kids to take care of.
i cut out most processed foods.
any comments, or questions?november 30, 2011 at 2:22 pm | hooray, richard!
anyone who gives their kids vitamins is a terrible human being.
i don't think she ever spent more than an hour makiing dinner.
i'm lucky to have a job that i really enjoy (no i don't get overtime pay).
add a pound of hamburger, cover it in onion power.
not everything is a federal case some people make it out to be.
we get home around 6, bedtime is at 7:30-
november 30, 2011 at 7:29 pm | you obviously are fortunate enough to not have the sole burden of supporting your family.
the so called too busy problem is why we have so many over weight people with diabetes in this country.
remove the pan from the oven and cover the entire top with the cheese.
-just choped small onion and sauté before putting tomatoes in it(does not take a long -5 min.)- you will see – will melt in your mouth!november 30, 2011 at 8:53 am | gramma had really small hands!november 30, 2011 at 10:21 am | grate some carrot into the sauce for the needed "sweetness".
november 29, 2011 at 1:24 pm | get over yourself.
it's so sad to me when i think of all the opportunities that aren't there anymore.
november 29, 2011 at 4:47 pm | my supermarket was offering tastes of what they called "5 can soup".
americans want to blame our fatness on someone else.
on the flip-side, there are many things with easy-to-pronounce, common names that are worse for you than the scientific named items.
we have a baby and laundry and all the other chores busy people have, but we find the time.
if you look at the french, the  italians, the greeks they all spend significantly more money and time shopping,  preparing and eating their food.
if i rely on prepackaged meals, i try to do it in moderation and cook when i can.
it's well worth putting in the time at the  outset rather than paying more in health care costs and premiums down the road.
november 30, 2011 at 6:06 pm | kate i was lucky enough to be raised in a household where my parents did, in  fact, cook fresh and healthy meals for our family most nights of the week.
november 29, 2011 at 11:47 am | talk about manners. .
easy, practical, nutritious.
well, there are certainly fewer doctors and health care facilities.
so as an adult i rarely made real food at home.
november 29, 2011 at 9:23 am | serving pre-prepared "food" to a child, certainly does mean you are a poor parent.
november 30, 2011 at 3:58 pm | our children are in the kitchen every night with us and that is our priority.
we do the best we can with some home cooked meals and the healthiest prepared stuff we can find in the minimal amount of time we have to go grocery shopping.
november 30, 2011  at 6:09 pm | kristin
everything sugar, salt...
if you are unwilling to prepare proper meals for your children, you should  not have them.
my wife and i both take leftovers for lunch the next day.
all i can say is that so far this kind of thinking has steered us well;  none of my household is overweight or unhealthy.
it is better to know that moderation is key, most of the time i will try not to eat as much as i can but sometimes its just too hard.
november 30, 2011 at 10:39 am | crystal november 30, 2011 at 10:25 am | jason k you sir, are my hero.
if, however, you cook using minced garlic,  canned tomatoes, frozen (unseasoned) vegetables), boxed rice (preferably  brown), etc.
do you realize how stupid everyone is for not having enough time to feed themselves!?
november 29, 2011 at 10:24 am | he's only going to learn how to cook for himself if he has no other options or grows up.
there are a great many healthy packaged foods at the supermarket with reduced sodium, whole grains, low fat and no corn syrup.
please live a little more life before  you make blanket statements like that.
the time involved is almost entirely oven and unattended stovetop time – actual kitchen work for the above is probably about half an hour, tops.
until someone walks in another person's shoes, they are in no place to put judgement on them.
november 30, 2011 at 10:32 am | why is it that when i try to reply to to a particular poster it puts it at the top instead of the troll i meant it toward?november 30, 2011 at 10:34 am | i think the confusion here really is about if we're taking the shortcuts on prepared otherwise "healthy" food (e.g. the bagged salad) or if we are really making the choices that include only fast food, and heat-and-serve foods.
organic is expensive and i totally agree about not buying all organic because of the cost.
your kids may be eating fresh meals slightly more often, but at least i can sleep well in knowing that my kid is going to know how to act in society from an early age and probably less likely to off himself once he realizes that the world isn't just like the perfect little cocoon that you have falsely created for them.
pour the sauce over the zucchini, and then very gently mix the garlic only into the sauce.
i don't own a microwave
when we go to "town" (60 miles away) we do the drive-through both for  the speed and convenience in a full day of errands and because it's a treat.
regardless, the judgmental  nature of your initial sentence completely discredited the rest of your rather  lengthy post. november 30, 2011 at 10:07 am | kannem
when i'm in charge, it’s harder and takes longer and could involve a tv bribe to keep my kid from amused while i try to cook.
dinners can be a little harder to be creative, but again, there's no reason to be buying frozen processed chicken and beef.
we also typically do pizza once a week, and yes, we do occasionally hit the drive through.
then at dinner time – presto!
but you all like to write today.
there is zero evidence that eating organic foods improves  health.
not known for her cooking, she sometimes drove me through mcdonald's after soccer practice or theater class and served me a swanson's tv dinner once week.
november 30, 2011 at 6:55 am | nika our weekday dinners usually consist of one frozen skillet meal (frozen  veggies, noodles, chicken, and some random sauce), on day of veggie  burgers/fake chicken patty sandwich with fruit and baby carrots, one day of  spaghetti with frozen meatballs or precooked chicken and mixed veggies, one day  of veggie pizza and cut fruit, and one day of a random frozen meal with  veggies.
some of us are just trying to get by the best we can!november 30, 2011 at 9:28 am | thanks for this article :)
i have no spousal support to pick up tasks while i cook.
and while the solutions (like ours) and the means are pregnant with compromise, it's worth finding options to help us navigate the complexity of feeding ourselves and our kids in a way that we can afford and live with.
you know the difference between a bagged salad and a frozen burritto, so  don't try an bs your way out of your job.
when my daughter starts school she will be running circles around all the mcdonalds babies.
thanks!november 30, 2011 at 11:14 am | another good article on the subject – telling what you should look for on the ingredient labels.
i think it's important to remember, however, that some are not so fortunate.
or anyother frozen thing that is quick to make, if people just pay attention to what they are eating in them they can be worked into a diet that isn't really that bad for you.
the only difference between you and me is that i do it without thinking that i'm better than everyone else in the world who may not do everything the way that i do it.
november 30, 2011 at 10:39 am | now you're just trollingnovember 30, 2011 at 10:25 am | @
once she married and had me, my mother figured out how to cook a few things - we often had nice arroz
do you realize how  stupid everyone is for not having enough time to feed themselves!?
i'm a vegan, but i respect others views just  as i expect them to respect mine.
in todays economic climate, even living in a  household with two parents far from guarantees that there will be someone  around to spend time cooking, as oftentimes both parents have to work.
if i want mac and cheese i don't use a box, i make it from scratch.
i started out with simple, 5 ingredient recipes.
there's no reason to be buying overpriced processed crap, when it just takes a  bit of planning.
frozen microwaveable foods are not poison.
now i  am a single mom, who also cares for a sickly parent.
now, sandra lee freaks me out, and not in a good way, but really, how quickly they forget.
got a quick-fix meal you serve to your kids?
aminoate complex (magnesium, zinc, copper, manganese, potassium) bitartrate (choline)
pre-cut your veggies at 3am since  you're awake anyway, and you won't need to be using flimsy frozen veggies,  which also cost double the price.
food choices is obviously a polarizing discussion, beginning when a baby is born.
nearly half of all americans use partially prepared foods or ready-to-cook foods to feed their families, according to a 2010 mintel survey.
my mom got me one of your cookbooks for christmas  a couple of years ago, and i love it.
i like part of a reposne above.
previously - feeding the beast – adventures in homemade baby food
brisket, turkey or chicken, with boiled vegetables.
i see no problem with it!
first of all, while i understand all the points being made here, she didn't say anything about having processed food every day.
no one is perfect, but we do what we can to make sure our kids get the nutrition they need.
november 30, 2011 at 12:47 pm | you growing your own tomatoes too?november 30, 2011 at 4:01 pm | ...
you people should be ashamed of yourselves for all the nitpicky behavior.
november 30, 2011 at 4:45 am |
my mom is a crappy cook, and didn't really teach me anything either.
i will admit though if i am in a bind, hambrger helper and mac and cheese work well, but they are not every night.
these factors allow them to have healthier, more frequently home cooked meals because their entire culture and society supports it, unlike in the u.s.
i am not going to lie i go out and eat fast food alot and thats  because it is 'fast' food.
i work more ot a week because co workers have to leave to go take care of their kids so those of us without kids are constantly picking up the slack.
i see so many people who pick there kids up from school or daycare, bring them home, and let them park it format of the tv or some video game, instead of having their kids help them.
as an example i have vac packed slow cooked beef cheeks ready to put on top of some pasta, ready in about 15-20 mins and cost $8 to feed our family of four.
november 30, 2011 at 9:28 am | ariko (&) sofia
we cook every day, 2 or 3 meals and eat 'out' for a treat.
just because you cannot pronounce an ingredient, does not make it unnatural or dangerous.
do not follow with dessert every night.
a few years ago i read "in defense of food" by michael pollan and it changed my life-
you clearly are the chuck norris of food prep and general parenting.
when i first got married (11 years ago).
november 30, 2011 at 8:21 am | jkshaz november 30, 2011 at 3:58 pm | dizzle our children are in the kitchen every night with us and that is our  priority.
taking care of five  kids is huge even for a full time care giver.
the attitudes i'm seeing in you all reflect in your kids, my peers.
i try to do make-ahead meals on the weekends, but even then, my  weekends are full of chores and errands i didnt have time for during the week.
most  people just wanna complain, but i did get 1 or 2 ideas and for that
november 30, 2011 at 10:54 am | elfoodito gimme a call when you are juggling 2 or 3 kids.
'november 29, 2011 at 11:01 am | by which you really do mean "means you're a bad parent" – right?november 30, 2011 at 4:48 am | people in this country need to get back to wholesome cooking and wholesome family values.
do not judge those with kids until  you have your own.
i have no kids, but my husband and i cook regularly, mostly using fresh ingredients but sometimes using canned or frozen.
do you know how much actual food you can get for $10?" lmao!
put the chicken onto the roasting pan rack and cook it for about 20 minutes per pound, maybe a little bit less depending on factors i don't understand.
we talk about their day, they learn to cook, and get great nutrition.
i better go tell her how dissapointed i am with my upbringing.
on the rare weeknight that i actually am home by 6pm, dinner is usually just a bowl of cereal because there's mail to sort, bathrooms to clean, laundry to run, and a thousand other things.
i want the time we have to be spent playing board games, talking, joking, going for a walk, whatever.
but alot of the time i just want to fix something that is fatty because it  tastes good.
justifying a steady diet of ultraprocessed food: that's what it sounds like you're doing, and that's where you lose me.
november 29, 2011 at 10:55 am | you must not have any bills to pay.
november 30, 2011 at 6:21 pm | seth kristin, you need to learn about how much hype the organic food movement  has been spewing.
you do what you feel is the best decision at the time and don't look back.
it will seriously rearrange how you think about food in this country.
share it in the comments below.
shortcuts allow me to hear about my kid's day at pre-school, talk about the bugs she saw and the snacks she ate, make sure she's learning to share and not getting into any fights.
it's not hard, but it requires space, money, and time.
i try to do make-ahead meals on the weekends, but even then, my weekends are full of chores and errands i didnt have time for during the week.
it's also a good last-minute company meal; serve it at that impromptu super bowl party!
it's the monoculture that's the problem.
for example, take that leftover canned pumpkin from thanksgiving and add it to instant healthy grain cream of wheat with milk and cinnamon; top with crushed graham crackers and you have pumpkin pie hot cereal in 5 minutes!
some of us simply have to feed our families anyway we can sometimes.
for more, go to http://www.amazon.com/speedy-sneaky-chef-favorite-packaged/dp/0762443294/ref=sr_1_1?ie=utf8&qid=1322661406&sr=8-1 oh, missy, i *heart* you!
november 29, 2011 at 1:33 pm | go to church, get la!d, control your blood sugar, get a job, but most importantly pi$$ offnovember 29, 2011 at 2:34 pm | actually, observer, you sound lazy.
we make it just fine on spaghetti, hamburger helper, canned vegetables/fruits, frozen biscuits, and the like.
november 30, 2011 at 3:50  pm | jason ooo, someone just saw fat, sick and nearly dead.
we don't go out to eat that much or buy anything pre packaged food.
my husband thinks it makes a great frito pie...although we differ on the flavor aesthetics of that dish.
watch less tv, spend less time on the computer and other gadgets.
november 29, 2011 at 12:40 pm | well put!
i have no kids, but my husband and i cook regularly, mostly using fresh  ingredients but sometimes using canned or frozen.
serve 6-8 preheat  oven to 350° f 2 tablespoons combined butter and canola or olive oil butter spread 3  medium-large zucchinis 3 cups of your favorite homemade or bottled sauce  tomato sauce (pg…) 1-2 teaspoons of minced garlic (if using canned  sauces) 6-8 ounces thinly sliced or grated provolone and/or mozzarella  cheese 2 tablespoons parmesan and/or romano cheese 12-ounces package  rotini or penne pasta, 1.
even those of us with more time or money than our struggling parents have a hard time cooking because we didn't learn how to do it well as children.
they are all demonstrably healthier than americans with lower rates of obesity and cancer.
november 30, 2011 at  10:05 am | william demuth prepared foods are a criminally bad choice.
of course, what you'll wind up with is a large pile of  'pre-prepared' food, but i guess there's some strange difference between food  you pre-prepare yourself and food pre-prepared by someone else.
i get it that it's "not hard" to make sauce from scratch, but when i leave the house at 7:30 am, return no earlier than 6, and have tiny children to contend with when i do, let me know if it's a sin i didn't stay up till midnight to make it, and chose to try to interact and play with my kids instead.
even the government 'cheese food' is dank!
and college is hectic,  it makes you do things you sure aren't proud of, food wise that is.
however, as easy as it is to beget a child these days, it is much harder to care for one.
" my mother's own mother had refused to teach her to cook, thinking that it would trap my mother in the home rather than in the world of work where my grandmother thought she should live.
my husband is italian and he would die if he sees someone putting this much of sugar.
i do wish you happy, memorable time  together, however you endeavor.
i almost feel like you can balance the "evil" of a marginal time-assist food with other items.
something most people don't bother to put in place before popping out a few.
november 29, 2011 at 9:24 pm | pre-prepared meals don't have to be bad.
you wanted to be a  parent,grow up and act like one instead of acting like the whining adult who  uses having a child as an excuse for everything.
stop the judgment  and hatefulness, and downright false statement.
and as they are both under the  age of 3, getting them involved in the cooking right now is rather limited at  best- perhaps not even wise when we're talking about hot stoves being  instrumental!
yes...because the only answer to the question you've raised must be that people who feel like they don't have any free time is that they are lazy....
november 29, 2011 at 3:29 pm | meghan, do you have kids, cuz if you do you obviously don't care to see them.
make a little effort, and  your kids will be healthier in the future.
"fast food and tv dinners did serve their purpose on days when we had one thing after the other or there was no time to go to the grocery store or nobody had clean underwear so laundry had to be done," says my mom.
i  agree ~ our italian family never puts straight sugar into the sauce.
november 30, 2011 at 1:33 pm | anyone serving only vegan, holistic, organic meals to their family must be extremely wealthynovember 30, 2011 at 2:25 pm |
now i am a single mom, who also cares for a sickly parent.
i don't  see any problem with it; i like to cook, but not everyone does, and fwiw i did  lots of me own 'pre-preparation' leading up to thanksgiving
one of the games they all play together is iron chef.
we get up early in order to get ourselves ready for work before having to get them up and make breakfast, get them loaded up and off to school.
november 29, 2011 at 2:42 pm | i think i's great that you are recognizing that there is unhealthy food out there.
november  30, 2011 at 12:29 pm | just here thank you katie!
if you're forced to feed a family on a very tight  budget, high caloric content paired with low price is this "bang".
they could not possibly have isolated compounds from stuff that comes out of the ground because you have to have a phd to pronounce them!november 29, 2011 at 8:35 pm |
it will seriously rearrange  how you think about food in this country.
i use these on the weekends to get a jump on the wheek whenever possible.
that's why i cringe when the foodies make speeches in condescending tones about how parents should try harder and commit more time for cooking at home.
and pretty much anything (even typically  unhealthy stuff like hamburgers, pizza, mac & cheese, fried chicken, etc.)
teach your kids something so they can function and not be depended on thier parents and the government forever.
well i don't like to work, pay taxes, pay bills, etc.
look it up – nazi germany murdered innocent people in ovens!
ok i was going to read some of the responses to this
i dont always have time or energy to cook.
they help count and measure.
i don't think that parents who hate cooking but buy healthful pre-prepared foods are being lazy- as long as what the kids eat is healthy
no wonder why so many americans are obese.
yes, by all means, pick foods that are easier to prepare – but let's not confuse treats of takeout or tv dinners with the kinds of foods that should be the biggest part of our diet.
there are also a lot of "quick fix healthy meal" cook books near the checkout stands at grocery stores.
but it has never been easy for her the way it has for mothers who have cooked from scratch since they were little girls.
there are a million ways to put all the pieces together, and there is no point in trying to crap on other people for sport.
great healthy meals can be made in crock pots and you are absolutely right about the shopping.
i almost feel like you can  balance the "evil" of a marginal time-assist food with other items.
in a lot of ways, convenience foods did more  to free women from the drudgery of forced domestic work in the 1970s than all  the legislative posturing in the world.
are you just better now?november 29, 2011 at 7:28 pm | dear shortsighted people, please get over yourselves.
dinner? mcd cheeseburger & a bag of apple slices, delivery pizza, etc.
i recommend it to everyone.
it's not laziness or a cop out when you're a single parent working two jobs just to make your child even has food to eat and making sure they have everything else they need.
the attitudes i'm seeing in you all  reflect in your kids, my peers.
use adobo or salt and pepper it inside and outside like crazy.
quit whining and fullfill your duties.
my mother admittedly didn't learn to cook until she had to when she married my father.
i can think of lots of examples of things that are healthy- rotisserie chickens, salad bars, pre-chopped veggies, etc.
and, as evidenced by your post, neither is rudeness.
the 'my mom used to do it, and i turned out ok' excuse is getting awfully tired.
november 29, 2011 at 9:25 pm | case in point ur healthier eating a pork chop and a salad than u are eating a can of spam and canned spinach and though it doesnt make u a bad parent to every now and then grab the kids a burger on the go
even in america,  talk to older genetaiion.
as someone with 3 jobs and limited time, thanks.
you can also serve over chips with melted cheese for nachos.
november 29, 2011 at 9:28 pm | just wait until mountains of laundry come your way when you grow those veggies with your kids – sure, you want mud on your carpets and furniture as long as everybody eats what they grow.
if that isn't an option, invest in a slow cooker.
november 30, 2011 at 6:02 pm | my phone has no spell check, my high school is the poorest in the state, and i have at least four seperate learning disabilities, so i apologize for anything i say incorrectly in my posts.
kristen obviously isn't a single parent, so has help with the daily activities from her spouse.
i do all of my shopping within two hours on sunday and prepare 5 out of 6 dinners in the crockpot before i head out to work one of my two jobs each morning.
my husband at mcd's quite a bit as he was raised by a single dad who did cook a lot of wholesome food, but he was also a busy doctor.
make a little effort, and your kids will be healthier in the future.
well i think, healthy meals or not, i am from tennessee we like to eat in the south especially on the hilltops of va, nc, ky, and tn.
december 1, 2011 at 7:43 am | the reason america is and will always stay fat.
by the time they were done, the war was over.
it only takes an  hour.
which i guess is the whole point of this article, isn't it?
people you don't get fat from eating any particular food, it the entire diet that must be assessed.
i would love to be able to afford that, but it simply isnt in my budget.
i'd prefer kids eat that way than eating a fast food meal.
especially when the point of the article (at least to me) is to each their own.
sometimes, in all of that, a  home-cooked meal made of fresh ingredients falls by the wayside.
what your idealistic view doesn't  include is when a marriage dissolves, or a spouse dies, then there is only one  parent to do everything.
many community centers offer weekend cooking classes for whole families.
don't give them tv, video games, cellphones, etc.
november 30, 2011 at 12:28 am | cassie danielle - you are rational.
we sacrifice by using our non-working time to help them with  schoolwork, play with them, take them to activities, listen to them unload at  the end of the day, or guide them in learning how to help with household chores  (including cooking).
november 30, 2011 at 9:37 am | high horse riders like you are the reason i'm beginning to lose faith in humanity.
i'm 17 and really don't want to grow up on this garbage.
december 1, 2011  at 7:43 am | mark
if that's not a clear depiction of the infantilization of society, i don't know what is.
pair that with some frozen veggies that you can steam in the bag and some whole wheat rolls, and you have yourself a pretty decent meal at a decent price.
for more, go to  http://www.amazon.com/speedy-sneaky-chef-favorite-packaged/dp/0762443294/ref=sr_1_1?ie=utf8&qid=1322661406&sr=8-1 november 30, 2011 at 9:36 am | 1busymomma3 oh, missy, i *heart* you!
we have two kids who are in sports and i, the father, still manage to cook meals with fresh ingrediants just about every day.
in today's world, many households have two working parents (if not single parents).
november 30, 2011 at 9:37 am | @william high horse riders like you are the reason i'm beginning to lose faith in  humanity.
please stop beating mothers up for their choices.
there is a significant health-wealth gradient in our country today, and food plays largely into this picture.
but i think this article is pathetic.
unfortunatley real food does  not bring in the big money.
my mother  admittedly didn't learn to cook until she had to when she married my father.
just because everything is  urbanized and grocery-store centered doesn't mean kids should forget where food  comes from, the joy that comes from watching it grow, imbibing it with your own  positive energy, and then getting to imbibe that energy back tenfold with the  food that comes from it.
dinner prep looks easy in the hands of a pro, can take as little as 20 minutes and tastes delicious.
the worst combination you can give to your children.
ergocalciferol (vitamin d) d-alpha tocopheryl acetate (vitamin e) niacinamide (vitamin b3)
november 30, 2011 at  8:52 pm | jorge amen, that's why i'm going to sell out and move back to the caribbean,  where i spent my youth, as soon as my last kid clears college.
americans want to blame our fatness on  someone else.
yeah, not great, but every meal has a serving of vegetables, every day has a serving of fruit, and i use whole grains when possible.
how much sodium is in that can of chef boyardee.
for my part, i think buying some precut carrots or salad bags might not  doom the entire household.
don't take it personally, it's not you.
don't pull the tired, working mother card.
being a born in  nyc and doing the rat race thing in the southeast has been enough for me; i  want to spend my last days where folks mean it when they smile and say 'buenos  dias' , and where you can pick seafood, eggs and the ingredients for the day's  salad off the back of a stake truck that drives by your house every day... december 1, 2011 at 7:33 am | sixdegrees
november 30, 2011 at 12:09 pm | sorry ..., but i only take tips for busy parents from other busy parents.
are you willing to come to my house while i am hard at  work, or caring for my ailing parent, or helping my kid with homework, and not  only prepare, but pay for the more expensive foods you speak of?
these compounds are not given large, scary names to scare the public or keep them ignorant.
but on the days when i have to work a double shift and my 3 year is screaming because no one will help her put on her shoes and my baby is trying to eat vaseline and i am doing my best not to scream at my other beloved children "get in the darned car!", you had better believe that i am hitting the drive thru or the grocery store deli for dinner.
if transportation is an issue, it's no surprise that dinner often comes from the nearby mcdonald's rather than from the stop and shop miles away.
or did everyone make homemade baby food too?
december 6, 2011 at 5:10 am | my mom was also a very busy person and, not being very inclined to cook, she rarely brought herself to spend more than 20 minutes in the kitchen.
they soak up the olive oil and chicken juices.
november 30, 2011 at 4:09 pm | boy.... lots of judgement out there.
did she ever burn food?
i grew up in a house where my mother didn't work, but hated to cook.
if you like, you can also portion out the bird and freeze individual servings so you don't have to eat turkey day in and day out for days on end.
tips for busy parents: cook meals on the weekend and freeze them.
there is no such word as "pre-prepared".
teach your  kids something so they can function and not be depended on thier parents and  the government forever.
you know what a bad parent is?
november 30, 2011 at  12:51 pm | jkshaz beautifully said.
you can not have it all, and it seems you don't even deserve it.
this is an article about your food choices being a bad parent or not.
simple, healthy meals can be made in bulk and are not expensive.
november 30, 2011 at 2:54 pm | courtney jeez.
even in this day and age there are 17 year olds who do not "get it".
great post!december 1, 2011 at 2:08 am | priorities are odd.
mcdonalds is not child abuse.
november 30, 2011 at 2:56 pm | mouse i was with you until you said "poison bricks".
due to that all of us can and will cook good meals.
dinner cooks while you are at work and ready when you get home!november 29, 2011 at 4:45 pm | full of sodium; terrible for you.
when my daughter starts school she will be running circles around all  the mcdonalds babies.
november 29, 2011 at 2:30 pm | i know some people who raise and slaughter their own chickens.
none of us have any health issues or problems.
face it, you just  have bad eating habits.
in my late 20's i gradually gained weight and decided that enough was enough, i was going to start eating better.
several times a week, then, yes, you are a bad parent.
you are a voice of reason!
monday i arrived at work 5:45am & left at 9:30pm, today i started at 6:30am and will be here until at least 8pm.
i have a shelf  full of cookbooks, i learned to cook as a child, i can make wonderful meals if  i really put my mind to it...
i love to grocery shop and my 6 yr old picks things out with me and helps choose the menu so he can learn how to cook and what healthy choices look like.
the one thing that is not addressed here is the significant savings of making food from scratch.
feeding your kid something pre-prepared  a couple nights a week isn't going to kill them, and it doesn't automatically  translate into shoving a happy meal at them either.
it is not an art or a way of life.
i guess that makes me a horrible mother, right?
i eat well, and if/when i choose to have kids, they will get their hands dirty growing their own food and be learning how to cook and enjoy it at a young age.
in a large pot, crumble and brown the sausage like you would ground beef.
plain with salt and pepper is fine.
what we need  are healthy prepared meals without all the additives, preservatives, etc.
you're brutally critical of things that can be talked out rationally and calmly, and i can't remember the last time i saw a polite post.
the problem with you american women is that you do not learn refinement like europeans do.
sometimes i eat pre-prepared food too.
november 30, 2011 at 1:26 pm | well, there are certainly fewer doctors and health care facilities.
november 29, 2011 at 4:09 pm | amen.
that doesn't mean we don't have pizza or takeout from time to time, but it's not the norm.
november 29, 2011 at 8:16 pm | where the hell do you live??
no one is asking op to be a professional chef, just learn to throw together some quick, healthy meals that don't come from the freezer.
small homes  are actually nice and cozy...and quicker to clean!
november 30, 2011 at 2:28 pm | no excuse, popping stripped chicken breasts and bag veggies (frozen) with mushroom sauce and bacon bits in the oven takes as long as a pizza, and is ten times as good for you and your family (more protein, more vitamins, more minerals, more flavor) and since when does it take that much time to eat strawberries with sugar-free whipped frosting or pineapple?
november 30, 2011 at 4:31 pm | so mark, who is cooking up and feeding your child all these from-scratch meals...you or your stay-at-home wife?
this is why we are getting fat.
have them  line up items according to size or sort them by category.
november 30, 2011 at 10:18 pm | since this is turning into a household hints blog, here's one: the freezer is your friend.
taking care of five kids is huge even for a full time care giver.
november 30, 2011 at 2:35 pm | andsoitis
this article is more about prepared ingredients than fake, processed food.
a fresh vegetable is anywhere from $3-4.
i feed my kid fish sticks that i get in the grocery store, but i pair it with fresh vegetables and a healthy starch.
if you pressed shift + y, you can capitalize your first word 'you'.
i usually add cut carrots, quartered onions and cut up roasting potatoes.
the speedy sneaky chef: quick, healthy fixes for your  favorite packaged foods offers 85 healthy meals in a hurry!
november 29, 2011 at 5:22 pm |
november 30,  2011 at 4:31 pm | pdxmum so mark, who is cooking up and feeding your child all these from-scratch  meals...you or your stay-at-home wife?
speaking of not growing up, i know someone who is over 50 and claims he'd live on delivery pizza if his wife didn't cook for him.
on saturday or sunday i plan dinners for the week and shop.
and for the record, my wife doesn't cook and doesn't care to.
chicken mcnugget costs $9.99.
when i was 17 i cooked all my dinners, and i loved it!
november 30, 2011 at 3:59 pm | the frugal hostess i've written about this topic before after hearing a food blogger say that  the food network was "ruining food in america" because of shows like  semi-homemade.
november 29, 2011 at 8:25 pm | i know!
november 30, 2011 at 5:09 pm | you don't even count on this forum.
if you prefer to eat foods that you can pronounce, that is your perogative.
" i'm going to continue to buy the amy's pizza and packaged veggies to make sure dinner can be ready in 15 minutes if need be.
so, what you are saying, is that anyone who lives any other way than your way, is a criminal?
please watch penn and teller's bull$hit show on organic foods– they debunk the nonsense.
stop using the excuse that you are "busy".
november 30, 2011 at 6:22 pm | jones you know why food is a problem in our society?
november 30, 2011 at 6:13 pm | i'm a single father (full-time) of a ten year old son.
i work because i have a mortgage and *gasp* my kids attend a public school.
just because everything is urbanized and grocery-store centered doesn't mean kids should forget where food comes from, the joy that comes from watching it grow, imbibing it with your own positive energy, and then getting to imbibe that energy back tenfold with the food that comes from it.
look at the horrible scary big-word ingredients they put in  vitamins!
there is a standard way to name molecules so that, if given a name of a molecule, a chemist can draw the molecule.
that foods come from grocery stores?december 5, 2011 at 4:52 am | of course there are times when people need to grab something quick because they are just not home to cook.
oh, and i had a job and was in a phd program at the time.
november 30, 2011 at 11:58 pm | likeit mmmm lucky charms.
what are you teaching your kids?
there is a lot more to being a parent than cooking a homemade meal at night.
but goin to fast food can be more costly per month than cooking yourself.
my grandmother most likely never ate tomato sauce in her life.
processed food is ok on an occasion but if you have not noticed... the  kids and people in general are getting fatter which is not healthy.
ok, 'pre-prepared' is redundant, but i guess we're stuck with it.
so yes – i rely a certain amount of the time on prepared meals and every now and then (gasp!)
anyone who gives their child water or any food containing water is a monster!november 29, 2011 at 7:09 pm | very amusing, quite clever, and yet sad.
and i'm still waiting for you to complete the sentence " not all are meant to be parents", as that is a sentence fragment missing a subject.
add some herbs if you like.
or invest in a crockpot!
we make up for it  with breakfasts and snacks that are more wholesome.
many won't get the joke – which is a terrible misfortune for their children because it means that they are undereducated in the basics to keep kids safe and healthy.
now on to the main issue  in question-
your kids are going to turn out healthy and happy, and you are doing the best job humanly possible.
yet according to you, if i give my kids a processed meal i'm a poor parent?
take care of your kid and give them the nutrition they need.
also, frozen vegetables are quite healthy.
read the omnivore's  dilemma and in defense of food by michael pollan.
yes, i very occasionally turn to convenience foods.
that goes for the person driving through mc ds everyday not hating on other family units who choose to make every meal together to the vegan fam getting over the fact that not everyone lives like them.
stop berating parents.
right...and there's a whole lot more to poor health than obesity, diabetes and high blood pressure.
her kids would learn to cook and have memorable bonding experiences with their mom.
-just choped small onion and sauté before  putting tomatoes in it(does not take a long -5 min.)- you will see – will  melt in your mouth!
some of us simply have  to feed our families anyway we can sometimes.
have them line up items according to size or sort them by category.
even in america, talk to older genetaiion.
and i know exactly what she is talking about.
mark!mark!mark!mark!mark!november 30, 2011 at 3:47 pm | some of us do sacrifice for our kids by working umpteen hours a week just to keep a roof over their heads, the heating bills paid, and some clothes on their backs.
searing a steak or chop and opening a bag of salad takes less than 20 minutes.
indulging in premade food every so often, whether it be mcdonald's or in the freezer case: fine.
november 30, 2011 at 6:50 am | ummm, how is "i can't cook because then i won't have time to talk to my kids" a valid reason?
and yes,  it would be ideal to cook on the weekends and freeze this food for the week,  but some parents have to work on the weekends as well, just to survive.
on pizza from the convenience store (we have no mcd s here).
and stop acting like your life is so much more hectic then the rest of ours, its not, you just choose to make it that way with your attitudes!!november 30, 2011 at 6:20 pm | erica - it's so wonderful that your parents spent so much time cooking you healthy food.
i'm downhearted thinking that you don't see the precious opportunities  slipping away by not allowing your children to learn to cook along with you.
it's quite simply an issue of the deterioration of our food  culture and the industrialization of food.
i will however, add  onion and bell pepper to the sauce.
part of the problem is americans have come to believe that cooking is more difficult than it actually is.
if, however, you cook using minced garlic, canned tomatoes, frozen (unseasoned) vegetables), boxed rice (preferably brown), etc.
add miso,  mushrooms, a hard boiled egg, good to go, also, dashi isn't hard to make at  all).
second, moderation is key in all things.
i currently work a ten hour day but make dinner every night-
i honestly don't  have most of those ingredients you listed, and spices run $3 – $4 per  jar.
by the way, i dont own a microwave either, but that is personal choice, and i dont condemn those who rely on them.
as well as a jaunty name for offspring.
we love bagged salads  and making our own pizza with fresh veggies.
that might be a  bit more helpful.
november 30, 2011 at 1:59 pm | richard courtney i agree with you 100%.
like this author mostly suggests, then you are a normal, concerned person.
and i made a lot of it from foods from our garden....
i made tons of hearty soups to fill them up – but i put up the soups the night before, after the kids were in bad.
november 30, 2011 at 10:34  am | crystal i think the confusion here really is about if we're taking the shortcuts on  prepared otherwise "healthy" food (e.g. the bagged salad) or if we  are really making the choices that include only fast food, and heat-and-serve  foods.
they are all demonstrably healthier than  americans with lower rates of obesity and cancer.
your sweeping and uninformed generalizations about how others should parent and what makes a good parent are shocking.
november 30, 2011 at 1:33 pm  | mouse anyone serving only vegan, holistic, organic meals to their family must be  extremely wealthy november 30, 2011 at 2:25 pm | just here
cooking dinner with little helpers is a great way to have fun.
buying frozen veggies, packaged salads, precut carrots is no big deal.
it might  make your stomach full but it causes more doctors visits because of all the  chemicals and salts and other things your body can't process make you sick.
a cheeseburger costs a dollar.
when i was little, i would eat out the marshmallows,  wait...my mother must be a horrible parent for letting me have lucky charms...
make a peanut butter sandwich on whole grain bread before you zap on of those frozen poison bricksnovember 30, 2011 at 11:01 am | kristen, you want to 'love your kids?'
too bad they didn't spend more time teaching you empathy and manners, though.
i am 17, but i think i'm rational enough to have some say here...
using the supermarket as your sous chef for minimally processed foods: good.
no, i don't go to mcdonald's on a daily basis, i use it as a treat for my children, but don't bash parents who can't live in your normal rockwell nightmare you call a life.
a pack of organic chicken breasts is $10.
push it around until the garlic turns brown.
that's too bad though, especially considering how much garbage is sold as "food" these days.
when we go to "town" (60 miles away) we do the drive-through both for the speed and convenience in a full day of errands and because it's a treat.
get off facebook and look up some recipes.
easy,  practical, nutritious.
for example, i have a great rice cooker, and cook 10 cups of brown rice at one time that can then be refrigerated and served over a week.
november 30, 2011 at 10:07 am | i'm downhearted thinking that you don't see the precious opportunities slipping away by not allowing your children to learn to cook along with you.
my daughter's school has a new home ec area that they have not had the financing to use.
great with grilled cheese!
november 30, 2011 at 5:02 pm | kristin you're wrong if you think any of the pre-packaged foods at a grocery store  are a "healthy" option.
november 30, 2011 at 8:53 am | grandkid@agi gramma had really small hands!
ergocalciferol (vitamin d) d-alpha tocopheryl acetate (vitamin e) niacinamide (vitamin b3) pyridoxine hcl (vitamin b6) cyanocobalamin (vitamin b12)
they needed to recover their r&d money, so they marketed it to housewives to cook food faster.
let those who are without sin cast the first stone.
we make time for this because  we value it.
it's not hard to throw some chicken, fish, or meat in the oven/stovetop/grill/crockpot.
november 30, 2011 at 1:10 pm | if u dont think theres anything wrong with feeding kids already prepped meals ur an idiot.read the ingredients on just about anything that didnt come straight out of the ground or directly from the butcher.the majority of ingredients are chemicals that require a phd to pronounce much less know what they are or even do.diet colas still contain sacharin and nutrasweet even though it has been known for 30 years both cause cancer.for the past 40 yrs they told u margarine with all that trans fat was better.is
november 30, 2011 at 1:59 pm | courtney i agree with you 100%.
you're brutally critical of things that can be  talked out rationally and calmly, and i can't remember the last time i saw a  polite post.
november 30, 2011 at 7:29 pm | just here you obviously are fortunate enough to not have the sole burden of  supporting your family.
the  people living there, though, are typically either a lot more unhealthy than  their urban counterparts, or they're prematurely dead.
(usually recipes say put the breasts up
danielle - you are rational.
december 1, 2011 at 10:27 am | pockaleelee better than toast and dry water!
so they always give me this stuff.
november 30, 2011 at 3:41 pm | hey look!
what an irresponsible and lazy parent you are!!!!"
we make time for this because we value it.
i don't see anything wrong with having that stuff occasionally, if necessary.
yes... you are a bad parent if you do not cook/bake for your children from scratch.
november 30, 2011 at 2:53 am | one can also not help but notice you are up at 3am, likely being unproductive.
wake up people!november 30, 2011 at 6:18 pm | i agree.
because we can't slow the  f#@& down!
canned corn is good, too.
i wish the author had considered these points when making her argument.
and lots of people missing the point of the article.
lunch is leftovers from weekend cooking if i'm lucky (again grab&go only) or whatever the cafeteria is serving.
november 30, 2011 at 2:42 pm | likeit i feed my children dry toast and water for dinner.
not spending every  evening cooking a fabulous organic dinner and then hand washing pots and pans.
i like that she sees me preparing food and will be able to fend for herself, plus we still get to chat about her day.
it and put the lid on put some olive oil in a frying pan, add minced  garlic jar, diced white onion, mushrooms.
we should not condone eating prepared or fast foods, but we certainly must  take into account other factors before we condemn it.
usually can have dinner on the table within 30-45 minutes of getting home on a weeknight.
if parents are terrible cooks, that should light a fire under them to learn to cook better so they can teach their kids.
alot of people seem to think healthy cooking has to be expensive but it's not.
a tip of my hat to you.
november 29, 2011 at 2:53 pm | i work 60+ hours a week and yet somehow, i manage to have a healthy, homemade meal prepared for my wife and son 6 nights a week (pizza on friday)
we don't love our kids less if we don't chop the carrots by hand.
it's better than getting spongy chicken "nuggets" shaped like dinosaurs.
prepare the  pasta, according to the package directions.
i'm in one of the most expensive parts of the world, and not even i pay that much.
how about the parents that duct taped their 3 year old, videotaped it, and then laughed when they yanked it off her skin.
link is at the end of the article.
buying frozen veggies,  packaged salads, precut carrots is no big deal.
i work more ot a week  because co workers have to leave to go take care of their kids so those of us  without kids are constantly picking up the slack.
it affects finances, emotions of both kids and  parent(s), as well as time factors.
good nutrition is the building block of health.
i will agree that sodium tends to be extreme in these kinds of products, but there are options out there that are reasonable.
november 30, 2011 at 2:32 pm | sorry, but if you feed your children mcdonald's more than occasionally and give them tv dinners (healthy choice, lean cuisine, etc.)
november 29, 2011 at 1:53 pm | you'll get nothing and like it!
now i subscribe to cooking magazines and usually try to try one new recipe a week and i get excited about new kitchen stuff
remove foil and add cheddar cheese on top 5 – 10 minuetes prior to removing from oven.
that  goes for the person driving through mc ds everyday not hating on other family  units who choose to make every meal together to the vegan fam getting over the  fact that not everyone lives like them.
an easy and quick meal, however, doesn't have to be unhealthy.
november 29, 2011 at 9:06 am | also, if you're intimidated by (or don't have time for) roasting a whole chicken, just get some chicken parts and bake them instead – you'll be done in less than half an hour.
additionally, many cities have zoning regulations that result in poor areas  filled with fast-food restaurants but no supermarkets.
the woman who drowned all 5 of her kids in a bathtub, or the one who drove her car off the side of a bridge into a river or better yet, the mom who microwaved her newborn.
its all about how you view food, some view it as a function, others view it as a pleasure.
for example,  take that leftover canned pumpkin from thanksgiving and add it to instant  healthy grain cream of wheat with milk and cinnamon; top with crushed graham  crackers and you have pumpkin pie hot cereal in 5 minutes!
november 30, 2011 at 6:22 pm | you know why food is a problem in our society?
the problem is that we all rely on them more than here or there.
i was commenting on the fact that you think you are better than everyone else, but now i can at least see that i must be better off than you since i don't see the world through s**t-colored glasses.
anyone aware the columbine massacre was caused by adhd medication?zoloft to be exact.but they list marijuana as a more dangerous drug than cocaine.they changed the definition of the word drug to fit marijuana in that category.todays definition is a mind altering substance.the original definition is man made medication anything of medicinal value found in nature is an herb.ive never known a weedhead to turn into a homicidal maniac but thats the first side effect of common antidepressants.
november 30, 2011 at 4:36 am | rubbish, eff u.november 30, 2011 at 7:17 am | super easy and delicious:: 4 bonless skinless chicken breasts instant brown rice (and water and butter according to box) fresh broccolli florets 2% shredded cheddar cheese (lucerne is good)
even a brownie mix can be healthier with  some sneaky fruit puree mixed in november 30, 2011 at 12:12 pm | crystal
good parenting is more than cooking from scratch.
an easy  and quick meal, however, doesn't have to be unhealthy.
when i was a teenager in puerto rico my mother worked the register at a department store, ran a boarding house and cooked rice and beans or pasta with baked chicken, fried fish, pork or onion cube steak with side salads or veggie escoveich on a daily basis for 20 years.
i chop veggies and prep ingredients for the next night's meal after my daughter is in bed (15 minutes?).
there's no reason to be buying overpriced processed crap, when it just takes a bit of planning.
november 30, 2011 at 12:10 pm | candace those cultures also have shorter work days than most americans, have more  sick/family leave time than most americans, and come from strongly family  oriented cultures where there are many generations of the same family living in  the same house.
november 29, 2011 at 1:27 pm | yep.
there's only 24 hours in a day, and you  choose not to feed your kids healthy food because you'd rather be playing bored  games? november 30, 2011 at 9:18 am | spell check please learn to write and spell like an adult before you decide to post.
spread the canola based spread all over the bottom and sides of a  9×13-inch pan. 2.
i use the orange puree in lots of quick foods to  give my daughter vegetables or fruits.
any comments, or questions? november 30, 2011 at 2:22 pm | eliza clark hooray, richard!
fast food, fast buck is the norm.
it's not laziness or a cop out when you're a single parent
i season chicken both sides with garlic salt and pepper.
i cook three meals a day for my family while home schooling my children.
if i  want mac and cheese i don't use a box, i make it from scratch.
we think of rhyming words.
true, no one is going to die from eating a processed food here and there.
i am not a bad  parent.
now on to the main issue in question-
we had a fairly successful home  business.
manners, ppphhhfff, you're definantly not one to talk.
november 30, 2011 at 10:21 am | patb grate some carrot into the sauce for the needed "sweetness".
it might make your stomach full but it causes more doctors visits because of all the chemicals and salts and other things your body can't process make you sick.
if it's easier to  grab a handful of pre-shredded lettuce for a salad and it means the difference  between having a salad and not having one at all, grab that handful and enjoy  it.
if you need to stay low in sodium, healthy choice is more expensive, but reasonable, and also healthy.
i show people how to add healthy and homemade touches to the better packaged foods.
we are all doing the best we can to  raise healthy, happy, well-rounded kids and it is the big picture that matters.
being a born in nyc and doing the rat race thing in the southeast has been enough for me; i want to spend my last days where folks mean it when they smile and say 'buenos dias' , and where you can pick seafood, eggs and the ingredients for the day's salad off the back of a stake truck that drives by your house every day...december 1, 2011 at 7:33 am | ok, 'pre-prepared' is redundant, but i guess we're stuck with it.
you have no idea what a bad parent is.
i don't see how it takes away from your family, either.
so judge not during the weekday marathons, because not everyone is blessed with the close commute or extra time to do everything perfectly.
how about that 19 year old dad who shook his child to death?
november 30, 2011 at 1:24 pm | sixdegrees one approach to this problem is to do most of the week's prep on a single  day, say sunday.
november 30, 2011 at 8:29 am | robertc
we all do the  best we can with what we have, but people who are as opinionated and rigid as  you are really have no idea what it is to struggle.
prepare the pasta, according to the package directions.
november 30, 2011 at 6:12 pm | katia, not only do i understand the challenges you face everyday, even as a cookbook author, i experience similar real life challenges of the weekday time
halfway through, stir the rice and broccoli.
and i worked very busy jobs in higher education.
we sacrifice our sleep to get even the most basic housework done after they're in bed, so that they have clean clothes to wear to school and a reasonable living space to come home to.
serve over the warm pasta.
stay fat and sick america.
this would take care of two issues: 1) you have the healthy meals you should have and 2) you learn to plan and cook and when you are on your own or have a family it will be second nature.
november 29, 2011 at 4:44 pm | i just printed that out.
november 30, 2011 at 12:42 am | 2 to 4 my grandmother most likely never ate tomato sauce in her life.
that might be a bit more helpful.
they are lot healthier with less  doctors.
europeans are extra fluffy these days too: http://www.euro.who.int/en/what-we-do/health-topics/noncommunicable-diseases/obesity women and children worldwide are best served by women coming together to support, encourage, and teach each other- not to spew snark across the pondnovember 29, 2011 at 8:21 pm | i'm with you – to a point.
i'd love to have more time..
buy veggies from the grocery store's salad bar and eat them raw!
if i may ask, can all  of you adults please stop bickering?
not so good for chicken if you need to be able to let the meal cook for an entire workday, but awesome for beef.
perhaps you should have thought your priorities through before having children.
yes we do eat mcdonalds once a month and occasionally there is that prepackaged meal.
i am a good parent because i teach my son to do the best we can, and  more importantly, that i value time spent with him, that i am available to help  him with homework or listen about his day, that he can participate in  activities even though i have to work a lot, etc.
it sounds like you have one child (hopefully a healthy one) to feed and a wife.
hungry individuals are looking for the "most bang for their buck", so to speak.
slice the zucchini into 1/4 inch slices and layer all over the pan.
it's a family thing, as it should be.
i will grant you that it is a good idea to know what you are eating, and not having common names for everything does make this more difficult for the average person.
my daughter sits in the kitchen and cooks with me.
so sometimes is all right–just not every day.
november 30, 2011 at 12:51 pm | beautifully said.
november 30, 2011 at 10:01 am | and lazy mooches like yourself give me the same sentiment.
and yes, it would be ideal to cook on the weekends and freeze this food for the week, but some parents have to work on the weekends as well, just to survive.
in this age of farm-to-table dinner adoration and making one's own butter and baking powder from scratch, i rise up in defense of the drive-thru, the tv dinner and the semi and fully-prepared dinners from the grocery store.
i,  on the other hand, decided as a broke college student that i would absolutely  have to learn unless i wanted to die a slow sodium filled death to ramen  (which, when made the official way, is actually quite good for you!
i don't think they're doing harm to their kids, they'd just rather spend that 15 minutes in the morning sleeping or on facebook.
also, why could she not share the time prepping meals with her kids and "catch up" on their day then?
i *love* to cook – but i walk in the door at night with less than 8 hours before i have to walk out again, sorry – i'm going straight to bed, not to the kitchen.
november 29, 2011 at 6:11 pm | simmer down, xenophobe.
and for emergencies where we run short of time i have several home made tv dinners in the freezer that are far better and cheaper than any bought tv dinner.
"with the time saved, we could still talk about what happened with a kid harassing you at school, without my worrying about burning something-which i did anyhow, every so often.
at 25 minuets check for doneness of chicken.
i just wish people would stop seeing cooking as being something so awful/scary.
this kind of my way or the highway attitude steams me up (no pun intended, mr. norris).november 29, 2011 at 9:16 pm | doesn't even have to be a crockpot meal per se.
some of us look at all those  ingredients and just can't come up with what to do with them.
i for one, have wanted to start my own garden for the past two years, but i dont have the money for it, or the time to prepare the small amount of yard i have.
easy roast chicken whole fresh chicken (murray's or bell and evans or something tasty) meyer lemon (or regular lemon if meyers aren't available) fresh parsley, rinsed and chopped up adobo spice if available (i use goya brand), or salt and pepper heat your oven to 400°f.
feeding your kid something pre-prepared a couple nights a week isn't going to kill them, and it doesn't automatically translate into shoving a happy meal at them either.
sure, you don't notice the effects now, but they can cause problems later, like cancer, dental problems, heart problems, etc.
november 30, 2011 at 5:17 pm | erica
fry it until the  liquid is almost gone.
holy kitty litter batman!
it affects finances, emotions of both kids and parent(s), as well as time factors.
november 30, 2011 at 9:18 am |
i  would give my right arm for some good choices along those lines ... or for a  cook to make us great meals 4-5 nights a week!!
november 29, 2011 at 9:29 am | if you are 17 years old you should be helping prepare the healthy meals.
november 29, 2011 at 1:33 pm | is that why every time i'm in europe i see more and more fast food and casual food restaurants popping up on every corner?november 29, 2011 at 5:19 pm | i agree with needing to feed healthy options to kids but do not agree with your attitude!
november 30, 2011 at 6:21 pm | kristin, you need to learn about how much hype the organic food movement has been spewing.
i just completed a new book on this very subject of using shortcuts in our healthy cooking for families.
and yes, she enables him.
the real answer to this issue is for food companies to make, and stores to sell, truly healthy pre-packaged meals for people like me.
cooking takes practice, and if the author would look at it that way instead of seeing it as a "chore", she could learn how to be more efficient in the kitchen.
november 29, 2011 at 9:13 am | i don't disagree that many americans are obese!
i worked all my life, and there was always a home make cooked meal.
well i  think, healthy meals or not, i am from tennessee we like to eat in the south  especially on the hilltops of va, nc, ky, and tn.
am i a bad parent?november 30, 2011 at 2:28 pm | not likely what had they eaten the rest of the day?
november 29,  2011 at 9:25 pm | hamsta case in point ur healthier eating a pork chop and a salad than u are eating  a can of spam and canned spinach and though it doesnt make u a bad parent to  every now and then grab the kids a burger on the go
but if u feed them tv  dinners more often than u cook u really need to ask urself if ur putting ur own  convenience before ur child cuz that would make u a bad parent cuz its obvious  u cant trust the government to know whats good for ur child.
processed food is ok on an occasion but if you have not noticed... the kids and people in general are getting fatter which is not healthy.
we learn and talk and it is my favorite part of our evening together.
do not tell about the time, it is just a matter of time management.
thanks for doing what you do.
november 29, 2011 at 12:53 pm | since when did women like you learn how to step out of the kitchen and use a computer?
" meh, sort of ...december 1, 2011 at 8:29 am | yawn, so what...december 1, 2011 at 8:36 am | ohhhh boy.
i have made some amazing beef stew and shoulder roasts while at work!december 8, 2011 at 3:38 pm | hi there fellow blogger!
november 29, 2011 at 9:28 pm | marie just wait until mountains of laundry come your way when you grow those  veggies with your kids – sure, you want mud on your carpets and furniture
of course, what you'll wind up with is a large pile of 'pre-prepared' food, but i guess there's some strange difference between food you pre-prepare yourself and food pre-prepared by someone else.
the closer to  natural it is, the healthier it is (generally), but it's ok to substitute some  canned/frozen/etc. ingredients.
i couldn't have said it better myself!
right now, turkey is dirt cheap.
november 30, 2011 at 2:35 pm | anyone serving their kids anything but a purely holistic, vegan diet is both criminally negligent and a lousy parent.
you should  be in to this about a half of an hour.
amy's pizza is organic, and not that bad for you.
good for you, keeping your family fed and healthy!november 29, 2011 at 4:46 pm | figureitout, how condescending and myopic can you be?
"for those of us for whom cooking is not an occupation or a hobby, it takes longer.
balance seems like a good concept here – balance time with your kids, healthy food and timesavers.
november  30, 2011 at 12:24 pm | eliza clark
you work endlessly to pay for a new car, a huge television, school loans for a degree that won't get you anywhere, some designer clothes you don't need, and other piles of crap stacked so high you don't have room for it in your 3800 sq ft suburbian house you can't afford.
i know how to eat healthy sure but alot of the time i just want to fix something that is fatty because it tastes good.
serve with a buffet of shredded cheese, chopped onions, green chile (i like 505 brand), tortillas, cornbread, sour cream...anything you and yours like on chili.
very well put, a big part of the puzzle that a lot of people overlook!!
second of all, just because a  parent can't, for whatever reason, cook actual meals daily, that doesn't mean  in the slightest that they are bad parents–it means that aspect of  parenting is a skill needing improvement.
november 29, 2011 at 8:35 pm | ah, but *i* blew the glass for jars myself...
november 29, 2011 at 2:16 pm | kudos to you.
what we need are healthy prepared meals without all the additives, preservatives, etc.
it only takes an hour.
december 1, 2011 at 2:02 am | i feed my kid healthy meals every day and provide him with everything he needs.
but it is what it is.
november 29, 2011 at 12:33 pm | you sound lazy.
my husband is italian and he would  die if he sees someone putting this much of sugar.
i also think it's important to take from the original article the idea that people are doing the best they can.
we eat pizza once a week, believe me, i understand balance.
but  still there is nothing can be compared and better than food cooked by a wife or  mother...
i was able to cook good meals.
making everything from scratch every day is not very realistic.
unfortunatley real food does not bring in the big money.
i've even seen these ingredients in food!
get off your high horse.
this is super delicous, i don't have kids but everyone i know with kids enjoys this recipe and appreciate how simple it is!
small homes are actually nice and cozy...and quicker to clean!november 30, 2011 at 8:52 pm | amen, that's why i'm going to sell out and move back to the caribbean, where i spent my youth, as soon as my last kid clears college.
anyhow, i read that getoveryourselves is a bit more realistic and functional than you may think.
hungry individuals are looking for the "most bang for their  buck", so to speak.
there are a million ways to put all the pieces together, and there is no point  in trying to crap on other people for sport.
we are all proud that you work youself to the bone.
they are not technically as healthy as vegetables fresh out of a garden but they are often equally as healthy as vegetables from the grocer.
i like to use a meyer lemon when they're available.
november 30, 2011 at 6:03 pm | i grew up with at least one home-cooked meal at home (during the school year) and def on the weekends and holidays.
the term bad parent shouldn't partain to the way parents feed their kids.
november 30, 2011 at 9:56 am | "a 20pc.
third, we need to teach our children tolerance for other ways of doing things  and for other opinions, flexibility in the way we live, and moderation in all  things.
the kitchen is mine and we're quite happy with that!december 5, 2011 at 10:21 am |
look at the horrible scary big-word ingredients they put in vitamins!
discovered your site by means of the search engine, and was forwarded to your web site, lol.
november 29, 2011 at 5:01 pm | actually, i've never had a problem pronouncing any word i've seen on a product label...
they are 4 and 5 and can be quite helpful and learn a lot in the process.
you european women need to learn how to act like respectful individuals and not walk around with a european stick up your ass.
what's wrong with buying a rotisserie chicken from the store if you don't have time to roast one yourself?november 29, 2011 at 5:20 pm | as a chemist, i so strongly dislike the argument that ingredients you cannot pronounce are bad.
it just takes a  bit more planning and organization.
there are a great many  healthy packaged foods at the supermarket with reduced sodium, whole grains,  low fat and no corn syrup.
november 30, 2011 at 4:14 pm | all foods are prepared.
prepackaged food is cheap and fills a belly so homework and laundry can alos be done.
she never did become all that proficient at the prep work but what she did do was stockpile very efficient recipes where she could throw everything together, toss it in the oven and go do something else.
it was more about using the pre cut fresh stuff that's avaliable more and more.
read the omnivore's dilemma and in defense of food by michael pollan.
it doesn't mean that i disagree with fresh foods being more healthy, just sometimes i don't have the time or resources.
make it as much natural and pure as you can.
yes, it takes away from my personal free time (not my time with my family, i am willing to make the 'me-time' sacrifice) to shop for healthy food and learn to cook it.
what a fun challenge!
i just  completed a new book on this very subject of using shortcuts in our healthy  cooking for families.
i inherited a lot of her recipes and though i usually take my time with cooking if i'm in a hurry i can still throw together a lasagna, roasted chicken, spanish rice and dozens of other meals together in 20 minutes and move on to something else.
just skip the kind that have sauce all over them.
your child will remember the time you took to look her in the eye and talk about her day at school more than she'll remember the fact that you started the chicken recipe from scratch.
condoms cost a quarter so making babies you can't handle is not my problem either feed your kids or eat them, its no skin off my teeth november  30, 2011 at 10:20 am | humoratti appreciado@will
unless they are starving which doesn't happen much in america these days or it shouldn't.november 30, 2011 at 2:30 pm | richard, please acknowledge that 1 in every 5 kids in this country currently go to bed hungry–hence your comment was way out of line.
i  was commenting on the fact that you think you are better than everyone else,  but now i can at least see that i must be better off than you since i don't see  the world through s**t-colored glasses.
i do wish you happy, memorable time together, however you endeavor.
condoms cost a quarter so making babies you can't handle is not my problem either feed your kids or eat them, its no skin off my teethnovember 30, 2011 at 10:20 am | lmao! win!november 30, 2011 at 10:23 am | and lazy people like you should remember wearing rubber when making love.
push it around until the garlic turns  brown.
we cook every day, 2  or 3 meals and eat 'out' for a treat.
november 29, 2011 at 2:10 pm | i don't see the problem with the food this author talks about serving.
if transportation is an  issue, it's no surprise that dinner often comes from the nearby mcdonald's  rather than from the stop and shop miles away.
the reason america is and will always stay fat.
they will explain you what they ate.
i, on the other hand, decided as a broke college student that i would absolutely have to learn unless i wanted to die a slow sodium filled death to ramen (which, when made the official way, is actually quite good for you!
crunch, hungry kids that need to be fed fast in 5 minutes on the way to soccer,  or not having time to prep something completely from scratch.
many more parents today are the children of parents who did not know how to cook, so i applaud any supermarket effort that makes it easier to eat at home - even if it involves opening a chicken pasta combo package and pre-cut veggies.
in todays economic climate, even living in a household with two parents far from guarantees that there will be someone around to spend time cooking, as oftentimes both parents have to work.
easiest of all – don't cook!
and of course mined the metal for the lids and forged them myself.
everything in a diet works together.
first of all, while i understand all the points being made here, she didn't say  anything about having processed food every day.
i'm about to leave work and go home, where my husband is probably serving our 18 month old organic breaded fish sticks.
first, personal responsibility  for what we do, and how we eat.
they're nutritionally just about the same as fresh, and usually pretty cheap if you get store brand.
and i do try to learn to cook simple good dishes that even parents like me can handle.
your kids are going to turn out  healthy and happy, and you are doing the best job humanly possible.
not to mention the mmmgoodness of eating healthful foods that were prepared by your own hands.
and, if given the structure of a molecule, a chemist can name it.
every sunday afternoon i'd prep and cook for the  week so we were eating healthy lunches and had healthy dinners when we came  home.
one approach to this problem is to do most of the week's prep on a single day, say sunday.
it is called water intoxication, look it up.
even though a lot of this  prep was done well in advance – probably longer than the prepared food  you buy in supermarkets has been sitting around – it was just fine, and  no one would be able to tell the difference if it had been slavishly prepped  just moments before cooking.
we have fun, and from time to time a carrot, olive or nut creeps it's way into their mouth.
there is zero evidence that eating organic foods improves health.
it's the same kind of thinking that leads people to believe that vaccines can cause autism.
i think the best we can do for the future generations is to remove ourselves from the agricultural system as it stands now.
i eat well, and if/when i  choose to have kids, they will get their hands dirty growing their own food and  be learning how to cook and enjoy it at a young age.
i also live in a very small town where ingredients are not always available and the store actually closes in the evening.
every sunday afternoon i'd prep and cook for the week so we were eating healthy lunches and had healthy dinners when we came home.
november 29, 2011 at 2:24 pm | cheaper?
my mother cooked big batches of stew or other dishes on the weekends and punted on soccer practice and theater class nights.
many children are raised in single-parent households, and in order to keep a roof over their head, clothes on their back and food in their belly, parents have to work long hours that often don't allow for entirely homemade meals.
as long as everybody eats what they grow.
however, she made fresh, simple meals every night.
if you walk around a super-market almost 90% of everything in it can be sourced back to corn and soy beans.
an expert cook could probably make things faster but they have to concentrate.
i know what you're saying, but that line was funny.
slice the zucchini into 1/4 inch slices and layer  all over the pan.
november 30, 2011 at 4:04 pm | danielle, that's why this country is doing as poorly as it is, this is the talk-the-talk generation, infested with critical, snipy, functionally unfit people who are bound to electronic gadgets, can't do a week's worth of productive manual labor to save their lives and become brittle and hostile when they are bested in the workplace by little brown people who can hardly speak a word of english.
thanks to a digital meat thermometer and reading lots of cooking blogs, lol!november 29, 2011 at 8:22 pm | all you food nazis need to chill out.
pour the sauce over the zucchini, and then very gently  mix the garlic only into the sauce.
meaningful time after a long day.
november 29, 2011 at 8:45 pm | sorry, but if what your parents are feeding you is related to your spelling and grammar, then it is one big fail.november 30, 2011 at 1:02 pm | make like a rag and mix in a period.
after a month of cooking your own dinners from scratch, you'll have lots of spices on hand to be able to "throw together" something on the fly.
november 29, 2011 at 9:22 pm | has decided food and parenting make for angry people.
wow, anal much?november 30, 2011 at 9:55 am | agree with op & the "get over it" crowd.
nice of you to consider me lazy without even knowing me.
november 29, 2011 at 5:04 pm | sorry, you don't make sense.
either focus on your family or don't have one.
but i simply am incapable of coming up with a  well-planned, healthy meal on a daily basis without a huge amount of thought  and effort.
remove the pan from the  oven and cover the entire top with the cheese.
my parents lived their lives very much the way i do  now, with both of then working full time, one in school too, all well running  our family orchard and raising 3 kids, it probably worked so well because they  planned ahead and made us part of their lives and activities, and a large part  of that was helping to cook!!
obesity rates are higher in the rural south than anywhere else.
anyways pre-prepared foods are not a problem, mcdonalds, and other  fast food places are not a problem.
they eat natural foods and it is as simple as that.
or anyother frozen thing that is quick to make, if  people just pay attention to what they are eating in them they can be worked  into a diet that isn't really that bad for you.
yes, i have to budget carefully to afford decent, fresh food.
we sacrifice our sleep to get even the most basic  housework done after they're in bed, so that they have clean clothes to wear to  school and a reasonable living space to come home to.
but go ahead and keep rationalizing.
ive been a vegetarian for 5 years and both my husband
we stay away from fast food (except on occasion, like last night) and boxed meals because they are loaded with sodium and other horrible preservatives, hydrogenated oils, etc.
november 29, 2011 at 7:41 pm | *likes post*november 30, 2011 at 11:18 am | cooking is not hard or time-consuming, so those who say they don't know how are just using it as an excuse unless they are blind, deaf, and/or illiterate.
my wife works 60 hours a week and so do i.
we make up for it with breakfasts and snacks that are more wholesome.
i'm in my mid  twenties, and pack a lunch every single day for myself and my boyfriend.
i'm sorry, but it's laziness to say this can't be done.
alot of us feel that way once in a while.
for those of you who are good,  quick home cooks who happen to be criticizing the author, perhaps you could  post a recipe or two of your own so that others can benefit?
so, what you are saying, is that anyone who lives any other way than your  way, is a criminal?
i don't even want to write this comment anymore honestly  its disgusting to read the nit picky crap people bicker about.
and lots of people missing the point  of the article.
as it is, it falls flat and sounds more like a rationalization than a good reason to feed your family poorly.
serve 6-8 preheat oven to 350° f 2 tablespoons combined butter and canola or olive oil butter spread 3 medium-large zucchinis 3 cups of your favorite homemade or bottled sauce tomato sauce (pg…) 1-2 teaspoons of minced garlic (if using canned sauces) 6-8 ounces thinly sliced or grated provolone and/or mozzarella cheese 2 tablespoons parmesan and/or romano cheese 12-ounces package rotini or penne pasta, 1.
i like this recipe because it's fast and the leftovers freeze well.
everyone has their own value system.
november 30, 2011 at 10:05 am | prepared foods are a criminally bad choice.
november 29, 2011 at 2:29 pm | weather forecast
even a brownie mix can be healthier with some sneaky fruit puree mixed innovember 30, 2011 at 12:12 pm | for my part, i think buying some precut carrots or salad bags might not doom the entire household.
i am now lucky enough that i have a job that allows me to cook nutritious meals most nights of the week.
try doing it  7 nights a week with kids running around that require supervision and there may  be the occasional shortcut needed.
people need to slow down and realize what's important.
november 30, 2011 at 10:20 pm |
the night before, take one from the freezer and put it in your fridge.
november 29, 2011 at 11:04 am | obesity is not confined to americans.
pre packaged meals once or twice a night is no crime-believe me  stay-at-home-moms do it too.
my husband and i have two  kids, and we both are enrolled in college full time and my husband also works a  full time job on top of that.
combine that with some leftover rice, or a microwaved baked potato, and some veggies.
they are lot healthier with less doctors.
too bad they didn't spend more time teaching you empathy and  manners, though.
there is some fun and functionality in eating what is available sometimes –and i'm sure your kids will survive.
but most meals at our house are cooked from fresh whole ingredients.
great post! december 1, 2011 at 2:08 am | cella priorities are odd.
i'm a little surprised at some of the very negative responses.
get off your high horse and please keep your "european" thoughts to yourself.
november 29, 2011 at 2:18 pm | a 20pc.
we get up early in order  to get ourselves ready for work before having to get them up and make  breakfast, get them loaded up and off to school.
spread the canola based spread all over the bottom and sides of a 9×13-inch pan. 2.
i did a lot of 'convenience food' meals (i.e., put convenience foods like jarred sauce together to make something).
i myself hate serving dinner at 8:45 pm, and i'm not about to miss burn notice or the walking dead for something so mundane as cooking!
my kids were amazed when they left home and found out that soup is sold in cans.
excuse me while i drink some gatorade – made by food scientists in a factory.
he's the fittest and healthiest person i know, while i hardly ever eat any of that, and let's just say i've got a ways to go in the fitness department.
yes, it's sad that high sodium ramen costs merely cents while salad fixings and lean meat cost significantly more, but such is the current state of affairs.
november 30, 2011 at 4:14 pm | sixdegrees november 30, 2011 at 6:12 pm | missy chase lapine, author of the sneaky chef cookbooks katia, not only do i understand the challenges you face everyday, even as a  cookbook author, i experience similar real life challenges of the weekday time
if they are soggy, they're being prepared poorly.
ariko, jakarta – indonesia november 30, 2011  at 9:24 am | lowell
i love the suggestion of adding fresh veggies to a frozen meal.
and i'm proud of that.
that includes bags o' salad, minced garlic and frozen pizza.
it's a cop out because we as a society need to fundamentally realign the way we think about food and eating.
if i  rely on prepackaged meals, i try to do it in moderation and cook when i can.
in some two-parent families with enough money and time and help, please do turn off the electronic devices and try to cook with your children - and eat with them too.
she was defending pre-packaged foods, which is really very different.
and you'll have lunch and dinner for four for several days, and you can make a couple gallons of soup from the carcass that can also be frozen.
important that we all keep turning this engagement into possible solutions, the best of which, will live by the decisions of the market.
that's the point; don't feel bad if you can't do everything from scratch.
you wanted to be a parent,grow up and act like one instead of acting like the whining adult who uses having a child as an excuse for everything.
what your idealistic view doesn't include is when a marriage dissolves, or a spouse dies, then there is only one parent to do everything.
prime example is this recipe from the cookbook: love more feed less (less prepackaged and previously prepared): oodles of noodles and zuckles (zucchini pasta)
cooking meat was my biggest challenge.
november 30, 2011 at 6:02 pm | danielle my phone has no spell check, my high school is the poorest in the state,
that's the sad slope america is going,  excuses for everything!
november 29, 2011 at 10:18 am | we all need parenting skills kids should be a investment not a curse.
we learn and talk and it is my favorite  part of our evening together.
december 2, 2011 at 2:59 pm | just boil the piss out of some chicken.
seriously, i just don't see what the problem is here.
anyways pre-prepared foods are not a problem, mcdonalds, and other fast food places are not a problem.
got a problem with that, do you?
i learn from him how to cook pasta sauce, and believe me you do not need more than a small, tiny pinch of sugar.
it's not hard to boil some whole grain spaghetti, top it with pre-made sauce (or even better, chop up some tomatoes and basil you grow yourself), and bake some garlic bread.
we have delivery/carryout stores and frozen.
it'll be thawed by the time you get home at night (or, you could defrost it in the microwave, but that sometimes starts it cooking).
my wife and i spend ten times the amount of time that you spend cooking up your emeril dishes for your family bringing our son to therapies and doctors and trying to manage raising triplet girls at the same time.
i don't see any problem with it; i like to cook, but not everyone does, and fwiw i did lots of me own 'pre-preparation' leading up to thanksgiving
november 29, 2011 at 10:09 am | you are plenty old enough to cook.
boo f-ing hoo,  you made the decision to have children, deal with it.
it doesn't mean that i disagree  with fresh foods being more healthy, just sometimes i don't have the time or  resources.
why not make a list of healthy foods you would like to prepare and go to the store with your parents and select the ingredients and then help with the preparation.
it's well worth putting in the time at the outset rather than paying more in health care costs and premiums down the road.
not all are meant to be parents.
it's not healthy, even the vegetables.
processed  foods will set your kids up with a lifetime of health problems.
but these are my choices.
how do you otherwise know if there is any lead in that store-bought mason jar of yours?
but there are a few of us who work full time, and cook healthy well rounded meals every night of the week.
november 30, 2011 at 12:24 pm | there are recent studies that show that many rural areas, particularly in the south, have poorer nutrition because there are fewer transportation options, smaller stores with much worse selection of healthy and fresh foods, and yet still the preponderance of fast foods and convenience stores.
cut a lemon in half and stuff 1/2 lemon and fresh parsley (if you have it) into the cavity.
stop whining and do what's right for yourself and your kids, instead of what is easy and familiar.november 29, 2011 at 10:35 am | i totally agree with the practice part, kim.
november 29, 2011 at 1:21 pm |
even shake&bake isn't so bad!
they are 4 and 5 and can be quite helpful and learn a lot in the  process.
when i was able to stay at home, i also cooked.
they don't buy it otherwise.
the problem is that we all rely on them more  than here or there.
i personally could not eat this preprepared rubbish as i do know how to cook and can put together a quick meal in about the same time as it takes to heat a cheese laden sodium filled pizza.
it's the parents who seriously rationalize going to a drive thru every nigth because they are "busy".
return the pan to the oven and  continue baking until the cheese has melted and begins to bubble, about 5-10  minutes.
gradually, i started to like cooking more and more and made it a goal to learn new techniques.
in a lot of ways, convenience foods did more to free women from the drudgery of forced domestic work in the 1970s than all the legislative posturing in the world.
you can make unbelievable meals in the slow cooker with maybe 4 minutes of prep before work.
to offset the assumed additional sodiums and whatnot from using that  convenience, i'll serve with steamed fresh vegetables, and maybe a rice or  noodle (not a packaged, sauced variety).
i think the best we can do for the  future generations is to remove ourselves from the agricultural system as it  stands now.
'cuz mcd's only offers virtual food?
november 30, 2011 at 9:18 am | from one chemist to another, you nailed it.
hence, your american obesity epidemic.
bake for 25-30 minutes.
ariko, jakarta – indonesia keep sharing
you're a great parent!
"breast is best" has become such a rallying cry that mothers who choose not to nurse are almost forced to go underground with that choice because our society has such an attitude of "persecute the parent".
relying on fast food and prepackaged meals is a cop out.
look up the origin of microwaves, they were originally developed as a weapon by raytheon at the end of wwii.
and don't get me started on water.
or, better still, making the most of that time so that you all don't miss the chance to be together, for learning/practicing fundamental math skills while measuring and combining ingredients, for introducing them to other cultures and traditions, helping them to learn how to take care of themselves and others by crafting delicious and nutritious meals, and perhaps, most importantly, letting them learn from your example how to gracefully – even humorously! – accept a situation when it doesn't turn out as you have hoped.
most of us have a jobnovember 29, 2011 at 11:26 am | congratulations on living in your own little slice of 1950.
do not follow with dessert every  night.
today i come home from work, fix my own cars, do my own home repairs, do my own laundry and cook full meals for my family in about 20 minutes when my wife is sick or too busy with school work, and i'm a man.
so no, people aren't bad parents just because they serve pre-prepared food.
this is tbe sauce your great grandmother made.
i have a five-ingredient microwave recipe for scratch macaroni and cheese (admittedly not health food, but w/more protein & calcium than easy mac) that takes 10 minutes from fridge & pantry to table.
by the way, i dont own a microwave  either, but that is personal choice, and i dont condemn those who rely on them.
de november 30, 2011 at 10:23 am | lenny and lazy people like you should remember wearing rubber when making love.
amen!november 30, 2011 at 2:54 pm | jeez.
all of that to say, yep.
does it make me a bad parent because i don't go and but more expensive fillets of fish, hand-bread them, and fry them myself?
we sacrifice by using our non-working time to help them with schoolwork, play with them, take them to activities, listen to them unload at the end of the day, or guide them in learning how to help with household chores (including cooking).
november 30, 2011 at 2:27  pm | sherie what makes u think that a stay-at-home-mom has it easy?
however, if i hadn't practiced in the kitchen i would not be as proficient as i am now.
i get it that it's "not  hard" to make sauce from scratch, but when i leave the house at 7:30 am,  return no earlier than 6, and have tiny children to contend with when i do, let  me know if it's a sin i didn't stay up till midnight to make it, and chose to  try to interact and play with my kids instead.
so i only had to spend maybe an hour in the kitchen on the day itself.
every time a commenter writes something like you just did, it takes away any  possible credibility that you may have had before someone reads it... november 30, 2011 at 9:47 am | cnn info@a concerned parent
anyway, i think  a good baked mom style mac and cheese recipe is always simple and come on, who  doesn't like cheese?
i also cannot believe people feed their children food that was cooked in an oven!
with education comes a responsibility to do better by our children.
a lot of things fall somewhere in between...
tips for busy parents: cook meals on the weekend and  freeze them.
november 29, 2011 at 2:37 pm | i think it's fine to purchase pre packaged foods, but it is cheaper to buy and package yourself.
november 30, 2011 at 2:32 pm | ... sorry, but if you feed your children mcdonald's more than occasionally and  give them tv dinners (healthy choice, lean cuisine, etc.)
but if u feed them tv dinners more often than u cook u really need to ask urself if ur putting ur own convenience before ur child cuz that would make u a bad parent cuz its obvious u cant trust the government to know whats good for ur child.
it's the monoculture that's  the problem.
if you can't tell – i am being sarcastic.
face it, you just have bad eating habits.
december 8, 2011 at 7:16 am | i love u guys.
but my spelling and grammar isn't the  point, can't you at least see that much?
if you look at the french, the italians, the greeks they all spend significantly more money and time shopping, preparing and eating their food.
november 30, 2011 at 4:01 pm | just here ...
and pretty much anything (even typically unhealthy stuff like hamburgers, pizza, mac & cheese, fried chicken, etc.) is better for you when cooked at home rather than bought in box-shaped chain "restaurant."
there are millions of tired working mothers who  make it a priority to feed themselves and their families well.
november 29, 2011 at 4:48 pm | there are a lot of food purists who would consider pre-made sauce a travesty.
the food is full of nitrates and sodium; i've read the labels.
maybe a can of tuna and some olives to the spaghetti.
ovens heat your food, which causes the molecules to accelerate and break down!
i am a good parent because i teach my son to do the best we can, and more importantly, that i value time spent with him, that i am available to help him with homework or listen about his day, that he can participate in activities even though i have to work a lot, etc.
my 5 year old actually wants to be a chef when he grows up.
i thank  you, commenters!
who proofreads this stuff?
i agree ~ our italian family never puts straight sugar into the sauce.
november 29, 2011 at 9:19 pm | do not do your best at spelling, though.
here is a fantastic roast chicken recipe that is hard to screw up.
if you're forced to feed a family on a very tight budget, high caloric content paired with low price is this "bang".
or, better still, making the most of that time so  that you all don't miss the chance to be together, for learning/practicing  fundamental math skills while measuring and combining ingredients, for  introducing them to other cultures and traditions, helping them to learn how to  take care of themselves and others by crafting delicious and nutritious meals,  and perhaps, most importantly, letting them learn from your example how to  gracefully – even humorously! – accept a situation when it doesn't  turn out as you have hoped.
december 1,  2011 at 10:32 am | dee i don't care how busy you are, there is no excuse for serving kids  processed foods.
do not judge those with kids until you have your own.november 29, 2011 at 11:56 pm | you know, cella, when i 'popped out a few', i was married and in a position where i could stay home to raise my kids.
honestly people, from the begining of time every parent thinks they are right and every parent after them will think their way is better.
i'll give you what you all so obviously need: you're doing fine.
that doesn't make those things safe or healthy in modern times.
but it's important to eat mostly what is actually good for you, and to limit the stuff that's not.
many children are raised in single-parent  households, and in order to keep a roof over their head, clothes on their back  and food in their belly, parents have to work long hours that often don't allow  for entirely homemade meals.
every time a commenter writes something like you just did, it takes away any possible credibility that you may have had before someone reads it...november 30, 2011 at 9:47 am | regardless of the time zone from which you are posting, cnn posts the time on all comments in eastern standard (or daylight time.
but i think i'll stop just short of conceding that parents who lack the iron will you have expressed here are somehow damaging their children or the home by bringing home kid cuisine frozen meals.
how  about that 19 year old dad who shook his child to death?
further, heck, a jar of store-bought spaghetti sauce just might pop open at my house on any given week.
sad as well, that you are bribing them with tv, rather than demonstrating  patience for them to model.
you should be in to this about a half of an hour.
i usually serve this with a bag of salad and low fat ranch.
for instance, we might choose to do frozen chicken nuggets one night with my 2  year old.
but these are my  choices.
we stay away from fast food  (except on occasion, like last night) and boxed meals because they are loaded  with sodium and other horrible preservatives, hydrogenated oils, etc.
the closer to natural it is, the healthier it is (generally), but it's ok to substitute some canned/frozen/etc. ingredients.
november 29, 2011 at 12:55 pm | that's pretty rude.
and then you put it in a microwave and bombard it with long wave length radiation that heats the food by accelerating and breaking up the particles in it.
you work with what you have to work with.
there's a lot of anxious parents that need to snark about how  other people eat dinner just so they can feel better about themselves tonight,  aren't there!
please watch penn and teller's bull$hit show on organic foods–  they debunk the nonsense.
if i may ask, can all of you adults please stop bickering?
prime example is this recipe from the cookbook: love more feed  less (less prepackaged and previously prepared): oodles of noodles and zuckles (zucchini pasta)
it's a bit worrying, frankly.
being reactive doesn't mean you are lazy or a bad parent, but that you need to be flexible, and have the best intention in mind for the long run.
and i worked very  busy jobs in higher education.
she was defending pre-packaged  foods, which is really very different.
you have a choice, watch your kid suffer  or do the right thing.
i go for, so the pizza in the oven, good thing for  many college students.
i made tons of hearty soups to fill them up – but i  put up the soups the night before, after the kids were in bad.
not to mention the mmmgoodness of eating healthful  foods that were prepared by your own hands.
november 30, 2011 at 4:04  pm | jorge danielle, that's why this country is doing as poorly as it is, this is the  talk-the-talk generation, infested with critical, snipy, functionally unfit  people who are bound to electronic gadgets, can't do a week's worth of  productive manual labor to save their lives and become brittle and hostile when  they are bested in the workplace by little brown people who can hardly speak a  word of english.
on a more serious note, kudos to you.
i dare you go go to disney for the day then go back to the hotel to cook an organic, homemade meal mid-day.
some of us are just trying to  get by the best we can!
10 minutes, tops, and that includes washing the pan. come to think of it, i may do that tonight.
and you'll have lunch and dinner for four  for several days, and you can make a couple gallons of soup from the carcass  that can also be frozen.
november 30, 2011 at 7:26 pm | likeit december 1, 2011 at 10:28 am | dee november 30, 2011 at 10:20 pm | richard
especially when  the point of the article (at least to me) is to each their own.
but i simply am incapable of coming up with a well-planned, healthy meal on a daily basis without a huge amount of thought and effort.
november 29, 2011 at 3:43 pm | don't forget frozen veggies if you're in a hurry.
for  example, i have a great rice cooker, and cook 10 cups of brown rice at one time  that can then be refrigerated and served over a week.
wiliam demuth you sir, are my hero.
pick up a "quick and easy" cookbook.
november 29, 2011 at 4:21 pm |
and you were a stay at home mom, correct?november 30, 2011 at 2:27 pm | what makes u think that a stay-at-home-mom has it easy?
add miso, mushrooms, a hard boiled egg, good to go, also, dashi isn't hard to make at all).
even the government 'cheese food' is dank!november 30, 2011 at 12:29 pm | thank you katie!
(i don't like other canned vegetables, but i guess that's personal taste.)november 29, 2011 at 3:32 pm | corn is not a vegetable; it's a grain.
on the other hand i am just wondering whether or not a fellow blogger like you wish to do a little hyperlink trade with me, as i'm always looking for quality blogs like yours, to additional expand my community of friends.
could that be the answer for some people?
socialization is everywhere you don't have to get it in a public school.
november 30, 2011 at 12:09 pm | pdxmum sorry ..., but i only take tips for busy parents from other busy parents.
it is patently  redundant.
i totally agree with her.
november 30, 2011 at 11:06 am | your cookbook is great.
you haven't done anything wrong.
something most people don't bother to put  in place before popping out a few.
there are some snobby people on this forum.
i for one, have wanted to start my own  garden for the past two years, but i dont have the money for it, or the time to  prepare the small amount of yard i have.
http://boingboing.net/2009/02/09/food-ingredients-wit.html go chemist!november 30, 2011 at 9:09 am | thank you.
no, it makes me someone who uses their time logically while still trying to get wholesome food into my kid.
a cup of rice, quinoa, beans or whatever is $2.
some of us not only don't have much time (like those of us who are full-time working single moms), and would prefer to spend it interacting with our children rather than pushing them away so we can get a home-cooked meal on the table in the half-hour available between getting home from work and the store and starting the bedtime routine....
go grocery shopping with your parents.
fry it until the liquid is almost gone.
the woman who drowned all 5 of her kids in a bathtub, or the one  who drove her car off the side of a bridge into a river or better yet, the mom  who microwaved her newborn.
i probably only cook two or three times in an entire month.
they help count and  measure.
november 30, 2011  at 1:26 pm | sixdegrees
for those of you who are good, quick home cooks who happen to be criticizing the author, perhaps you could post a recipe or two of your own so that others can benefit?
ragu is a buck and a half.
as a matter of fact, my husband and i take pains to cook nice  meals on weekends and have become quite the weekend foodies.
depending on the hours of my classes, i can plan meals for my family, but there is no way in hell i would point my finger at these so called bad parents for making one night a little less hectic than usual for popping in a pizza or hopping through the drive through.
november 30, 2011 at 2:28 pm | richard not likely what had they eaten the rest of the day?
thanks for sharing!november 29, 2011 at 5:18 pm | we created our artificial preservative free, 10 grain pizza as part of the solution.
plus, there's the added benefit of cooking new meals–you build up an arsenal of spices and seasonings!
frozen chicken fingers, pre-prepared meatloaf, frozen vegetables that are soggy and gross when served...
november 30, 2011 at 3:59 pm | i've written about this topic before after hearing a food blogger say that the food network was "ruining food in america" because of shows like semi-homemade.
november 30, 2011 at 6:13 pm | pockaleelee i'm a single father (full-time) of a ten year old son.
november 30, 2011 at 3:58 pm | rachel not all vegans are delusional.
i  want the time we have to be spent playing board games, talking, joking, going  for a walk, whatever.
as a full time working mother, i take serious umbrage at the 'i'm too busy" attitude that excuse-makers give.
people shouldn't eat out or eat pre-packaged, overly processed foods all the time.
honestly, i hate to cook and do not enjoy it one bit.
people you don't get fat from eating any particular food, it the  entire diet that must be assessed.
you want to love your kids?
november 29, 2011 at 3:15 pm | i think that learning to prepare healthy, home-cooked meals is an essential.
my wife and i both work full days and come home to a special needs child (muscular dystrophy) and triplet girls that are 2 1/2 years old.
yeah, not great, but every meal has a serving of vegetables, every day  has a serving of fruit, and i use whole grains when possible.
however, for those who don't always have the time to cook something at home, i think it's reasonable to allow room for eating out, or eating a 5-minute frozen dinner once in a while.
november 30, 2011  at 3:41 pm | bob's your uncle
if you are unwilling to prepare proper meals for your children, you should not have them.
or invest in a crockpot!november 30, 2011 at 10:54 am | gimme a call when you are juggling 2 or 3 kids.
crunch, hungry kids that need to be fed fast in 5 minutes on the way to soccer, or not having time to prep something completely from scratch.
november 29, 2011 at 2:39 pm | i get all my chickens, cows, veggies and fruits from farmville :)
and do not even get me started on your manners.
further, heck, a jar of store-bought spaghetti sauce  just might pop open at my house on any given week.
december 1, 2011 at 8:29 am | bluebalz december 1, 2011 at 8:36 am | snoflinga ohhhh boy.
my mom got me one of your cookbooks for christmas a couple of years ago, and i love it.
if you like, you can also portion out the bird and  freeze individual servings so you don't have to eat turkey day in and day out  for days on end.
november 30, 2011 at 12:10 pm | those cultures also have shorter work days than most americans, have more sick/family leave time than most americans, and come from strongly family oriented cultures where there are many generations of the same family living in the same house.
don't give them tv, video  games, cellphones, etc.
november 30, 2011 at 5:09 pm | laurie neyman you don't even count on this forum.
pre-cut your veggies at 3am since you're awake anyway, and you won't need to be using flimsy frozen veggies, which also cost double the price.
if it's easier to grab a handful of pre-shredded lettuce for a salad and it means the difference between having a salad and not having one at all, grab that handful and enjoy it.
december 1, 2011 at 8:13 am | "...
let it simmer another half of an hour.
but my spelling and grammar isn't the point, can't you at least see that much?
and *gasp*, did you know you can decide whether or not to have them?!
or you could open a jar of ragu and add it to the cooked pasta (yes, i do use whole wheat mixed with the whole grain so it doesn't taste like cardboard)...no hour there, much cheaper than all those ingredients you listed and more time at the dinner table to spend with the family.
there are plenty of homemade recipes full of ingredients that  "can kill you," and there are plenty of minimally-processed or even  fully-prepared meals that are wholesome, balanced, low in sodium, preservative  free, etc.
it's not rocket science.
november 29, 2011 at 11:45 am | the title should read 'serving pre-prepared food doesn't mean your a bad parent but rather that the health of yourself and your kids is not high on your priority list.
not one parent in here is saying that feeding your kids processed foods for every meal is a good thing, what the argument is is that sometimes, not all the time, it's nice to have a quick and easy fix.
as a working mom, i am fortunate to be able to have a flexible schedule and have at least 5 dinners a week made from "scratch" – not even pre-cut/frozen veggies.
the media should stop trying to sell these types of ideas and move more towards promoting real food.
as i return to work full-time at cnn.com, i take this stand for my mother, a single parent just a few decades ago.
but we still ate fresh food six days a week on a pretty tight budget.
we are all doing the best we can to raise healthy, happy, well-rounded kids and it is the big picture that matters.
the media should stop trying to sell these types of  ideas and move more towards promoting real food.
november 30, 2011 at 3:51 pm | not pre-packaged-pre-prepared, please excuse me.
make it a learning experience and they will appreciate the process more (the dead family dinner).november 29, 2011 at 3:12 pm |
you can buy  all those things fresh, give them a nice merinade, throw em in the pan and  you're ready to go in less than 20 minutes.
sad as well, that you are bribing them with tv, rather than demonstrating patience for them to model.
grow our own food, cook with the food we grow.
it works for lots of families.
also, sure pre-prepared food is easy, yet homemade food is not difficult at  all, even novice cooks can learn to cook for their families while making  memories of time together in the kitchen and fragrant flavors to last for a  lifetime.
when i cook, i try to go easy on myself, choosing recipes that are hard to screw up and can be turned into something else the next day.
i am not going to lie i go out and eat fast food alot and thats because it is 'fast' food.
i'll give you what you all so obviously need:  you're doing fine.
because we can't slow the f#@& down!
the harelip dog is back!
if you walk around a super-market almost 90% of everything  in it can be sourced back to corn and soy beans.
yeah, you're a great parent.
some of us look at all those ingredients and just can't come up with what to do with them.
anyway, i think a good baked mom style mac and cheese recipe is always simple and come on, who doesn't like cheese?
i show people how  to add healthy and homemade touches to the better packaged foods.
we also make delicious and nutritious soups from canned beans, canned tomatoes, low sodium "stock in a box," and a fewfresh ingredients–and lots of stuff (healthy chilli, red beans & rice, etc.) can be frozen.
we had a fairly successful home business.
i buy things that are quick, easy, and good because time is short around my home.
so i only had to  spend maybe an hour in the kitchen on the day itself.
but quite frankly it is a cop out to say i am too busy to cook healthy meals.
it is better to know that moderation is key, most of the time i  will try not to eat as much as i can but sometimes its just too hard.
when i was little, i would eat out the marshmallows, wait...my mother must be a horrible parent for letting me have lucky charms...
pre packaged meals once or twice a night is no crime-believe me stay-at-home-moms do it too.
november 29, 2011 at 8:25 pm | a concerned citizen
sometimes, in all of that, a home-cooked meal made of fresh ingredients falls by the wayside.
the real answer to this  issue is for food companies to make, and stores to sell, truly healthy  pre-packaged meals for people like me.
and stop acting like your life  is so much more hectic then the rest of ours, its not, you just choose to make  it that way with your attitudes!!
you should be ashamed of yourselves!
you can buy all those things fresh, give them a nice merinade, throw em in the pan and you're ready to go in less than 20 minutes.
november 30, 2011 at 3:45 pm | kristen ive been a vegetarian for 5 years and both my husband
let those who are without  sin cast the first stone.
admit it – roasting a chicken, while not rocket science, is pretty daunting for someone who needs dinner on the table five minutes ago.
there is a significant health-wealth gradient in our country today, and  food plays largely into this picture.
my husband and i have two kids, and we both are enrolled in college full time and my husband also works a full time job on top of that.
the recognition that health, value, convenience and taste can live together.
but still there is nothing can be compared and better than food cooked by a wife or mother...
so judge not  during the weekday marathons, because not everyone is blessed with the close  commute or extra time to do everything perfectly.
watch some youtbe videos, take a class, get some cookbooks out of the library.
easy, as we got older we were assigned dinner duty.
november 29, 2011 at 2:09 pm | or more likely protected their children from bullies like you...kudos to anyone who prioritizes their child's education rather than pushing them out the door to fight for a teacher's attention with 30+ other kids.
i also think it's important to take from the original article the idea  that people are doing the best they can.
third, we need to teach our children tolerance for other ways of doing things and for other opinions, flexibility in the way we live, and moderation in all things.
as a matter of fact, my husband and i take pains to cook nice meals on weekends and have become quite the weekend foodies.
i'm truly worried for the future.
anything that can make life easier i go for, so the pizza in the oven, good thing for many college students.
i've gotten great at cooking burgers on the grill, sauteing or baking chicken (boneless or whole), searing steaks, etc.
my daughter loves to help me water and pick the veggies in the summer and is really interested in cooking.
breakfast is usually a yogurt i grab from home and a granola bar from the box at my desk.
honestly people, from the begining of  time every parent thinks they are right and every parent after them will think  their way is better.
november 30, 2011 at 6:54 am | eating for the americans is a way to fill your stomachs.
we are not eating enough diverse, whole foods.
november 30, 2011 at 8:29 am | there is no such word as "pre-prepared".
second of all, just because a parent can't, for whatever reason, cook actual meals daily, that doesn't mean in the slightest that they are bad parents–it means that aspect of parenting is a skill needing improvement.
i have a high needs ailing parent to care for.
the ingredients contained within are  typically related to corn and soy, the two industrialized foods our government  subsidizes farmers to grow and they are not grown in bio-dynamic soils which  means they lack the level of nutrients found in organic fruits and vegetables  grown in nutrient rich soils.
most people just wanna complain, but i did get 1 or 2 ideas and for that i thank you, commenters!november 30, 2011 at 6:55 am | our weekday dinners usually consist of one frozen skillet meal (frozen veggies, noodles, chicken, and some random sauce), on day of veggie burgers/fake chicken patty sandwich with fruit and baby carrots, one day of spaghetti with frozen meatballs or precooked chicken and mixed veggies, one day of veggie pizza and cut fruit, and one day of a random frozen meal with veggies.
add beans and heat through.
buying chef boyardee or tv  dinners is.
i have a shelf full of cookbooks, i learned to cook as a child, i can make wonderful meals if i really put my mind to it...
everything in a diet works  together.
november 30, 2011 at 2:42 pm | i feed my children dry toast and water for dinner.
they eat food filled with sodium who holds the water in your body.
november 30, 2011 at 2:28 pm | jorge no excuse, popping stripped chicken breasts and bag veggies (frozen) with  mushroom sauce and bacon bits in the oven takes as long as a pizza, and is ten  times as good for you and your family (more protein, more vitamins, more  minerals, more flavor) and since when does it take that much time to eat  strawberries with sugar-free whipped frosting or pineapple?
and i will chuck it if it contains things like hydrogenated oils.
i certainly lay no blame on our parents' generation.
a rotisserie chicken in most grocery stores will run you about $7.
november 30, 2011 at 5:02 pm | you're wrong if you think any of the pre-packaged foods at a grocery store are a "healthy" option.
november 30, 2011 at 6:18 pm | heather i agree.
someone finally explaining this aspect of the "hard" word bit for everyone.
i can't even get a #4 value meal for under five bucks.
make a peanut butter sandwich on whole grain bread before you zap  on of those frozen poison bricks november 30, 2011 at 11:01 am | katie kristen, you want to 'love your kids?'
november 30, 2011 at 1:24 am | please repost this- 1 big can of diced tomatos 1 big can of plain tomato sauce put them in a large saucepan on simmer add some basil, onion powder, 3 times as much marjoram (required, this why it does taste like tomato sauce) and a hand full of sugar (there is sugar in spagetti sauce) -stir it and put the lid on put some olive oil in a frying pan, add minced garlic jar, diced white onion, mushrooms.
as a working mom, i also keep ingredients for go-to quick meals on hand in case planned dinners fall through for some reason or time runs short.
this issue has nothing to do with one parent feeling superior or better  than another.
november 29, 2011 at 5:59 pm | it doesn't mean you are a bad parent, it means you are a terrible parent that doesn't care about the nutrition or upbringing of your child.
boo f-ing hoo, you made the decision to have children, deal with it.
and yes, sometimes i turn on the tv so that i can finish making dinner, but more often than not, i have little hands to help me prepare it.
working two jobs just to make your child even has food to eat and making sure  they have everything else they need.
just make sure the internal temperature of the bird reaches 165°f at the thickest part, without the thermometer touching the bone.
there are recent studies that show that many rural areas, particularly in  the south, have poorer nutrition because there are fewer transportation  options, smaller stores with much worse selection of healthy and fresh foods,  and yet still the preponderance of fast foods and convenience stores.
"it’s not only cooking time, but shopping for food," says my mom.
he's just lazy and pathetic ...
the term bad parent  shouldn't partain to the way parents feed their kids.
you know what a  bad parent is?
parenting sometimes involves an active dialogue with what is best for your kid(s) at that moment.
november 30, 2011 at 2:56 pm | i was with you until you said "poison bricks".
and people want to feed their children food that was cooked in an oven?!?
november 30, 2011 at 4:18 pm | what part of balance don't you get?
i try my best to cook as from scratch as possible, but it that shortcut means 10 or 15 extra minutes of quality time, i'm all for it!november 29, 2011 at 7:36 pm | not everyone can cook thats true, and with the better choices available for preprepared "fresh" foods a quick healthy meal can be made in very little time.
have them get ingredients from the fridge or spice rack.
i did more research and we started to eat healthier - whole foods (even though neither my husband nor i have a weight problem, cutting back on sodium and the like is good for anyone!).
i believe that every parent makes the best choices that they can in that moment with the information and time that they have at hand.
especially when i started using new ingreients and herbs i learned abotu in teh cookbooks.
your child will remember the time you  took to look her in the eye and talk about her day at school more than she'll  remember the fact that you started the chicken recipe from scratch.
november 30, 2011 at 1:48 pm | mouse ...and you were a stay at home mom, correct?
that's what i see a lot of today.
we were to provide a healthy meal (veggie, meat, starch etc.) that we either could cook or wanted to try.
most will not understand this but try having some kids with food allergies and  being forced to feed them real food.
that's the sad slope america is going, excuses for everything!
these are the parents with fat kids who play video games and have a high risk for diabetes.
december 1, 2011 at 10:32 am | i don't care how busy you are, there is no excuse for serving kids processed foods.
it's not hard, but  it requires space, money, and time.
she is one of those people who learned to cook very early on and often tells me about how every saturday they'd make pies or cookies.
but what happens when you start isolating some of the compounds in the egg?
my step-dad was a jerk about 70% of the time, but i still have fond memories of standing on a chair every afternoon to help with making salads from the age of 5 or 6, and we had plenty of time to chat.
november 30, 2011 at  7:10 am | huh i originally pulled this up to print off some quick meal ideas...
bagged salad isn't any different than buying a head of lettuce and cutting it yourself.
there's no such thing as frozen or pre-prepared foods that are genuinely as healthy as fresh food.
november 29, 2011 at 4:28 pm | i myself am pregnant with compromise.
i love to cook, but weeknights are easy-cooking nights.
there are millions of tired working mothers who make it a priority to feed themselves and their families well.
november 30, 2011 at 2:37 pm | gotta love the delusional vegans!november 30, 2011 at 3:58 pm | not all vegans are delusional.
november 29, 2011 at 6:11 pm | i completely agree with this article.
november 30, 2011 at 12:33 am | danielle i am 17, but i think i'm rational enough to have some say here...
con pollo (chicken and rice) with platanos (fried plantains).
please live a little more life before you make blanket statements like that.
the people living there, though, are typically either a lot more unhealthy than their urban counterparts, or they're prematurely dead.
yes, it's sad that high sodium ramen costs merely cents while salad fixings and  lean meat cost significantly more, but such is the current state of affairs.
i learn from him how to cook  pasta sauce, and believe me you do not need more than a small, tiny pinch of  sugar.
november  30, 2011 at 2:30 pm | themuffinlady richard, please acknowledge that 1 in every 5 kids in this country  currently go to bed hungry–hence your comment was way out of line.
that was a radical notion in the 1940s and 1950s, that my mother should have an outside adult life.
my other savior is the crock pot.
dinners can be a little harder to be creative, but again,  there's no reason to be buying frozen processed chicken and beef.
i'm not slaughtering my own beef in the backyard, i am however saying that it doesn't take excessive time or money to regularly feed your family a healthy, non-packaged or prepared meal.
the time involved is almost entirely oven and  unattended stovetop time – actual kitchen work for the above is probably  about half an hour, tops.
november 30, 2011 at 6:42 am | on occasion, i make the $1 8-9 oz frozen meals (banquet, michaelina's, marie callendar's chicken pot pie bought in 8 packs at costco) and they're more healthy than typical alternatives like a ham and cheese sandwich with potato chips.
and who's wrong, let's all  just spend some time considering the actual nutritional content of the food we  eat.
november 29, 2011 at 5:11 pm | i can understand where for people who aren't "chef types" find cooking entire meals from scratch intimidating and time consuming, and cooking larger batches at one time is by far a great way to plan ahead, especially if you know you have a busy few days coming up!
i know how to read and i use that valuable skill on  nutritional labels, as anyone could.
having a baby leads to changing one's priorities.
now, sandra lee freaks me out, and not in a good way, but  really, how quickly they forget.
mark!mark!mark!mark!mark! november 30, 2011 at 3:47 pm | eliza clark some of us do sacrifice for our kids by working umpteen hours a week just  to keep a roof over their heads, the heating bills paid, and some clothes on  their backs.
he has no physical limitations to keep him from the learning basic cooking skills.
november 30, 2011 at 2:37 pm | shawn gotta love the delusional vegans!
it just takes a bit more planning and organization.
frozen veggies are cheap and nutritious, too.
yes... you are a bad parent if you do not cook/bake for your children from  scratch.
i somehow manage to juggle a full 60+ hour work week, college classes, flight classes, skit trips, fishing trips ect ect and still manage to come home and cook almost every meal.
november 30, 2011 at 1:24 am | heather 1 big can of diced tomatos 1 big can of plain  tomato sauce put them in a large saucepan on simmer add some basil,  onion powder, 3 times as much marjoram (required, this why it does taste like  tomato sauce) and a hand full of sugar (there is sugar in spagetti sauce) -stir
i am fortunate enough now to have time to cook nice meals and relax after work but i've been in that same boat.
so for about $3.50 a serving, we've all eaten healthy from a meal that took me 30 minutes to prepare.
november 30, 2011 at  11:06 am | elfoodito your cookbook is great.
how about the parents that duct taped their 3 year  old, videotaped it, and then laughed when they yanked it off her skin.
no, i will feed my family real food, from real sources.
not spending every evening cooking a fabulous organic dinner and then hand washing pots and pans.
they start to get hard to pronounce.
and *gasp*, did you know you can decide whether or not to have  them?!
december 1, 2011 at 8:42 am | lazy and slow.
november 29,  2011 at 8:45 pm | ™©jbjing!eś®™@hamsta sorry, but if what your parents are feeding you is related to your spelling  and grammar, then it is one big fail.
and college is hectic, it makes you do things you sure aren't proud of, food wise that is.
stop making excuses and man and woman up!november 29, 2011 at 1:24 pm | i love this response!!
when did parents stop  sacrificing for their children?
so i knew that there were no pesticides, etc.
(i often place the bird on the wrong side, and it doesn't matter).
november 30, 2011 at 3:53 pm | very well put, a big part of the puzzle that a lot of people overlook!!november 30, 2011 at 5:38 pm | go to rural places in any country.
try doing it 7 nights a week with kids running around that require supervision and there may be the occasional shortcut needed.
personally, i look at the ingredient labels on everything.
that is just laziness.
what are you on?november 30, 2011 at 9:25 am | how about a can of ragu, $1.50, a box of spaghetti, $1.00, a can of tuna, $0.69, can of olives, $1.69, a prepared loaf of garlic bread, $1.99.
anyway, great article that you just written here, i find the content material to be very informational, in a way.
spread olive oil on the bottom of a roasting pan with a rack.
serving pre-prepared food isn't that bad as long as it's balanced with something fresh, like a salad or fruit for dessert.
don't pull the  tired, working mother card.
november 29, 2011 at 2:28 pm | there are other stores to shop from besides whole paycheck, er, i mean whole foods.
but to call a parent terrible because they do not buy into the hype/paranoia that a scientific name means you are eating something bad is very rude and ignorant on your part.
i encourage my kids to help me, and sit at the counter in the kitchen.
november 29, 2011 at  9:19 pm | the frugal hostess do not do your best at spelling, though.
i use the orange puree in lots of quick foods to give my daughter vegetables or fruits.
sometimes parents just don't have the time or don't know have the skills to whip up a homemade meal.
our crock pot gets a lot of use making healthy stews and soups, and we can easily eat for days just from one batch.
put in baking dish, add brown rice (enough for 4 servings) (and water and butter according to box).
we do the best  we can with some home cooked meals and the healthiest prepared stuff we can  find in the minimal amount of time we have to go grocery shopping.
los of moms are at home because  they chose to do so and not because they weren't smart enough to get a  job.
until someone walks in another person's shoes, they  are in no place to put judgement on them.
frozen vegetables are a better alternative to canned and actually cheaper!
additionally, many cities have zoning regulations that result in poor areas filled with fast-food restaurants but no supermarkets.
anything  that can make life easier
there's only 24 hours in a day, and you choose not to feed your kids healthy food because you'd rather be playing bored games?november 30, 2011 at 9:18 am | please learn to write and spell like an adult before you decide to post.
i don't even want to write this comment anymore honestly its disgusting to read the nit picky crap people bicker about.
spend more time talking with your kids, playing sports with your kids and cooking.
and i find cooking to be a blast!november 29, 2011 at 3:15 pm | most excellent!
cook it till the meat is done and add it all to the sauce.
(i buy the cheese and onions already shredded and chopped.
november 30, 2011 at 10:32 am | @william demuth why is it that when i try to reply to to a particular poster it puts it at  the top instead of the troll i meant it toward?
the public does not generally care about isolated compounds generally and to giving a common name to every one of these compounds would be completely and utterly ridiculous due to sheer amount there are.
don't know how to cook?
this is our choice.november 30, 2011 at 7:10 am | i originally pulled this up to print off some quick meal ideas...
regardless of the time zone from which you are posting, cnn posts the time  on all comments in eastern standard (or daylight time.
i also live in a very small town where ingredients are not always  available and the store actually closes in the evening.
december 1, 2011 at 7:55 am | honestly – we had 5 kids in 10 years.
rather than trying to decide who's right
the problem is that many people eat frozen or pre-packaged foods that are heavily processed and contain ingredients that aren't really supposed to go in our bodies.
my parents lived their lives very much the way i do now, with both of then working full time, one in school too, all well running our family orchard and raising 3 kids, it probably worked so well because they planned ahead and made us part of their lives and activities, and a large part of that was helping to cook!!
just take a look at these big scary words in the ingredient list: ergocalciferol (vitamin d) d-alpha tocopheryl acetate (vitamin e) niacinamide (vitamin b3) pyridoxine hcl (vitamin b6) cyanocobalamin (vitamin b12) aminoate complex (magnesium, zinc, copper, manganese, potassium) bitartrate (choline)
i simply don't have the time or money to spend on all those ingredients, then cook the sauce from scratch.
everyone who is blasting the author for using prepared foods – how many ever used jarred baby food?
it's hard work, and it's a choice.
cook it till the meat  is done and add it all to the sauce.
that is by far cheaper than your organic food, and feeds my family of 4 dinner, and lunch the next day..
i simply don't have the time or money to spend  on all those ingredients, then cook the sauce from scratch.
also, sure pre-prepared food is easy, yet homemade food is not difficult at all, even novice cooks can learn to cook for their families while making memories of time together in the kitchen and fragrant flavors to last for a lifetime.
i'm in my mid twenties, and pack a lunch every single day for myself and my boyfriend.
relying on fast food and  prepackaged meals is a cop out.
is better for you when cooked at home rather than bought in box-shaped chain  "restaurant."
i know how to read and i use that valuable skill on nutritional labels, as anyone could.
1 can tomato soup 1 can chili with beans 1 can diced tomato with green chili 1 can corn; drained 1 can peas and carrots; drained –simmer all ingredients together for 20-30 minutes.
but we need to be tolerant that many parents do the best they can, and these pre-prepared foods sometimes are the best alternative.
then at  dinner time – presto!
for years my family ate processed foods and suffered physically because of it.
to offset the assumed additional sodiums and whatnot from using that convenience, i'll serve with steamed fresh vegetables, and maybe a rice or noodle (not a packaged, sauced variety).
you have to plan ahead and buy ahead and practice cooking, you will get better over time.
hmm i missed food cooked by my mother :)
through trial and error i can cook decent meals.
she was fit and happy and would ask me to drive her to have fun on weekends, she also taught me the value of learning to cook, take care of myself and be organized, not to waste time and to be handy with many things, she would ask the neighborhood shop owners (mecanics, carpenters, masons) to take me in during the summer and to let me learn.
i can tell you with certainty that she never served spaghetti when i ever was around.
parents need to spend time online looking up "quick 5 item meals".
we know more about healthy living and eating these days than they did a few decades ago.
think about it, you get food like this because you can't be bothered to prepare a real meal.
and myself, now that i think of it.
my wife and i cook nearly all of our food.
my 2.5 year old also loves to "help" me (usually i measure ingredients and let her dump them in the bowl), so cooking time =
november 29, 2011 at 5:43 pm | it's too bad cuz i was fortunate enough to enjoy several semesters of home ec in school where i got to cook some really tasty things in jr high and high school.
garlic salt and pepper
you're blasting people for using prepared foods and yet you indicate that your family ate them for years and suffered for it.
the speedy sneaky chef: quick, healthy fixes for your favorite packaged foods offers 85 healthy meals in a hurry!
now me and my brother love to cook though my sister not so much.
so yes – i rely a  certain amount of the time on prepared meals and every now and then (gasp!) on  pizza from the convenience store (we have no mcd s here).
i honestly don't have most of those ingredients you listed, and spices run $3 – $4 per jar.
and as they are both under the age of 3, getting them involved in the cooking right now is rather limited at best- perhaps not even wise when we're talking about hot stoves being instrumental!
anyone on this board that is criticizing people that you don't know based on some perception of what is right in your mind needs to walk a mile in other people's shoes to see what their situation allows for comparatively.
there was three of us.
everyone wants to their best for the kids, but not everyone is capable of cooking a fresh, homemade meal.
how impressive that you  manage to make dinner for yourself and your spouse like a grownup.
and i have at least four seperate learning disabilities, so i apologize for  anything i say incorrectly in my posts.
how impressive that you manage to make dinner for yourself and your spouse like a grownup.
amy's in the article, and that is a brand that focuses on organic, natural ingredients.
i am  now lucky enough that i have a job that allows me to cook nutritious meals most  nights of the week.
november  30, 2011 at 4:30 am | agi pinch of sugar – not a handful!!!
i will however, add onion and bell pepper to the sauce.
how about that?november 29, 2011 at 1:40 pm | amen....and if they don't like it, they can have a taste of the back of my hand!november 30, 2011 at 10:22 am | i'm wondering....
first, personal responsibility for what we do, and how we eat.
november 30, 2011 at 6:20 pm | cassie erica - it's so wonderful that your parents spent so much time cooking you  healthy food.
it's quite simply an issue of the deterioration of our food culture and the industrialization of food.
stop the judgment and hatefulness, and downright false statement.
buy a couple frozen ones and  chuck 'em in the freezer.
november 29, 2011 at 7:15 pm | once in a while if you are feeling drive thru-ish then fine.
a bag of frozen salmon filets from costco (salt, pepper, butter, broil for a few minutes–bam!); frozen vegetables (we use frozen veggies a lot); whole wheat spaghetti (pre-packaged sauce, but i try to get the low sugar kind); etc.
november 29, 2011 at 11:56 pm | just here you know, cella, when i 'popped out a few', i was married and in a position  where i could stay home to raise my kids.
during the school year, she sits at the table doing homework while i or my husband cook (sometimes both) when we get home.
i'm gonna go have a bowl of lucky charms for dinner now that the kids are  in bed.
sorry to break it to you miss sally homemaker, but most households have adults that do have jobs that not only contribute to their family's well-being but also to the economy, instead of producing children with no exposure to normal childhood social circumstances before the age of 18.
you work endlessly to pay for a new car, a huge television,  school loans for a degree that won't get you anywhere, some designer clothes  you don't need, and other piles of crap stacked so high you don't have room for  it in your 3800 sq ft suburbian house you can't afford.
i  have no spousal support to pick up tasks while i cook.
cover it in worcesrdrshire sauce.
my days start at 6am and don't end until well after midnight.
you can/will do what you want.
when did parents stop sacrificing for their children?
are you willing to come to my house while i am hard at work, or caring for my ailing parent, or helping my kid with homework, and not only prepare, but pay for the more expensive foods you speak of?
i think it's important to remember, however, that some are  not so fortunate.
november 30, 2011 at 5:17 pm | it's so amusing how people who can't handle scheduling their life with kids always want to b*,?!h to the people without kids how hard it is!
no, i don't go to mcdonald's on a daily basis, i use  it as a treat for my children, but don't bash parents who can't live in your  normal rockwell nightmare you call a life.
but you all like to  write today.
it's obviously a popular way to feed our families.
we love bagged salads and making our own pizza with fresh veggies.
way cheaper than the store-bought stuff.
add vegetables around the chicken in the last 30-45 minutes of cooking to make it a one-pot meal.
sorry you wasted so much time typing.
let's face it; our parents also smoked and drank when they were pregnant with us, and let us ride without seatbelts in the front seat.
i know how to eat healthy  sure
but i think it is important to find ways to put a meal together quickly while fulfilling dietary needs.
unless they are starving  which doesn't happen much in america these days or it shouldn't.
you seem to be good at it.
thanks for this article :)
i have two crock pots and numerous slow cooker recipes that don't require a million ingredients.
even though a lot of this prep was done well in advance – probably longer than the prepared food you buy in supermarkets has been sitting around – it was just fine, and no one would be able to tell the difference if it had been slavishly prepped just moments before cooking.
i'm a vegan, but i respect others views just as i expect them to respect mine.
made it myself, jarred it up or froze it.
i can tell  you with certainty that she never served spaghetti when i ever was around.
grow veggies in your yard or in pots during the summer.
maybe a can of tuna and some olives to the  spaghetti.
december 1, 2011 at 3:17 am | lucy reading nutritional labels, carefully looking over ingredient lists, etc,  and basing your menus on that information seems like the most important part of  all of this.
november 30, 2011 at 11:58 pm | mmmm lucky charms.
organic salad costs three or more.
there  is nothing wrong with the occasional grabbing something fast here and there and  by all means get your kids a pizza once in a while, but really, your kids are  that much that you can't cook dinner???
what are people thinking adding these kinds of ingredients to food?!?
my kids were amazed when they left home and found out that soup is  sold in cans.
you people  should be ashamed of yourselves for all the nitpicky behavior.
like this author mostly suggests, then you are a normal, concerned  person.
november 29, 2011 at 10:11 am | my parents either don't know how to cook, or don't have the time...
if you take an egg, you can break it down into egg yolk and egg white.
november 30, 2011 at 4:09 pm | eliza clark boy.... lots of judgement out there.
november 29, 2011 at 3:15 pm | poor man's chili 2 lbs regular or hot breakfast sausage (not maple) 4 great big cans of ranch style beans
actually, quite tasty and as a bonus, cheap and easy to prepare.
you have no  idea what a bad parent is.
here is an article on the subject of food names and perceptions.
keep up the good work.
november 29, 2011 at 3:54 pm | another idea for very quick, inexpensive weeknight meals – though this one takes a little planning: get a bag of individually wrapped, frozen fish filets (like tilapia or salmon).
some parents make the choice to fill their children up with warm food that they can afford... that doesn't make them a monster.
november 30, 2011 at 5:38 pm | jag go to rural places in any country.
you can't tell me that someone is a horrible parent because they get fast food for dinner or bust out the frozen food.
where there's a will, there's a way.
my wife and i both work to provide for our son and i still make him fresh meals at least twice a day (3 times on days that he isn't in daycare).
take a look a tv dinner and tell me how many of the ingrediants you can pronounce.
november 30, 2011 at 4:30 am | pinch of sugar – not a handful!!!
get a whole chicken and remove the giblets.
but i would also hazard a guess that others are simply already stretched past the point of breaking, and nothing short of completely restructuring their lives is going to make adding another time cost feasible.
december 1, 2011 at 3:17 am | reading nutritional labels, carefully looking over ingredient lists, etc, and basing your menus on that information seems like the most important part of all of this.
the first thing we moms should scratch off the list is our guilt – that we're not good enough or doing enough for our families.
my mom worked for a while in the evening and dad was in the military.
i somehow manage to juggle a  full 60+ hour work week, college classes, flight classes, skit trips, fishing  trips ect ect and still manage to come home and cook almost every meal.
november 30, 2011 at 3:53 pm  | angela
all i can say is that so far this kind of thinking has steered us well; none of my household is overweight or unhealthy.
it is patently redundant.
december 1, 2011 at 2:02  am | @william i feed my kid healthy meals every day and provide him with everything he  needs.
november 30, 2011 at 10:01 am | william demuth and lazy mooches like yourself give me the same sentiment.
nika could have been  posting from england which would have made it 10pm.
november 30, 2011 at 10:18 pm | sixdegrees since this is turning into a household hints blog, here's one: the freezer  is your friend.
there is nothing wrong with the occasional grabbing something fast here and there and by all means get your kids a pizza once in a while, but really, your kids are that much that you can't cook dinner???
sometimes parents just don't have the time or don't have the skills to whip up a homemade meal.
we also make delicious and  nutritious soups from canned beans, canned tomatoes, low sodium "stock in  a box," and a fewfresh ingredients–and lots of stuff (healthy  chilli, red beans & rice, etc.) can be frozen.
it's so amusing how people who can't handle scheduling their life with kids  always want to b*,?!h to the people without kids how hard it is!
i have learned to become efficient about shopping/planning/preparing.
you should be growing your own vegetables, slaughtering your own chickens and milling your own flour to bake breads.
i even learned how to cook fresh easy food in the process!november 29, 2011 at 10:55 am | involve the kids where you can and you'll have time to talk.
it's a cop out because we as a society need to  fundamentally realign the way we think about food and eating.
november 29, 2011 at 2:24 pm | sorry, that comment wasn't directed toward you, but toward observer.
make some quick soups, salads and sandwiches.
do you know that people have died from ingesting water?
should we american women take our cue from you and stereotype all european women as judgmental and ethnocentric based on just your repsonse?
spending time with daughter.
stir it, out the lid back on.
the only difference between you and me is that i do it without thinking  that i'm better than everyone else in the world who may not do everything the  way that i do it.
better than toast and dry water!november 30, 2011 at 7:26 pm | *like*december 1, 2011 at 10:28 am | better than fast food.
(i felt i needed to add some water because it was too thick).
i cam also easily say a lot of the people i know that "are too busy" to cook, are also the same ones that pick the kids up, hit mcd's on the way home and park their butts in fro t of the tv for hours on end, it's not so much lazy as it is that's the habit if people.
november 30, 2011 at 3:51 pm | danielle not pre-packaged-pre-prepared, please excuse me.
or you could open a jar of ragu and add it to the cooked pasta (yes, i  do use whole wheat mixed with the whole grain so it doesn't taste like  cardboard)...no hour there, much cheaper than all those ingredients you listed  and more time at the dinner table to spend with the family.
nika could have been posting from england which would have made it 10pm.
i understand it's about saving time, but a lot of people right now are looking for the cheaper way to cook dinner.