after 40 years in the art arena, betty has attained success in many areas of the arts.
road and bridge fund expenditures for 2005 are $1,060,130, a reduction of $90,406, or 7.9 percent, of 2004 budgeted expenditures of $1,150,536.
for a  married veteran the pension is $13,309.
first off we have crystal coughlin with safer living, llc.
check out new class at ed center
this is going to be an evening of fun for the whole family as the harlem ambassadors come to town to challenge our local team - the pagosa ringers - on the basketball court.
then przybylski pushed a steal ahead to shaffer for a deuce, jones polished off a three-point play for monte at the line and pagosa sophomore adam trujillo added a late free throw to make it 77-27.
if the 2003 application has not been  filed we can assist with this year, too.
hinduism - along with its descendent, buddhism - clearly teaches that life is nothing but suffering and that "salvation" is finally to become sufficiently enlightened to escape this repetitive suffering and cease to exist.
that spark might have been more correctly described as a conflagration.
if you are celebrating your birthday next month, be sure to come in the last friday of the month to celebrate.
walkup's scoring binge was based on eight-for-11 from the floor but  zero-for-four from the line.
that they might be feeling hopeless at what is implied by people who are afraid of meth or addicts.
monte's other offensive threat, the highly touted mary beth miles did get double figure scoring - 11 points - but had none in the middle two frames.
do they just want a free handout?
this is salvation by faith, through grace as revealed in the bible or the holy scripture.
when the folks living in animas city asked palmer to pay for land for railroad facilities, palmer thought the asking price too high.
- new shoes don't cut, blister or mangle your feet.
sandoval got the win with a 7-2 decision.
a 10-2 win over a dove  creek wrestler put nelson in a losing battle for third against a bayfield  opponent.
this is the first time we will have the full festival orchestra playing in pagosa, in a larger tent seating 350.
mv-duran, 0-1, 0-1, 0-0, 0; gutierrez, 1-2, 1-13, 1-1, 6; miles, 0-0, 4-5, 3-3, 11; schaefer, 0-0, 1-4, 0-0, 4; archuleta, 0-0, 1-1, 0-0, 2; wright, 0-0, 0-0, 1-1, 1; salvia, 1-1, 1-2, 0-0,5; hart, 0-0, 1-1, -0-, 2; mcauliffe, 0-0, 1-6, 1-2, 3; quintanilla, 0-0, 1-1, 2 derbin, 0-0, 0-1, 0-0, 0.
the rosary will be recited at 7:30 p.m. sunday in immaculate heart of mary  catholic church where funeral services will be held at 10 a.m. monday, feb. 7.
the second request is from the american red cross sw colorado chapter.
during this same  time, there was wagon traffic in and out of pagosa springs via elwood pass,  cumbres pass, and the old wagon road to durango, a route which approximated  current u.s. 160.
" both, but both probably are already aware of the possible mistake and are watching at an assigned meeting site for who they think you are and for others who might be watching them.
mv-duran, 0-1, 0-1, 0-0, 0; gutierrez, 1-2, 1-13, 1-1, 6; miles, 0-0, 4-5, 3-3,  11; schaefer, 0-0, 1-4, 0-0, 4; archuleta, 0-0, 1-1, 0-0, 2; wright, 0-0, 0-0,  1-1, 1; salvia, 1-1, 1-2, 0-0,5; hart, 0-0, 1-1, -0-, 2; mcauliffe, 0-0, 1-6,  1-2, 3; quintanilla, 0-0, 1-1, 2 derbin, 0-0, 0-1, 0-0, 0.
hockett had a 4-1 lead at the end of the  first period.
we had a modest turnout for our january birthdays celebration.
remember, your sled needs to be homemade and have brakes - no store-bought  sleds or tubes.
this is a great event for a school, youth group, church or civic  organization as well as for the talented individual.
sophomores kim canty, kristen ducharme and lindsay mackey each picked up an  offensive rebound in their time on the floor and mackey missed her only shot  attempt.
temperatures  have been very moderate for this entire winter and the san juan river in town  is not iced over.
fat stored under the skin (subcutaneous fat)
we were treated to lunch by victoria's parlor with sumptuous wraps, that wonderful asparagus soup and a tasty salad.
sheridan established that fact with an 11-0 lead after the first period and a 16-0 tech fall called halfway through the second period of the match.
i retained my bulletproof vest when i retired and would very much like to get it to a serviceman or woman serving in iraq from this area, or nearby.
she began working in oils in 1965, then pursued watercolors, acrylic and pastels.
other junior high winners, all advancing, were: earth and space science - tim levonius first and rachel jensen, second.
"bayfield really tries to control the tempo and limit the amount of  their opponents' possessions," said shaffer after the game.
we were treated to  lunch by victoria's parlor with sumptuous wraps, that wonderful asparagus soup  and a tasty salad.
kelley drilled a pair for four pagosa points but  angelica salvio answered with a trey and lay-up for monte.
you may research the fyi income 35 colorado child care tax credit or give lynne bridges a call at 264-5513.
the other part of the learning curve is for the adults to understand that all kids are at different levels with different learning skills, and that maturity levels are very different.
it has been my great fortune to work with some of the finest in the nation,  to train aspiring newcomers to the field and see them advance into the top  ranks of the fourth estate legion.
the population growth within the watershed has been extraordinary in the last 10 years and is predicted to continue.
"you never know what you're going to see.
sometimes the claim is also made that unless we understand all religions we cannot understand our own as fully as we might.
with this being the 20th year for the rally, we really would like to see a  spectacular event.
a 30-minute television daily program, "the colors of his heart," was designed to teach the word of god through betty's art.
if you are a seasonal business, you can certainly display your brochures at  your peak time of the year.
we could still use some more snow for winterfest, so get out there and do  that snow dance thing.
"it will be a journey to go to new york," she said.
pagosa lakes newspagosa lakes news get neat and help a worthy fund for kids
sheldon weisgrau, with rural health consultants of lawrence, kan., is aiming to complete the grant-funded study some time around the end of april.
working to spread the word about child sexual assault has become carmen's  focus since her own family's tragedy.
but in the christian faith, it is not our perfection but christ's on  which we depend.
either the holy scriptures are the true revelation of god to men, or they  are not.
on monday, jan. 24, over 40 citizens were summoned to appear in court for possible jury selection for a "scheduled trial."
a 30-minute television daily program, "the colors of his heart,"  was designed to teach the word of god through betty's art.
morna spent weeks getting ready for this meeting, along with performing all her other duties.
in march, dow director bruce mccloskey will provide a draft of the state wildlife agency's recommendations on wolf management to the commission.
kelley drilled a pair for four pagosa points but angelica salvio answered with a trey and lay-up for monte.
cupid classifieds are not just for husbands, wives or significant others - they're a great way to share with your children, friends, neighbors, pets and so many more.
- everything on your face stays its original color.
pictures of the proposed sculptures can be seen at town hall in the parks and recreation offices.
"as such, here are highlights of some of the more common sports parenting 'myths,' so that parents and coaches can get a better lay of the land when it comes to working with their kids.
bayfield's points came on a field goal from ashley shaw, who would lead her  team in the game with 11 points, and three from the line by kelsey dean.
the library board of directors will be addressing the issue of a new  director.
"in the big city you just don't get that kind of support and you get so jaded.
the dow, wildlife commissioners, and state natural resource managers want to have a management plan in place in case more wolves enter the state.
initial weigh-in will be feb. 15  followed by a weekly weigh-in, all at the recreation center.
what we do know is that you care for your kid and other children enough to  step up and coach, exposing yourself to criticism from other parents who were  not willing to coach or get involved in a positive way.
the reporter literally went berserk, threatening bodily harm.
pagosa springs recreationpagosa springs recreation addressing concerns of sports parents by myles gabel sun columnist consider these thoughts on sports parenting myths by rick wolff, chairman of the center for sports parenting. "one of the constant concerns about trying to raise a youngster in sports these days is that there is so much misinformation and misleading advice that parents often don't know where to turn.
c.j. bell and ramsier got two each in the final minutes, but a goal-tending call on the wolverines resulted in a 27-13 pirate lead at the half.
those who do choose to walk that path will suffer hardships.
after biggs and others launched lumberton ca.
"the predator monitoring a chat room," capistrant said,  "sees the things you and your friends say to each other and can use them  as means of assessing your situation and whether you are a good target.
rachlin will also present the judge's seminar 9-11 a.m. saturday in the pagosa springs community center's south conference room.
make someone in your life feel extra special by sending them a cupid classified.
i hear that this administration is moving toward privatization of land management.
there was $600 in prize money for the adult categories in the  first tournament.
whoever enters her personal world will have their creative awareness heightened and will be gently encouraged to exercise the gift that lies deep within their soul.
"they normally won't blow their cover," capistrant said, "because they'll want to strike again." don't fall, he warned, "for promises of money, gifts, trips to exotic places or things 'you can give your mom to improve strained relations.'"
among couples participating are bob and betty santee east coast/west coast "swinging," les linton and deb aspen performing argentine tango, bodil holstein and charles jackson dancing american tango, dick and gerry potticary country stepping their progressive swing, and charles jackson and deb aspen cutting the rug with their renditions of waltz and cha cha.
the  office number is 264-8375, fax 264-8376, e-mail afautheree@archuletacounty.org.
"the people who sexually assault our children are the people who can  get close to them," the littleton mother said.
is that sounding socialistic, or do we as human beings just lack self-control?
while in aztec he lost his youngest son, dale, in 1998 and his wife, zoe, in 1999.
having been raised to treat women with respect, i once  opened the front door to our building for her and got it shoved back in my face  with this comment: "i don't need any help.
over the past three years we have developed a draft system that insures  each team has a no. 1 draft pick, and we go down the line in order so every  team has the same amount of no. 2s, no. 3s, and so on, down the line.
when the folks living in animas city asked palmer to  pay for land for railroad facilities, palmer thought the asking price too high.
" this special program is a video presentation of a sermon delivered last summer in durango by the reverend william sinkford, president of the national unitarian universalist association (uua).
just pick up a cupid classified form at the pagosa springs sun, the humane society of pagosa springs animal shelter, the pagosa springs area chamber of commerce or humane society thrift store, or cut out the coupon from this week's issue of the sun.
the organization has applied for a grant from the daniels foundation for $50,000.
louden david was awarded the penalty point and got a 7-4 win.
also on saturday, feb. 12, is the snow sculpting contest here at the  visitor center starting 10 a.m. with judging at 3 p.m. you can pick up an entry  form here or we can fax you one.
growth should be controlled.
what researchers have learned is that fat is much more than an extra layer of insulation.
ahead 10-5,  armijo put an end to the game, pinning atencio at 3:50.
guests are encouraged to vote for the people's choice award, which will be tallied and announced half way through the evening.
every dollar raised in "slim for seeds" will be donated to seeds  of learning family center to help them build a much-needed new facility.
nelson pinned brian murphy of mancos in  the second period then lost to ignacio's nick naranjo.
pagosa converted 11 of 25 from the line, bayfield 10 of 21.
i am an addict myself, and i never stop hearing what dealers and concerned citizens say: "one hit and you'll never quit.
weather the past week has been exceptionally pleasant for this time of year.
like every other profession, journalism has its share of flakes, free thinkers and some of the most highly intelligent and concerned people in the world legacieslegacies 90 years ago taken from the pagosa springs sun files of feb. 5, 1915
" u.s. congress in a 1782 resolution: "the congress of the united states recommends and approves the holy bible for use in all schools.
she spends her summers performing at music festivals throughout the united states and europe, including the spoleto italy festival, the aims in graz, austria festival, the oregon coast festival, the ernest bloch festival in newport, oregon, and is a nine-year member of the britt festival orchestra in jacksonville, oregon.
just having the list isn't enough, carmen said.
- i will say "no!" to anyone who wants to play a body game with me, then i will keep telling until it stops.
having performed with orchestras around the world and in the pbs "concerto" series, he too was a great hit with local audiences the last two summers.
dates, times and  fees are listed below in the calendar section.
in the late 1800s the supreme court of the united states agreed to rule on the question and spent 10 years reviewing all of the available evidence.
are the current needs of the recreation visitor being met and what changes are needed to prepare for recreation uses into the future?
keshet passed out fliers which compared parents' childhood life to that of parents today.
for further information on this year's county budget, visit the county's web site at: http://www.archuletacounty.org/finance/finance.htm.
but despite his education and desire, there was one trait that proved an  immeasurable drawback.
at this time, i don't believe any stagecoaches entered the san juan basin from  the outside.
once again, do not say that there is nothing to do in pagosa!
by kayla douglass come enjoy the photo contest reception at moonlight books, 5-7 p.m.  saturday.
obviously it wasn't needed.
the program is free and confidential and is provided for low and moderate income people.
so make it a special weekend for you, your family, or that special person in your life by getting out, having some fun, and enjoying some of the events we have here in pagosa.
classes cover breathing and cardiac emergencies, as well as basic injuries.
routes and means had to be available for bringing supplies into an area and for shipping out the products produced in the area.
with hunting and fishing  being such a large industry in this area, you need to give trophy classics a  call, especially if you outfitters need to accommodate your clients during  hunting season so they can show off their conquests.
if you missed it, try to come out for this  second tournament.
another court insult to the same citizens is a memo handed out saying if you were not selected today, show up next week, 1/31/05 for a different trial.
add to all of this the fact temperatures are usually lowest late in the  evening; it makes for a long day or week for the crew.
and, pagosa had nine blocked shots, three by jewell, two by buikema and one each by kelley, scott, walkup and forrest.
for more information contact annette foor at 264-5549.
"after this happened, my husband and i just kept saying 'why didn't we know this?'"
does anything need to be done about it?
be a part of the den.
as a consequence, ems services would have to be reduced until either private or mill levy funds could be generated to offset costs.
sigi rodriguez hit a charity toss to break the ice for monte, forrest got two with a turnaround jumper, then monte's kyle jones completed a three-point play to make it 10-4 pagosa with just over two minutes gone in the opening frame.
the  optimum temperatures for resurfacing are from 4-10 below zero.
people cards of thankspeople cards of thanks layne a big thank you to: 1.
on friday, july 22 pagosa welcomes internationally famous violinist vadim gluzman, whose performance will include bruch's "octet" at 7 p.m.
i once worked with a female reporter who was highly into the feminist  independence movement.
forrest and craig schutz continued their offensive onslaught early in the third, outscoring monte 12-2 to give pagosa a 49-17 advantage midway through the period.
on sunday, after the balloon rally, everyone needs to head on over to high  country lodge on u.s. 160 east for the almost anything goes downhill sled race.
first day - a winter landscape  and winter still life; second day - fall landscape and harvest still life;  third day - spring/summer flowers and summer still life.
a disabled person for all of 2004 may be eligible, regardless of age.
four athletes in each weight class advance to the state tournament at denver the following week.
pictures of the proposed sculptures can be seen at town hall in the parks  and recreation offices.
consequently, a stage  connection between the railroad and pagosa springs was maintained.
below are two of the offerings: "marketing on the cheap: how small businesses cut costs by writing  their own promotions," feb. 12 "writing personal essays," feb. 7-march 14.
robert horstman vests for troops dear editor: i am new to pagosa springs and a recently retired police officer.
march 17-18 - beginning oil painting, "nuts and bolts of oil  painting," with betty slade, community center arts and craft space, 9  a.m.-3 p.m., $80 per student april 14-15 - oil painting, "nuts and bolts two," with betty  slade, critiquing work from march class and new paintings, $80 per student.
prior to the meet, coach dan janowsky predicted the final result would  depend on the bonus point factor - on the additional points scored with major  decisions, technical falls and pins.
the quality or state of being true; specif., a) orig., loyalty; trustworthiness b) sincerity; genuineness; honesty c) the quality of being in accordance with experience, facts, or reality; conformity with facts d) reality; actual existence e) agreement with a standard, rule, etc.; correctness; accuracy 2.
"monte vista won the league," said the coach, "and,  teamwise, they are sitting pretty good coming into the regional tournament.
the  balloons will launch from a site near the pagosa lakes recreation center.
17th psac photo contest opens saturday
one might assume that the performing arts stage is invisible in a town like pagosa.
it is a great, inexpensive way to let people know about you and the services you provide to our community.
"we'll just have to play to our strengths and keep trying to improve on the things we already do well," he concluded.
gutierrez opened with a deuce for the visitors and schaefer followed suit, converting off a poor pirate pass in the front line, cutting the pagosa lead to 17-12.
then, on feb. 22, he'll turn the class' attention to the computer and what  to do with the image files once they're in the camera.
the plan will address housing, economic development, health and safety, natural environment, public infrastructure, transportation, parks, recreation, trails and open space, community facilities, history of the community, and growth and development.
keshet passed out fliers which compared parents' childhood life to that of  parents today.
what's more, leptin may work against people trying to lose weight because, as a person loses weight, the body tends to release less leptin, potentially contributing to a boost in appetite and reduction in the number of calories burned at a given activity level.
pagosa outrebounded the wolverines 49-10.
to note our own town  government has largely failed in its promise to publish accounts on its web  site only adds to the argument against the idea.
madrid also drew a bye to start the day, then forged a 9-6 decision over a  piedra vista opponent.
is there any difference between the rich man and the poor man besides the money?
during world war ii, he served in the sea bees in the pacific theatre as a welder.
we could still use some more snow for winterfest, so get out there and do that snow dance thing.
is this ok, or is it a bad thing?
if you are poor you probably do and if you are rich you probably do not.
therefore, jesus the christ of god, is our substitute for our failure to  keep the law, for our complete inability to obtain the forgiveness of sins, and  is the one who overcame the curse of sin - which is death - by rising to life  from good friday's tomb.
editorial lots of light, please now the colorado legislature is back in session one issue domi-nates the  scene - the budget problem faced by the state, the need to deal with revenue  and spending constraints that have a stranglehold on state government's ability  to deal with basic concerns.
by richard walter staff writer as a child, your parents probably told you to stay away from the seedy areas of bars and strange people.
not all recreation or competitive experiences are positive, but you have to try to always put the child's learning and enjoyment of participation first and foremost.
helpful program the aarp sponsored tax-aide program is returning again this year.
our strained minds were very grateful.
durango va clinic the durango va outpatient clinic is at 400 s. camino del rio, suite g,  durango, colorado 81301.
pagosa started the dual with a 6-0 lead as the falcons forfeited at 171 pounds.
there is not a lot of time involved, but the service you provide is invaluable.
below are two of the offerings: "marketing on the cheap: how small businesses cut costs by writing their own promotions," feb. 12 "writing personal essays," feb. 7-march 14.
christianity teaches that all men are conceived and born sinful and can never -  no matter how hard one tries - do enough good things or think enough good  thoughts to ever merit god's forgiveness for our sin.
it is important to note that lynch started only three of his regular  starters in the game, and substituted freely in all but the third period when  the seniors put on their show.
as a result, it is now unlikely the county will face serious ramifications related to the delinquent submittal of the audit to the state auditor's office.
please call  or come by to pick up your event packet.
marcus rivas fought only two matches to capture third at 189.
tree carvings we have given the go-ahead to start the carvings on the old cottonwood trees in the town park.
louden david was awarded the penalty point  and got a 7-4 win.
events in surrounding areas will be  included when deemed of interest to our readers.
generally speaking this of course includes the current conflicts as well as the first gulf war, vietnam, korea, world war ii and so on.
further delay prompted an inquiry to the county from dianne ray, director of local government audits with the state auditor's office.
the teen-ager, who carmen calls michael in her talks, has admitted to at  least 70 different assaults involving both carmen's daughter and another girl  in his mother's care.
as far as timing goes, application and federal red tape take several months; the bigger issue will be, as always, funding for any required improvements, operations and staff.
the introductory session for interested parents will be held from 6-8 p.m. at the pagosa springs community center.
haven't we had enough of the biblical references, dire predictions, and politically vitriolic (look that up in your funk and wagnall!)
married veteran a and a pension is $20,099.
the county man who plows the bus turnaround at colo. 151 and old gallegos road; 2.
while there, you can also enter the super bowl  race, 11 a.m.-1 p.m. you will even have time to ski and then make it home to  watch the game.
what is going on is a total lack of concern, disregard and indifference for the citizens who appeared as summoned.
groups interested in collaborating together for pagosa funding may contact leanne goebel at lgoebel@centurytel.net.
so couch potatoes aren't necessarily intentionally lazy.
i believe a major portion of people traffic and freight in and out of the basin at this time was accomplished via the railroad, especially during winter when mud and snow pretty much stopped other forms of travel.
"bayfield really tries to control the tempo and limit the amount of their opponents' possessions," said shaffer after the game.
"thanks to the browns, we will enjoy this music in a spectacular mountain setting at the foot of wolf creek pass.
but it was walkup's turn to become floor leader for a period, bagging four deuces from different spots on the floor, the prettiest a pull-up 12-foot jumper over miles, who is two inches taller.
sophomores kim canty, kristen ducharme and lindsay mackey each picked up an offensive rebound in their time on the floor and mackey missed her only shot attempt.
with wildfires, house fires and storms always a threat, we need to create our own disaster team here in pagosa.
people who only plan the colorado property tax /rent-heat rebate application should come in early, as there are four payments rather than one this year.
the colorado avalanche information center reports the current avalanche danger in the southern san juan mountains ranges from "moderate" to "considerable."
mercy's healthy heart check will be held in the durango hospital's main  lobby feb. 15 and 16 from 6:30-9:30 a.m.
it's a common thing to exchange such data with a friend in describing the new jacket, but it gives the watching predator more information about you as an individual.
pirate junior paul przybylski hit craig schutz in stride on the break to tie, and the wolverines saw their last lead of the game at 5-4 after lee ramsier hit one of two at the line.
a pagosa fast break coming off the effective press and a runaway 74-35  victory for the homestanding pagosans.
it is not uncommon to find boards of tax-supported entities using  any excuse, however slim, to go into executive session to do business and, upon  reconvening in regular session, to speed past the general outline of content.
head coach jim shaffer was pleased with his team's performance during the  win.
in the final, an opponent from dove creek was dispatched in  the first period.
her daughter remains in counseling and is doing well.
the pagosa pirate board work was outstanding, leading the visitors 34-12 paced by walkup's nine and five for forrest.
events in surrounding areas will be included when deemed of interest to our readers.
forrest topped pagosa's scoring column for the evening with 17 points,  followed by shaffer with a dozen and craig and casey schutz with twin totals of  11.
while  creatine, andro, and ephedra products are legal in most states, that does not  mean that they are healthy for your youngster.
they favor activist judges that do not understand the constitution.
environmental science - waylon lucero first and julia adams second.
the columnist had written about her favorite pecan pie; she printed the submitted recipe: 2 cups flour 2/3 cups lard 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 egg yolk 1 teaspoon lemon juice approx.
the red shoe piano trio was formed in the fall of 2003 at fort lewis college in durango.
meyer, who is also mother to a 5-year-old son, william, calls the opportunity to perform in the current production "a gift."
yet another would make underage alcohol violations confidential.
we have the potential to do very well." action at monte vista begins friday at 2 p.m. friday's schedule includes the first round, the championship quarterfinals and two rounds of consolation.
share-a-ride don't forget to call or stop by my office with your va health care appointments for the "share-a-ride program.
tickets are available at the silver foxes den senior center, plaid pony and the chamber of commerce.
larger fat cells also cause the release of a variety of inflammatory proteins that result in low-level inflammation throughout the body.
if the answer is yes, you will require a bigger commitment.
moisture totals for the week amounted to just over one inch.
this allows a no. 1 and 2 player more  playing minutes, and since the substitution and equal playing time grid is a  little off, it sometimes seems unfair.
a pan consultation enables organizations to obtain low-cost assistance on a  host of issues from planning and board development to considering a facility.
i won't go into exact detail on all of these parameters,  but obviously if you're a robust, healthy, working age veteran temporarily out  of a job, you probably won't qualify for this benefit.
he was 84 and had been battling lung cancer for six months.
"don't even hint at your family name, your phone number, your friends, social security number, age, area of residence or school attended."
betty desires to share her knowledge and  stir the artist heart in others.
do we have a road crew?
joe romine lost to centauri's martin maez in a fall at 275.
the following are a few of the budget highlights discussed in burchett's narrative.
bring your dd form 214 (discharge) for registration with the county, application for va programs, and for filing in the vso office.
the second period was a 17-10 effort for pagosa but shots were still clanking off the metal or prompting cries of "air ball!
it is often said, in today's pluralistic culture, that all religions are  basically the same and that we can learn from all of them.
that is not to say that all predators are male, but nationwide statistics  show the biggest percentage are.
if  they are not learning or winning as much as you would like, we need to visit  about private camps, private clubs available for these kids.
it is wholly inadequate to the government of any other.
there's still time to fill out and turn in your cupid classified.
i just attended an all-day session for american red cross disaster training.
the quality or state of being true; specif., a) orig., loyalty;  trustworthiness b) sincerity; genuineness; honesty c) the quality of being in  accordance with experience, facts, or reality; conformity with facts d)
most of the counselors are returning this year.
it will begin to turn just as soon as a serious wash-out in the ditch is repaired, which will be in a few days.
proceeds will benefit the "den" as well as the  ft.
with your support, this study will help positively impact decisions made in the watershed for years to come.
here, people who don't even have kids are going just to support kids."
she offered seven "self-safety strategies" to teach children: - my body is my own and no one else's and i have the right to keep my body private.
"it's sometimes tough for us to be patient because we like to get out and run, but the guys didn't force the issue and did a good job of taking what was available," he added.
get your teams together now  for this exciting, adult league.
we completely depend on the sacrificial suffering and death of our lord as full and complete payment for all our sins.
instructor barr bentley is a native colorado craftsman who has been building for over 20 years and teaching construction skills to adults and children in the course of his work during the last eight years.
there are only 10 slots available to display an ad for your business.
"we didn't want to do them wrong, we wanted to do right for our child."
"after this happened, my husband and i just kept saying 'why didn't we  know this?'"
public comment is welcome and encouraged.
this is a great event for a school, youth group, church or civic organization as well as for the talented individual.
game time for friday's pagosa-ignacio clash in the ignacio high school gym is 7 p.m. summary scoring: forrest 7-10, 1-1, 17; craig schutz 5-9, 0-0, 11; casey schutz 4-11, 3-3, 11; hilsabeck 1-2, 0-0, 2; przybylski 1-3, 0-0, 3; shaffer 5-9, 0-0, 12; rand 2-4, 0-0, 4; ormonde 0-1, 0-0 0; hart 0-1, 0-0 0; trujillo 1-1, 0-0 2; martinez 0-1, 0-0, 0; bahn 0-0, 0-0, 0.
san juan river flow through town ranged from a low of about 90 cubic feet per second to a high of approximately 155 cubic feet per second last week.
identification as a county resident is required.
find out  about the scholarship programs to assist with medical needs as well.
they are in the  process of raising funds to start building a new facility.
county clerk john dillinger has sold a total of 450 licenses as of monday  of this week.
- you get extra credit for the slightest act of thoughtfulness.
turn east on greenbriar drive off of north pagosa by the fire station, then left into the parking lot and look for the big sign.
senate bill 69 would remove the names from the required semi-annual public notice list of county employee salaries.
it is not uncommon to find a quorum of members of a board gathering outside  noticed public meetings, discussing issues and making decisions in a situation  without notice or access.
scott stayed hot with a pair of treys.
the usfsr seems to have adopted a new method for managing public comment, to prevent it from "getting out of hand."
"those are our program stats only," liz wantusiak stressed,  adding the number of cases in the area may be higher because it is such an  under-reported crime.
limit two entries per artist selected entries up to the limit of our exhibit space will be on exhibit in  may. psac will retain 30-percent commission on entries for sale.
at 103, travis moore faced yet another in the polkowski dynasty at centauri - mitchell polkowski.
the chemical changes that occur in the body are fierce.
i also hope that you will be able to give a little or a lot to the seeds of learning campaign.
we also appreciate the donation of a  number of wonderful materials that will go into our collection, from a donor  who wishes to remain anonymous.
the springs inn and best western contributed lodging for the ambassadors.
anyway, once again, thank you for everything.
discovered in 1994, leptin is released by fat  cells.
while the inflammation does not cause symptoms such as fever or pain, it can reduce the ability of insulin to move glucose out of the blood, thus leading to the development of plaque in the arteries and increased risk for heart attack or stroke.
this hobby has really gone gangbusters: scrapbooking.
don't give clues, they repeatedly told the children, as to who you are.
county clerk john dillinger has sold a total of 450 licenses as of monday of this week.
sportsmanship is something that can only  be taught by your child's coach.
ged coordinator, is available monday-thursday 1:30- 3:30 p.m. and monday and wednesday from 5:30-8:30 p.m. registration can be completed monday-friday, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. at the education center, 4th and lewis streets.
this service is offered via irs/aarp trained and certified volunteers who reside in pagosa.
our platinum event team sponsors are buckskin towing and troy ross construction.
for information on these and other veterans' benefits please call or stop by the veterans service office on the lower floor of the county courthouse.
by building this new facility, along with more than doubling the  enrollment, the organization can qualify for national accreditation by the  national association of educating young children, a huge asset for archuleta  county.
tickets are only $6 for seniors and students and $8 for adults in advance.
nationwide, the number of sex offenders reaches 374,270.
a loss to a dove creek wrestler put madrid in second  place.
the tourney starts anew saturday at 9 a.m. with championship semifinals followed by third round consolation.
nine firms reply to town's invitation for plan consultant by tess noel baker staff writer nine proposals from comprehensive planning consultants were received by the town's jan. 31 deadline.
monte no match for hometown pirates in 77-30 blowou by tom carosello staff writer it still qualifies as a basketball rivalry, but the showdown between pagosa springs and monte vista has been rather one-sided lately.
kari beth faber, rounding out an excellent role in support of the starting  cast, had a deuce.
josh nelson battled the falcons' mitchell buhr at 112 and was pinned.
a second major industry soon followed -- logging.
it is not uncommon to find boards of tax-supported entities using any excuse, however slim, to go into executive session to do business and, upon reconvening in regular session, to speed past the general outline of content.
would you like to lose a few pounds and at the same time lend a helping  hand to seeds of learning family center - archuleta county's only non-profit  child care center?
"i think the thing i was most pleased with was our defense," he added.
where once the parent warned the child to look both ways before crossing the street, or not to talk to strangers, with more and more children every year going on the internet, there's a new set of precautions.
- i understand that when a bigger kid or adult is doing anything with me, i  will not get in trouble because it is never the little kid's fault.
fun on the run isn't it great to be a guy š - your last name stays put.
- you don't give a hoot if someone notices your new haircut.
armijo built a 6-3 first period lead, taking atencio down then letting him up to set up another takedown.
or log on to the humane society web site at www.humanesociety.biz.
however, the wolverines played pagosa evenly early on, slowing the pace and taking a 4-2 mid-quarter lead on a drive by c.j. bell after early baskets by pagosa's casey schutz and bayfield's kyle guilliams.
obituaries w.s. 'smitty' eoff longtime local ranch owner w.s. "smitty" eoff died at the family  ranch near pagosa springs tuesday, jan. 25.
the store carries a full line of auto, truck and heavy-duty parts, a full line of auto and small-engine tools, boat and trailer accessories and much more.
to argue that traditional forms of publication of legal notice are  conventional and commonly accessible and that government web sites are not  available to significant numbers of voters should suffice.
according to the town's home rule charter, adopted in the fall of 2003, the town is required to update its comprehensive plan every five years.
the members of the trio,  mikylah myers mcteer, violin; katherine jetter tischhauser, cello; and lisa  campi, piano, are currently faculty members at fort lewis college where they  maintain active teaching and performing careers.
by the time palmer's trains were chugging across cumbres pass and that section of new mexico, a man named biggs and others had already been cutting into the vast stand of ponderosa pines that stretched across portions of northern new mexico and southern colorado.
the goal may sound lofty but the show, which is based on poetry, music and movement, feels organic and necessary.
chris chavez usfs plan control dear editor: the u.s. forest service (usfsr) and blm are revising land management plans initiated in 1984.
that is, he must have served in the military during a wartime period as defined by the va.
if your  organization is interested, please act soon.
once the surveys are tabulated we will be holding several landowner meetings to discuss the future plan.
if this court conduct continues citizens may develop apathy toward jury service and its importance.
232 to place your team on the 2005  schedule.
come hear her talk at 1 p.m. check out the fourth annual aarp-redfeather snowshoe festival at devils' thumb ranch (two miles west of fraser off u.s. 40).
- you don't have to shave below your neck.
in the last minute of the half she tickled twine twice from beyond the arc and pagosa had a 38-20 lead at the break.
with pagosa reserves in the game, miles got back into the scoring column with two field goals and a charity toss, and junior amy hart scored for monte, her only points of the game.
if you are new in town or have lived here for a while and are maybe interested in building a new home, there is a class being offered for you.
mitch schaefer sank a pair at the line for monte with 17 seconds remaining,  but casey schutz drained a deep three just before the horn sounded and pagosa  entered the final quarter on top 64-19.
if one's hope is in human accomplishments and works, then those with such a  hope will never know if they have done enough, become enlightened enough, or  thought enough good things and will always be left in doubt and fear as a  result.
currently, should there be an emergency, someone is dispatched from la plata county.
we have had shower stalls and ironing boards for sleds in the  past!
"were we up just 28-15 at the half," he noted afterward.
basketball, baseball or soccer will have volunteer coaches who know  more than others, however these coaches have stepped up for your children.
- your pals can be trusted never to trap you with, "so, notice  anything different?
back in action at the varsity level after rehab with the junior varsity from a severe ankle injury, china rose rivas was zero-for-two from the field but had a defensive rebound and an assist on forrest's last basket.
if you are new  or are just interested in reminding people out there about your business, bring  750 single page (can be front and back) sheets to the chamber where, for $40,  we will stuff the inserts into the newsletter.
meyer said the result of all those creative minds focusing on an element like water was a forum for wild creativity and energy.
this often-requested class will be taught 7 p.m.
we'll control the meeting.
"those are our program stats only," liz wantusiak stressed, adding the number of cases in the area may be higher because it is such an under-reported crime.
seniors inc. has graciously volunteered to cover some of our meals, so that whenever seniors come in on the last friday of the month to celebrate their birthday for that month, they only have to pay $1 for their meal.
construction and tourism drive pagosa's economy.
we will also award a $100 gift certificate to montezuma's  restaurant and a $50 savings bond from citizen's bank.
give liz marchand a call at 731-3391 for more  information.
however, researchers have found that obese people often are not sensitive to leptin; thus, it has little effect on their appetite and calorie usage.
the opening line of one poem simply reads, "gravity is the memory of light.
in the march newsletter, i will provide a year in review and plans for the upcoming year.
at least don't say that to me because i can always find you something to do.
the best we  hope to do with "slim for seeds" is to give you a kick in the pants.
in 2001 he was elected as uua president and is currently nominated for a second four-year term.
doug had some good information and fabulous photos, so we hope to have him back again in the spring.
the vast majority of moms and dads tend  to be honest and fairly objective about their child's ability in sports.
as inspiring as some of the weight loss programs are and as knowledgeable about the issue as you can be, all that won't make you healthier.
don't be embarrassed to report a possible problem.
palmer's narrow gauge reached what today is known as durango in 1881.
the first organizational meeting for the 2005 relay will take place at the visitor center 5 p.m. wednesday, feb. 9.
team entries - victoria espinosa and ashley taylor first; ashley brooks and jessica blum, second; taylor cunningham and jordin frey, third; and kara hollenbeck and amanda oertel, honorable mention.
call 382-1521 for more information.
that cutting accelerated with the coming of the railroad and it was the existence of the giant pines that led to completion of a railroad line to pagosa springs in 1900.
he became intensely angry when even a single word was changed in his reportage.
you may, however, copy a recipe or two from these books.
romine lost his first match to greg kinney of bayfield then put together two consecutive pins - over competitors from dove creek and mancos - to secure third place.
this year the focus will primary be on reproduction and restocking.
they have no definitive plan to offer the american people.
the trick to receiving the grant is that they must first raise $50,000 locally.
they will deal with techniques for creating positive communication between students and their parents about sexuality, peer pressure, options, self esteem, and the personal choices which are required in this challenging period.
outside the glare given off by battles over modifications to tabor some of  our elected officials are back at a task they undertake every year -  attempting, bit by little bit, to further erode our ability to obtain the  information we need to operate as members of a free society and in a functional  representative democracy.
our religion and morality are the indispensable supporters.
lynch converted a pair from the stripe where kelley also notched three to go with a final field goal that kept her in double figures (10 for the fourth consecutive game.
by renee haywood special to the sun the archuleta county education center is offering a full lineup of fun and exciting activities for all ages.
the first is from seeds of learning childcare center.
my emotions now go from glorious to totally ticked off.
the entire restoration project is expected to cost in the neighborhood of $400,000.
carmen  suggested parents should sit down with their children regularly to discuss  safety, setting limits and communication.
with this many balloons, the glow should be one  of the best we have had.
people who are overweight, and especially those who are insulin resistant, have low levels of adiponectin, which may raise the risk for diabetes and heart disease.
some important role modeling also goes on as young girls and women watch a woman coach the team and come up against male players.
any thoughts monte might have had of a second half comeback died in a withering pagosa press that limited the visitors to just four shots from the floor in the period and a total of three points, all by senior erin mcauliffe.
gutierrez opened with a deuce for the visitors and schaefer followed suit,  converting off a poor pirate pass in the front line, cutting the pagosa lead to  17-12.
these classes are held daily 3:15-5 p.m., except fun friday afternoons which are 1:15-5 p.m. there are also after-school activities for students in grades 5-9 at the junior high school on a regular basis.
letters state of denial dear editor: ms. nina j. adams' letter to the editor jan. 27 illustrates why the democratic party is a party of losers.
jessica lynch dropped in a 6-foot jumper for pagosa and then caitlin forrest put the cap on a 17-8 pagosa first quarter with a spinning left-handed hook in the lane.
c.j. bell scored with a drive, then both teams opened up from behind the arc as shaffer drilled a pair of treys to counter a three ball from colton bell and the pirates held a 60-30 lead at 1:52.
if you live within this watershed area and haven't received a questionnaire in the mail, contact the san juan conservation district at 731-3615.
daren hockett squared off against centauri's aaron quinlan at 125.
the final weigh-in will be march 29.
there are too many factors that might influence how that athlete will develop when it comes to sports.
an older community, known as animas city, straddled the animas river north of today's durango, roughly north of today's mercy hospital.
just as they need to be taught about physical safety in the real world, we need to teach them to be safer in the online world.
give them a call at 731-0821 for more information on  this great service to our area.
feb. 5 - psac photo contest, opening reception at moonlight books, 5-7 p.m. feb. 16 - watercolor club, community center, 10 a.m.
for more information log on to: www.westernslopegardening.org or drop by the extension office for a brochure.
in some teams, travel teams start as early as age 5 or 6.
casey schutz hit sophomore caleb ormonde on the break for pagosa's first  deuce of the fourth, then przybylski and hilsabeck took turns at the foul line  to make it 69-19 with 6:04 to play.
if someone has  prepared their returns but has a question they may come in for assistance.
she is also impressed by the number of people in pagosa willing to support the performing arts.
three additional classical concerts will take place in july and august, also at bootjack ranch: 1.
how can a nonprofit pay that much for there top guy and still do a great job?
contact the office for more information at 247-7385 or e-mail extstudy@fortlewis.edu.
by tom carosello staff writer pagosa country is moving up the charts.
reporting such crime is also important, carmen said.
from 1881  until about 1895, that stagecoach route led from amargo to pagosa springs by  what became later known as edith.
the intent of the production is to challenge the audience to strip away skins others have sewn for them and find their authentic selves.
expressing her desire to expedite the process, "overnight it," concluded mamie lynch, board chair.
carmen can be contacted at (303) 933-9564 or lisacarmen@earthlink.net.
engineering firm picked for river restoration plan by tess noel baker staff writer restoration of the san juan river - for fishing and boating - from town park to the apache street bridge is expected to begin with design work and maintenance over the next several months.
gluzman has been lauded by critics and audiences as one of the most inspiring, dynamic artists performing today.
read a biography about a great  lover, singer or romantici?
shop where it illustrates his continuing love affair with nature, nurtured by  the variety of moods and emotions that are expressed in her handiwork digital photo seminars bruce andersen will lead a two-part seminar in digital photography called  digital basics.
does anyone really care if henry buslepp calls himself a liberal or conservative, republican or democrat, or if nina j. adams thinks that people who supposedly don't even pay taxes will get the biggest tax cut?
reality; actual existence e) agreement with a standard, rule, etc.;  correctness; accuracy 2.
1895 beginning the demise of amargo, the stage route led from lumberton through  the same edith crossing of the navajo river to pagosa springs.
"we've struggled of late," said the coach, "and we'll have  to see who shows up friday and saturday.
best of show winner from the sixth grade was ryann charles with a project analyzing the power exerted on a baseball by wooden, metal and "corked" bats and the distance a ball would travel if struck with similar force by each of the bats.
there will be a silent auction, great food and good fun at a cost of $50  per person.
the second period was a 17-10 effort for pagosa but shots were still  clanking off the metal or prompting cries of "air ball!
treat yourself to a "red hot" evening of music tuesday, feb. 8 at  restoration fellowship, 264 village dr.
to anyone who wants to touch or look at any  private part of my body or wants me to touch or look at any private part of  their body, then i will tell an adult and keep telling until it stops.
a pagosa fast break coming off the effective press and a runaway 74-35 victory for the homestanding pagosans.
then, it was pagosa's turn to earn some bonus points.
to argue that traditional forms of publication of legal notice are conventional and commonly accessible and that government web sites are not available to significant numbers of voters should suffice.
in  some teams, travel teams start as early as age 5 or 6.
for any questions, concerns or additional information about any of the  department's adult or youth sports programs, contact myles gabel, recreation  supervisor, at 264-4151, ext. 232.
it was used thursday and friday with the two combining to help fifth- and sixth-graders know what a cyber predator is, what they want, and how to avoid them.
shepherd's staffshepherd's staff truth: salvation is by faith, through grace by richard bolland
in the bible there are no less than 224 references to truth.
it did have some coal  deposits.
unlike running a marathon, neat is within the reach of everyone because the kind of activity that is espoused does not require special or large spaces, unusual training regimens or gear.
the pirates travel to ignacio friday for a contest against the bobcats -  1-6 overall and 1-2 in the conference, the lone win being over bayfield 60-49  in bayfield.
- your pals can be trusted never to trap you with, "so, notice anything different?" - phone conversations are over in 30 seconds flat.
from the rest of the pirates, coach bob lynch got single first-period  markers from lori walkup and caitlyn jewell for an 11-5 lead after one.
operating expenses for the solid waste fund this year are budgeted at $156,213, with roughly 40 percent of that total aimed at covering the costs of operating and maintaining landfill and recycling center equipment.
if you are unaware of this program but think  you might qualify please come in to ask us about it.
by ming steen sun columnist weight loss is big industry here in our country.
deadline for the newsletter inserts is friday, feb. 18.
other orchestras dr. tischhauser has been a member of include the tallahassee symphony, the new carolina sinfonia, the tar river orchestra, the national opera company orchestra, the music in the mountains festival orchestra, and the santa fe symphony.
the town has arranged for some land and now the building fund must start.
events friday, feb 4 - qi gong, 10 a.m.; veteran's benefits, noon; spiritual death and dying issues with bodil holstein, 1 p.m. monday, feb. 7 - medicare counseling, 11 a.m.- 1 p.m.; bridge for fun, 1 p.m.; famous people i have met, with john graves, 1 p.m. tuesday, feb. 8 - yoga in motion, 10 a.m.; 10:30 basic computer class, 10:30; massage and healing touch, 11 a.m.-1:30 p.m.; red shoe trio at restoration fellowship, 7 p.m. wednesday, feb. 9 - canasta, 1 p.m. thursday, feb. 10 - durango trip.
the tournament will run 9:30 a.m.-2:30 p.m.
they note parents/guardians need to develop "rules of the road"  for children's computer use, perhaps keeping the terminal in a public area and  not in the child's room; spending time with children while they are on line and  encouraging the children to inform them about disturbing online encounters.
the club normally has three dances and the summer fiesta as fund-raisers to  support scholarships for pagosa springs high school graduates.
twenty-nine degrees below zero this morning was a sample of pagosa  temperature this winter.
and you thought we just gave parties and planned fun events.
centauri was ahead 21-12.
the trio has performed throughout the region to delighted  audiences.
his seminar will address composition, digital camera resolution settings, things to look for when purchasing a digital camera, portable hard drives for field use, neutral density filters and special effects.
now, in those days, associated press was the wire service, and there was no  transmission to hard copy.
" john jay (first court justice): "when we select our national leaders, to preserve our nation, we must select christians." john quincy adams (8/4/1821): "the highest glory of the american revolution was this: it connected in one indissoluble bond the principles of civil government with the principles of christianity.
special projects director julie jessen said a final selection should be made around the first week in march.
one time grandma paid the cook at the hotel for his pie crust recipe.
this is a must see hilarious family comedy starting at 5 p.m. at the high school gym winterfest weekend happens right before valentine's day.
attendance is limited to 125 guests.
an additional pedestrian bridge in town park was one suggestion outlined in a proposed downtown master plan, would connect the town park riverwalk with the reservoir hill trails system and could provide a spectacular viewing point for watching river sports.
lisa campi is the assistant professor of piano at fort lewis college where she performs, accompanies, teaches private and class piano, theory and history.
entry forms will be mailed to membership feb. 10.
- a five-day vacation requires only one suitcase.
what a great family event.
watch for the display ad about this in weeks to come.
larger fat cells also cause the release of a variety of inflammatory  proteins that result in low-level inflammation throughout the body.
we have the potential to do very  well." action at monte vista begins friday at 2 p.m. friday's schedule includes  the first round, the championship quarterfinals and two rounds of consolation.
the store carries a full line of auto, truck and  heavy-duty parts, a full line of auto and small-engine tools, boat and trailer  accessories and much more.
brush crust with an egg white for protection from juice and a glaze for top.
a youngster who is a top athlete among his or her peers at age 8 is clearly destined to be a star when they're 18.
with respect to his team's defensive effort, "there were a few times  in the fourth when we gave up some easy baskets, but in general i thought we  played hard on defense, which is what makes us go," said shaffer.
carmen said the "until it stops," phrase should be stressed because many times adults fail to believe children's accusations because the offender is known and trusted.
the iml is strong,  but all the teams there will have some good individuals.
eligibility: multimedia, graphic art (watermedia, oil, pastels and drawings) and photographic art.
working to spread the word about child sexual assault has become carmen's focus since her own family's tragedy.
palmer's railroad did not stop at durango, but continued on to silverton.
the $25 cost includes complete lipid panel and fasting glucose test (hdl cholesterol, ldl cholesterol, triglycerides, blood glucose and blood pressure).
if you're looking for something special for your valentine, music in the mountains suggests giving a gift certificate for one of this summer's classical music festival events.
help a fellow veteran who may be going in the same direction to the same va facility.
along with her teaching, meyer is also collaborating with other local artists and performers to build a performing arts center in pagosa springs.
when i look back on the meet i think, but for a couple  matches, we exceeded our expectations."
in summary, burchett's narrative suggests this year's document has been prepared with a modest degree of cautious optimism.
entry fee: free to psac members; $25 for non-psac members which covers up to two entries and includes a one year membership.
przybylski dished out six assists and recorded three steals in the win, while hilsabeck added four assists and five thefts.
auto and truck traffic was supplanting the railroads.
as we mentioned in an earlier column, the discovery of gold and other  minerals was probably the single most important factor leading to settlement of  the san juans.
contact bruce at  baphoto@centurytel.net or call 731-4645 for more information or to reserve your  spot.
walkup was the key element in the early fourth period assault for pagosa, hitting three in a row from the field.
pagosa had two champions at ignacio:
they watch for clues to things you like, places you have been, indictions  of trips and how long they took and then they are able to pinpoint you as a  target.
inside the suninside
the service includes tax form preparation or review for federal, colorado and, sometimes, new mexico returns.
we welcome the following as  they renew their memberships with us: best value/high country lodge, coin  crafters and engravers, short civil engineering and land surveying, high  meadows mortgage, robin auld, best western oak ridge lodge and squirrel's pub  and pantry, domo's portable toilets, jgs (associate member), harms  photo/graphic associates, harms photographic and selecpro school of  photography, rick unger, kroger corporation, kerry dermody, foxfire  construction and, last but certainly not least, john and char neill who rejoin  as associate members.
anyone interested in getting more information or in signing up should call  maddie at 731-4912.
judaism teaches that it is through the keeping of god's law that redemption and forgiveness can be found.
forrest and craig schutz continued their offensive onslaught early in the  third, outscoring monte 12-2 to give pagosa a 49-17 advantage midway through  the period.
lori walkup, with 16 points and nine rebounds had the chance but was  pulled with three minutes left to give junior varsity players court time.
then you will know the truth, and the  truth will set you free.'"
" for example, "a slight surge" in sales tax revenue late last year is expected to maintain strength, and the county anticipates sales tax revenues this year will increase by nearly 8 percent over last year's estimated total of $1,274,000.
let me say right off no one is going to get rich on this va pension benefit.
there are many points to consider when hiring a person to adequately step in and fill lenore's shoes, and this is a decision that is not to be made in haste.
"the working group did an amazing job in reaching agreement on some of the basic issues of wolf management in colorado," said gary skiba, multi-species coordinator for the department's wildlife conservation section.
christianity teaches that all men are conceived and born sinful and can never - no matter how hard one tries - do enough good things or think enough good thoughts to ever merit god's forgiveness for our sin.
betty slade has four workshops scheduled this spring.
"it's a metaphor for my life.
so make it a  special weekend for you, your family, or that special person in your life by  getting out, having some fun, and enjoying some of the events we have here in  pagosa.
if you and your friend can see it, so can the predator." "if someone interrupts or follows up one of your chat room visits with a request to meet you," he said, "call us or tell your parent and have them call us.
"kids will be happy as long as they are part of a winning team.
new camera owners and recent converts from film cameras  will benefit equally from the classes.
sincerely, danny white colorado springs expunged quotes dear editor: in defense of mr. sawicki and to enlighten his maligners, including the editor's sarcastic and unprofessional note (1-20), anent the church/state issue of our founding fathers, i offer the following quotes which have been expunged from textbooks by the liberal secular humanists who run our school system.
therefore, jesus the christ of god, is our substitute for our failure to keep the law, for our complete inability to obtain the forgiveness of sins, and is the one who overcame the curse of sin - which is death - by rising to life from good friday's tomb.
" most of this year's solid waste fund expenses, $358,470, are personnel costs, including items such as payroll taxes, insurance and workers compensation.
people cards of thanks layne a big thank you to: 1.
it is a faith that has its hope solely in the love and actions of god, and not in vain attempts by sinful humanity to "get right with god.
it is an intermediate watercolor workshop with the theme "seasons in poetry."
craig schutz converted an assist from forrest to open the third, mccoy  countered with two, then pirate senior otis rand put back an offensive board  and przybylski nailed a trey to give pagosa a 34-15 edge at 6:15.
she had been invited to  pagosa springs to give a free presentation about the threat.
it is the process of gaining trust and building false relationships that predators use to entice young victims.
winterfest only two weeks and winterfest will be upon us with lots of fun activities.
let me say right off no one is going to get rich on this va pension  benefit.
we also appreciate the donation of a number of wonderful materials that will go into our collection, from a donor who wishes to remain anonymous.
from the audience, sinnot and larry escude of ems, and dave bohl, financial committee chair, said it was time for the board to redesign the platform, set some attainable goals and begin working to reach those goals.
don't hate david and carol brown because they have money.
(note the earlier starting time and saturday date.)
i am immensely proud of the support courageously shown by the plpoa board of directors during the difficult political climate of late 1997 to july 1998.
mitch schaefer sank a pair at the line for monte with 17 seconds remaining, but casey schutz drained a deep three just before the horn sounded and pagosa entered the final quarter on top 64-19.
what we do know is that you care for your kid and other children enough to step up and coach, exposing yourself to criticism from other parents who were not willing to coach or get involved in a positive way.
he was allergic to people, could not go out in a crowd,  could not cover a public meeting without coming back in a rash.
(john 8:31-32) senior news an active week ahead for local seniors by laura bedard sun columnist the red shoe piano trio was formed in the fall of 2003 at fort lewis  college in durango.
it's called  lurking.
colorado residents for all of 2004 (brief absences ok), who are over 65 or a qualifying widow(er) over 58, with income less than $11,000 single or $14,700 married, and who pay property taxes or rent and heat are usually eligible.
the rosary will be recited at 7:30 p.m. sunday in immaculate heart of mary catholic church where funeral services will be held at 10 a.m. monday, feb. 7.
why didn't they know that somewhere in the neighborhood of 90-94 percent of  sexual assaults are committed by someone known to the abuser?
and, though she is thankful for the experiences she had as a tv actress, she felt stifled.
the park crew will cut the trees to the size chad  haspels needs to start the work.
baumgardt has been a nature and landscape photographer for over 30 years.
cliff shaw and scott myers added four to monte's total in the final minute, but casey schutz sank a pair at the line and craig schutz added a three-point play to give pagosa a 26-12 lead after one.
however, "this shortfall will be covered by existing unreserved fund balance accumulated in prior years," says burchett.
at 103, travis moore faced yet another in the polkowski dynasty at centauri  - mitchell polkowski.
in 2002 he married lillian horvat.
dawn walker sports pagesports page pirates bury bayfield 62-32, go to ignacio friday
also on board this week as a new member is comfort one insulation with sabra miller at the helm.
" both, but both probably are already aware of the possible mistake and are  watching at an assigned meeting site for who they think you are and for others  who might be watching them.
otis snooks of piedra recently collected $70 bounty from the denver post  for killing four mountain lions, two full grown and two cubs.
at the ignacio tournament saturday, the pirates wrapped up the regular  season schedule with a third-place finish in the seven team event.
if you haven't been to a balloon glow or sled race before, or seen the  harlem ambassadors, shame on you!
it is no longer the strange looking man lurking in the alley children need  to be aware of.
to assume conflicting claims can both be true is to deny truth itself.
look for this data in march and read  your newsletters.
my biggest joys are to see a kid who might not have the best self-esteem gain acceptance in an arena where he or she normally would not make friends.
it is not uncommon to find a quorum of members of a board gathering outside noticed public meetings, discussing issues and making decisions in a situation without notice or access.
the victory put pagosa's record at 9-5 on the season, 3-0 in the  intermountain league, with one game on the docket this week.
people who gain weight around the middle (so-called  apples) have been shown to be at higher risk for heart disease and diabetes  than those who gain their weight in their hips and thighs (so-called pear  shapes).
as well, all of the planning and organizational work is done by clinkenbeard's local volunteer steering committee composed of melinda baum, mary jo coulehan, lauri heraty, carole howard, crystal howe, teresa huft and lisa scott.
the club normally has three dances and the summer fiesta as fund-raisers to support scholarships for pagosa springs high school graduates.
as the investigation continued, carmen learned her daughter remembered  assaults going back to at least age 3.
we are proud to present a check to the american red cross in the amount of $175 as a result of the fines money and other donations collected from you.
with pagosa reserves  in the game, miles got back into the scoring column with two field goals and a  charity toss, and junior amy hart scored for monte, her only points of the game.
users of the cumbres pass route entered pagosa springs from the south on the same u.s. 84 approach.
you'll see all the entries as well as the chosen winners.
fill it out and turn it into the pagosa springs sun office located in downtown pagosa springs by noon monday, feb. 7 and your ad(s) will appear in the feb. 10 issue of the preview.
animas city eventually withered, its remains absorbed by durango.
as inspiring as some of the weight loss programs are and as knowledgeable  about the issue as you can be, all that won't make you healthier.
pagosa sophomores kerry joe hilsabeck and jordan shaffer hooked up for two  on the break, then przybylski fed forrest and craig schutz for two apiece and  the home team led 21-8 at 1:27.
so, don't forget to tell a loved one how special they are and also help a good cause at the same time.
he wanted to be different.
the genesis of ingraham's work, meyer said, came from a period in her life where, as an attorney, she began to question if the skins she wore were accurately representing her.
the pagosa pirate press had her firing away from off-balance positions all  night.
gary hoch, representing the durango department of planning, will be guest  speaker.
entry forms will be available at the gallery in town park, feb. 15, as well  as posted on our web site, www.pagosa-arts.com.
the office is open from 8 a.m.-4 p.m., monday through thursday, friday by  appointment.
the championship round is scheduled for 6 p.m. pirates convert cold first half into jewell of a win over bayfield by richard walter staff writer tell a coach his team is going to shoot 11 of 35 from the floor and just  four of 15 from the foul line - in the first half - and you may have him out  searching for headache remedies at the break.
the tourney starts anew saturday at 9 a.m. with championship semifinals  followed by third round consolation.
state and federal agency personnel are providing technical support to the group.
she whines and complains about the bush administration.
he's just supersaturated with an excess of parental exhilaration on account of the arrival of that big, fine, embryo cowpuncher at his home last tuesday.
adult open basketball will be held at pagosa springs junior high school from  6-8 p.m. every monday and thursday until our adult basketball leagues begin in  mid-february.
the project was initiated last year, and the budgeted amount for completion of the project amounts to $196,000.
i found out about the tumor dec. 27, 2004.
at the same time, "in a fiscal state environment characterized by program reductions, layoffs and the like, it is easy for us to emphasize that our circumstances are not as good as they could be nor as good as we would like them to be."
she began working in oils in 1965, then pursued watercolors,  acrylic and pastels.
in her home area  of littleton, the registry cost her $2 and contains 98 names.
the commitment will start feb. 15 (yes, you can have your lavish  valentine's day dinner) and will end march 29.
"we needed a spark and caitlyn certainly provided it."
the members of the trio, mikylah myers mcteer, violin; katherine jetter tischhauser, cello; and lisa campi, piano, are currently faculty members at fort lewis college where they maintain active teaching and performing careers.
matt nobles was third at 160.
"we didn't  want to do them wrong, we wanted to do right for our child."
you made this visit an eventful one with many outstanding entries.
just as parents once warned children to not accept gifts or offers of help from total strangers, they, the police and the teachers, are now teaming up to help children understand who might be watching them on computer links.
julie jessen, town special projects director, said a three-phase approach will be used throughout the design process.
we don't have enough money because we don't have enough patients."
do you have some free time to donate to our homebound seniors?
ask monte vista's tabitha gutierrez, a 5-8 senior guard and one of the leading scorers in the state (159 total) coming into the san luis valley pirates' game friday in pagosa springs.
biz beat dawn and cody ross dawn and cody ross own and operate the carquest auto parts store at 523 san  juan st. in downtown pagosa springs.
- you are unable to see wrinkles in your clothes.
" now, either christianity is right in this faith or it is not.
county's 'big box' moratorium is extended
donations will be accepted.
when they succeed, they're closer to removing us from effective roles in key political, social and economic processes, making us more reliant on prepackaged information, on sources whose motives are often less than supportive of the common good.
hockett started down in the second period, escaped for a point, took  quinlan down and scored a three-point near fall.
for the game, after the terrible shooting early, pagosa was 29 of 65 from the floor for a .446 percentage; bayfield was 12 of 32 for a .373 percentage.
producers of ores needed routes and means for getting their  materials to market.
tsunami relief thank you for supporting this relief program with us last week.
currently, donations are being accepted through the jeffco children's alliance.
softball umpire training course slated feb. 12 the southwest colorado asa girl's softball association will hold an asa  softball umpire training course saturday, feb. 12.
that is quite a few in 15 days.
pagosa outrebounded  the wolverines 49-10.
but  - centauri, bayfield, us - i think we're all in the hunt.
during the nine-hour daily rehearsals, moller would ask the performers, most of whom are dancers and actors, to consider water and express it with movement.
how we pick teams every year it seems we need to educate parents, grandparents, aunts, and uncles about how we pick teams in our youth sports programs.
any help would be greatly appreciated.
"and i  thought we adjusted well to handle that style of play tonight.
maybe it is from all three.
she  had a full house for her presentation and it was quite interesting to see joann  sager in a red wig.
it is this understanding of truth that sets christianity apart as a unique religion in the world.
"what if a predator ends up luring another predator?
carmen's goal is to take "the quiet threat" to the national level.
do we need some limits here?
monte, conversely was seven for eight from the line.
tournament tickets are $5 pre-purchase and $7 on tournament day.
sportsmanship is something that can only be taught by your child's coach.
to note our own town government has largely failed in its promise to publish accounts on its web site only adds to the argument against the idea.
cost is $120 for psac members, $125 nonmembers.
adult open basketball will be held at pagosa springs junior high school from 6-8 p.m. every monday and thursday until our adult basketball leagues begin in mid-february.
following byes in the consolation round, sandoval was ahead of a dolores wrestler 9-0 when the bear took an injury default.
with 2005 being the fourth year concerts have been held in pagosa, community support is broadening and the performance of the full orchestra should involve new people in the local classical music scene.
many of the more advanced players participate in other leagues or club sports.
the other part of the learning curve is for the adults to understand that  all kids are at different levels with different learning skills, and that  maturity levels are very different.
it was interesting that doug confessed he has not seen a mountain lion in  the wild, but many of our seniors had.
patrick henry: "an appeal to arms and the god of hosts is all that is left to us."
therefore, we rejoice because there is no longer any outstanding debt of sin which remains against us.
"most of today's top professional athletes didn't even think to  specialize in just one sport until they were in high school, around the age of  15.
people who are overweight, and especially those  who are insulin resistant, have low levels of adiponectin, which may raise the  risk for diabetes and heart disease.
eligibility: multimedia, graphic art (watermedia, oil, pastels and  drawings) and photographic art.
i never knew either of my grandmothers and i love to hear about those of others.
hockett at 125 and armijo at 152.
the route into pagosa springs was either via elwood pass or from the south on a route approximating today's u.s. 84.
it actually works as an endocrine organ that secretes dozens of proteins that affect the inner workings of the body.
to take him down again.
the forecasts for today and friday call for mostly-sunny skies, daytime highs ranging from 35-45 degrees and nighttime lows anywhere from 5-15.
we completely depend on the good works (righteousness) of christ.
this year's solid waste fund also includes budgeted amounts for capital equipment acquisitions; $77,596 is allocated for purchase and installation of scales, while $56,000 is tagged for purchase of "a mobile office to serve as the gatehouse for the landfill."
the five iml teams will be joined at regionals by colorado springs christian, manitou springs, st. mary's, rock canyon, platte canyon, florence and trinidad.
the evening's special performer will be kirill gliadkovsky, born in moscow and the winner of numerous prestigious prizes.
ok, enough lecturing, here are some more great times and information for you to plan your life by.
prospective members are invited.
the performance begins at 7 p.m.
the falcon pinned moore in the second period and centauri took a 15-12 lead in the team score.
call 264-5020 or e-mail psac (psac@centurytel.net) photo club meeting the pagosa photo club will meet 5:30 p.m. feb. 9 at the community center with jim baumgardt of durango discussing "photography after dark."
older women become more apple shaped as their weight shifts following menopause.
betty and her husband al run the blanco dove center for artists and writers.
wrestlebacks will follow the sixth-place matches.
they were exercising parental guidance before the advent of computer chat  rooms and the growing threat of cyber predators.
with the opponents leading 44-24, pagosa's paul armijo aimed for some  redemption at 152.
the falcon pinned moore in the second period and centauri  took a 15-12 lead in the team score.
earth and space - kim rapp, first and advancing.
countable income monthly payments are made to bring a veteran's total annual income (including other retirement and social security income) to an established support level.
the first payment on this loan, $208,227 of principal plus $100,000 in interest, occurs this year.
with hunting and fishing being such a large industry in this area, you need to give trophy classics a call, especially if you outfitters need to accommodate your clients during hunting season so they can show off their conquests.
further information
rather, god's love and compassion are seen in that he sent his one and only son into the world to assume human flesh, to keep the law perfectly, and to suffer and die for the sins of all people.
the senior has been wrestling very well lately, and he continued to do so against brian atencio.
i can open a door by myself."
if you  are interested in "renting" an advertising slot for a year for $50,  contact doug trowbridge or myself for more information.
she praised the  advocates, law enforcement officers and other professionals who worked with her  family throughout their ordeal.
the managers' meeting  took place jan. 24 but you may still enter teams.
summary scoring, p-lynch, 0-2, 2-6,0-0, 4; mackey, 0-0, 0-1, 0-0, 0; scott, 2-5,  4-9, 0-0, 14; kelley, 2-5, 6-12, 1-1, 17; walkup, 0-0, 8-11, 0-4, 16; canty, 0;  faber, 0-0, 0-3, 0-0, 0; jewell, 0-0, 5-6, 0-0, 10; buikema, 0-0, 3-5, 0-0, 6;  forrest 0-0, 3-5, 6; rivas, 0-0, 0-2, 0-0, 0; garman, 0-0, 0-0, 2-2, 2.
explain to them the right way to act.
next up for pagosa is a road game friday at ignacio.
on friday, aug. 5, antonio pompa-baldi brings his piano mastery back to pagosa.
give liz marchand a call at 731-3391 for more information.
then there was the fledgling reporter who believed his copy sacrosanct and above need for revision.
however, on the other side of the  coin, there are lots of studies that show that burnout is a real problem and  usually affects kids who have been playing one sport for a long, long time on a  travel team.
we, as coaches or administrators, have made special rules to ensure all players have equal playing time and that every once in awhile you get a prodigy child who dominates.
just as parents once warned children to not accept gifts or offers of help  from total strangers, they, the police and the teachers, are now teaming up to  help children understand who might be watching them on computer links.
there are many points to consider when hiring a person to adequately  step in and fill lenore's shoes, and this is a decision that is not to be made  in haste.
board member bob scott also balked at the idea of increasing the mill levy.
there are some really interesting recipes in these books.
after-school activities at the elementary school for students in grades k-4 include art, spanish for kids, kids in the kitchen, creations, puppeteers, brain gym and fun friday.
help please we have two pleas for help from chamber members.
hopefully these meetings will evolve into a format that invites broader and deeper comment from those who live here and care about our national forests and wilderness "landscapes." cary ellis addict's plea dear editor: a dealer's suggestion bargains for control, the words used to influence the actions of others.
in that match, nobles got the win in a decision over jared jones of ignacio.
even with the boost, she said ticket prices pay for only a small portion of the cost of the concerts.
whether they fit well or not, we all wear "skins" like doctor, runner, poet, overachiever, alcoholic, child, lover and healer.
there will be a guarantee of $100 cash prize each for the best individual and best group entries.
tuesday, feb. 8, will feature the red shoes piano trio returning to entertain pagosans with a selection of classical music.
veteran's cornerveteran's corner non-service connected va pension plans explained andy fautheree sun comumnist non-service connected disability pension is a va benefit program that provides financial support to wartime veterans having limited income.
i would suggest that while it is helpful to understand the tenets of all faiths, that different faiths also have different and conflicting beliefs.
however, "buildings used principally for the sale of retail food are excepted from the term 'superstore.'"
the very best time to teach your youngster how to improve their play is immediately after the game; ideally, in the car ride on the way home while their game actions are still fresh in their mind.
high school students may apply.
the words are powerful but i am sure as a community we can overpower that expression with love and compassion.
" however, "it is not necessary for the (entity) to receive all of its revenue from external user fees.
christianity, by contrast, abandons all hope of acquiring "good karma," doing enough good works, or thinking enough good thoughts.
i would also like to invite other retired officers to do the same.
the finding of the jury in the federal civil rights case brought by larry tracks exactly with the conclusions reached at the time by gerald sawatzky as general counsel to the plpoa board of directors and myself as plpoa general manager.
accurate testing requires fasting 12 hours prior to test (drinking water will not affect test accuracy).
this event will be combined with other activities going on in conjunction  with winter fest.
says burchett, "archuleta county, as well as the state of colorado, has experienced a recent mild boost in economic growth during the latter part of 2004, and this gradual trend is anticipated to continue during 2005.
total fouls: p-10,  mv-8.
at least don't say that to me because i can always find you something  to do.
the rain we got just after the first of the year only made things worse.
one of its functions is to send signals to the brain to boost or curb  appetite.
decision - no trial.
pirate junior paul przybylski hit craig schutz in stride on the break to  tie, and the wolverines saw their last lead of the game at 5-4 after lee  ramsier hit one of two at the line.
pending smooth  execution of the job and cooperation from the sealant in curing, the courts  will be ready for use feb. 11.
meredith schaefer got a deuce for monte, but the writing was already on the  hardwood.
there is not a lot of time  involved, but the service you provide is invaluable.
what throws the grid off are kids who do not show up, and one team has six  players and the other team has more.
and she picked off two more rebounds in the period, giving her 10 for the game and the double-double she missed by one rebound the night before against monte vista.
wrestlebacks will follow the sixth-place  matches.
the fun events are only a part of our job here at the chamber; we do have the business portion of our job.
forrest answered a jumper from brendon anderson with a follow-up jam, chester hatton cut the lead back to four with two inside, then senior otis rand hit craig schutz for a trey to make it 15-8 at 3:25.
betty and her husband al run the blanco dove center for artists and  writers.
the amount payable under this program depends on the type and amount of  income the veteran and family members receive from other sources.
it is up to me to help myself but i will say what i feel is right to help you too.
understanding the risks and reducing them  through careful planning improves the chances for business success.
keshet replied, "again, you don't know who's watching.
looking for ideas for handmade valentines and  treats?
liberalism was defeated.
the goal is to produce an annual project that will promote and encourage  the work of local artists, showcase the artistic talent in pagosa springs,  raise money for the operations of the arts council and fill the need for a  calendar focusing on pagosa springs.
be a  part of the den.
"pagosa brats" are playing in the gym wednesdays 10 a.m.-noon and  could use some grandparents to hang out with them.
michael, who confessed to his crimes, was sentenced to 30 days in jail and intensive therapy.
business manager allen hughes cautioned the board that closing the medical center even for a short time would require significant start-up costs, including three or four months of operating capital while rebuilding a patient base and restocking medical supplies.
accurate testing requires fasting 12 hours prior to test (drinking water  will not affect test accuracy).
in addition to their biochemical influences, the location of fat cells  seems to be important.
if you are celebrating your  birthday next month, be sure to come in the last friday of the month to  celebrate.
questions addressed seem to orchestrate getting the answers they seek: 1.
it's easy and only takes a few moments to write a unique message to the people and/or pets in your life.
the company employs experts in site planning, park and trails planning, whitewater park planning and fish habitat and migration.
please, the election was last november.
scrapbooking 101 on thursday, feb. 10 starting at noon at joann guckert's  house.
jim sawicki jury jeopardy dear editor: judge jim denvir of archuleta county court needs to get his court in order.
wait until a quiet moment later in the evening, or the next day.
her current work with "skins" in particular and experimental theatre in general allows her the freedom to move her body, stretch her mind and express her instincts as a performer.
all leadership volunteers have been urged to attend or to call 264-3686 with commitment ideas that would continue the 24-year fiesta tradition.
get out, laugh a little and enjoy some of the  times that make pagosa a great place to live.
check out all posted project and club meeting dates at  www.coopext.colostate.edu/archuleta/calendar.htm landscape, garden show rock gardens, new and unusual trees, shrubs and fruit varieties, garden  "retreats," daylilies, waterwise gardens and much more.
now that the working group has agreed on recommendations, a schedule to put policies in place will ensue over the next several months.
following a first-round bye, armijo finished off a piedra vista wrestler in the second period.
the pagosa springs sun donates the space in the preview section and all the proceeds go to the humane society of pagosa springs which then helps the homeless animals of archuleta county.
martinez got the initial takedown of the match then, with less than a minute elapsed in the first period, put the falcon's shoulders down.
time to saddle up yer best-liked nag and trot off into the "best of colorado" and check some cattle brands, sheriff tom richards.
piedra vista took second with  136.5 points; the pirates were right behind with 136.
his wife lillian and his children cared for him until his death at home.
in a postgame interview, head coach jim shaffer reflected on his pagosa team's effort in the win.
many years later helen's daughter sent the recipe to the dear abby column.
the team's performance at the regional tournament last year has to figure in any assessment since the pirates finished last in the iml last season, yet won the regional event.
to  assume conflicting claims can both be true is to deny truth itself.
"it is designed for the person who wants to learn how to use their new digital camera and the photo options on a computer as well as those who want to improve their digital photo skills.
cost for the consultant will be in the range of $100,000-$150,000.
twice i bought lard, but that was as far as it got.
we would love to hear from you regarding suggestions for artsline.
i would like to thank the board of directors, old and new, for not kicking me out of the meeting and for having patience with my first attempt at a major informational session with them.
a draft of the "big box" task force's summary of current findings is available for review at www.townofpagosasprings.com.
safer living (senior assistance for everyday respite) provides homecare services to senior citizens within the comfort and security of their own homes.
"you can't stay open past march 31 as you are now."
there is little in the public domain that should be kept secret, yet we are repeatedly faced with the actions of politicos who would enact laws and use existing laws to keep the public from knowing as much as possible, keeping themselves, their cohorts and their interests out of the public eye.
"our finish was encouraging, considering we didn't have those guys  with us," said janowsky.
"if someone indicates online that they want to meet you," capistrant said, "ask yourself 'why'?, and 'what could you do for the person asking for the meeting?" you should feel threatened, he said, "and you should let someone know if the advance is made ... your teacher, your parent or us, the police." both he and keshet noted that among the many online threats to children, i.e., exposure to pornography, harassment, and cyber stalking, there is a more dangerous threat - cyber grooming.
for example, grandma simpson said this: "pretty in the cradle homely at the table homely in the cradle pretty at the table.
the town has  arranged for some land and now the building fund must start.
if you see them around town, congratulate them or commiserate with them.
in so doing, researchers hope to uncover more effective ways to treat obesity.
it is taxpayers' money that is spent.
executive board your executive directors for 2005 are toby karlquist, president; jessie formwalt, vice president; and new kid on the block jody cromwell, secretary-treasurer.
we have lots of ideas, but we need the participation of our members to make these plans successful.
stop by and pick up your registration form today at the extension office.
a youngster who is a top athlete among his  or her peers at age 8 is clearly destined to be a star when they're 18.
would they start their own businesses?
with this being the 20th year for the rally, we really would like to see a spectacular event.
in fact, they were a rebound short of having the first double-double of  the year.
friends of the performing arts or fopa is meeting regularly to discuss plans for such a venture.
we are not attempting to curry favor with god by doing good things, rather christ moves us and enables us to live a life pleasing in his sight so that his glory might be seen in our lives.
contact psac at 264-5020 to sign up for her workshops.
if the poor were to be able to earn more with less effort would they just blow it or would they invest and save it?
we  completely depend on the good works (righteousness) of christ.
we must say "when we will ..." and "we always will ..." i hope this community develops a plan for a rehabilitation site for all our kids' sakes.
if there is rental property or farm income (past a 1099-g ) a paid professional taxpayer should be consulted.
while there, you can also enter the super bowl race, 11 a.m.-1 p.m. you will even have time to ski and then make it home to watch the game.
shaffer matched a trey from monte's curtis barbosa with a three-point play, then jones and pagosa sophomore casey hart traded two apiece to make it 74-24 at 3:40.
outdoorsoutdoors division of wildlife sets hearings on wolf control plans the colorado division of wildlife will conduct a series of open house meetings around the state through mid-february to gather citizen input on the initial recommendations of the colorado wolf management working group.
why didn't they know to explain things about good touch and bad touch to their child starting as an infant?
there is a range of sponsorships, all helping to support the reach for the peaks organization run by liz marchand.
" capital projects this year's capital improvement fund has one project budgeted - the extension of an existing sewer line "approximately 4,400 lineal feet" to the extension building at the county fairgrounds.
romine  lost his first match to greg kinney of bayfield then put together two  consecutive pins - over competitors from dove creek and mancos - to secure  third place.
piedra vista took second with 136.5 points; the pirates were right behind with 136.
appointments may be scheduled via the sign-in sheet in the cafeteria or on  a space-available basis during the thursday sessions, beginning at 9 a.m. today  in the arts council room.
the first phase of restoration, from jj's upstream restaurant to the pedestrian bridge, a distance of about a mile and a half was completed in 1994.
if you are interested in "renting" an advertising slot for a year for $50, contact doug trowbridge or myself for more information.
for as little as $6 you can have your own classified ad(s) telling everyone in your life how great they are.
he got his start on a small daily in indiana and one of his  first assignments was as wire editor.
the park crew will cut the trees to the size chad haspels needs to start the work.
casey schutz hit sophomore caleb ormonde on the break for pagosa's first deuce of the fourth, then przybylski and hilsabeck took turns at the foul line to make it 69-19 with 6:04 to play.
the discussion leaders said parents should be aware of the possibility  their child is being "groomed" if he or she: - spends excessive time on the internet, especially late at night; - is secretive about cyber friends, or how they spend their time on the  internet; and - withdraws from family and friends, seems depressed or unresponsive.
identification as a county  resident is required.
and so, at the half, lynch called on his seniors to step it up.
the talk is aimed at photographers at all skill levels and is appropriate for both film and digital equipment.
- i will tell an adult about anyone who scares me or threatens me or tells me to keep a secret or make a promise not to tell.
gen. william palmer provided the answer.
in conclusion, beckstead stated there were neither major discrepancies in the 2003 audit, nor any disagreements with management concerning audit findings.
tickets are now available at most banks, moonlight books, the ski and bow rack , and the community center.
also, people who do not have statements from brokerage companies (1099b) but who have all their other statements should come in early as well.
this benefit is getting  more popular with businesses, so don't miss your chance.
clinkenbeard pointed out there has been a modest increase in the price of the tickets this year.
archuelta county victims assistance served 72 clients dealing with sexual assault in 2003.
in the position of principal cellist she has played in the florida state symphony orchestra, the showcase chamber ensemble, and the san juan symphony.
her southwest "women of the wind" series in originals and prints is well known, is seen on the princess cruise line and hangs in many private collections.
members include livestock producers, wildlife advocates, sportsmen, local government officials and wildlife biologists.
mcteer is concertmaster of the san juan symphony and assistant professor of violin and viola at fort lewis college.
your help can make a difference in untold numbers of lives.
with this growth many of the traditional uses of water in the watershed are being threatened.
if you are at least 55, come  in and take advantage of the great discounts offered around town.
membership is only $3 a year and renewable every january.
hockett got the first takedown and let quinlan up for a point.
regional drought classifications issued this week by the u.s. department of agriculture indicate archuleta county now qualifies as "abnormally dry," an upgrade from the former label of "in moderate drought.
the trio has performed throughout the region to delighted audiences, and was described as "red hot" by the durango herald.
call immediately if interested.
most of the time i am happy and glorious that i am alive and still know my own name.
remember reception keep in mind that we are celebrating with lenore and gil sunday, feb. 27,  from 2-4 p.m. in the commons area of the high school.
outside the glare given off by battles over modifications to tabor some of our elected officials are back at a task they undertake every year - attempting, bit by little bit, to further erode our ability to obtain the information we need to operate as members of a free society and in a functional representative democracy.
secondly, during the heat of games, you have to set a positive  example of how to behave because kids watch carefully to see how you react when  things aren't going your way.
what's more, leptin may work against people trying to lose  weight because, as a person loses weight, the body tends to release less  leptin, potentially contributing to a boost in appetite and reduction in the  number of calories burned at a given activity level.
services offered are anything from homemaking chores (cleaning, running errands, meal preparation) to outdoor work, to handyman services, to personal care, to in-home assessments where they help coordinate care with health professionals.
ask monte vista's tabitha gutierrez, a 5-8 senior guard and one of the  leading scorers in the state (159 total) coming into the san luis valley  pirates' game friday in pagosa springs.
talking to parents and talking to kids.
as the investigation continued, carmen learned her daughter remembered assaults going back to at least age 3.
hockett  got the first takedown and let quinlan up for a point.
friday, feb. 11 - qi gong, 10 a.m.; reflexology, 1 p.m.; senior board  meeting, 1 p.m. menu friday, feb. 4 - beef stroganoff, green beans, rice, beet salad, mixed  fruit and whole wheat bread.
in particular, i wish to note that the legal counsel received by the board and me from gerald sawatzky was superlative, and i commend him for his role is righting the injustice done larry.
a 20-use punch pass and a 12-use punch pass will go to the second- and third-place person, respectively.
the entries must represent pagosa country (landscape, monuments, etc.).
the other reserve, alaina garman, scored two from the line.
there is no age restriction; but preference is given to seniors who request it.
or she had with a coach, parent and fellow participant.
the reason to let the falcon up?
they have employed tons of people at bootjack over the years not to mention all of the lumber, concrete, gravel and construction materials they buy locally.
there are good reasons the democrats are having trouble winning elections.
other event sponsors are lining up.
the pirates had plenty, getting double-figure scoring efforts from jordan shaffer, caleb forrest, craig schutz and casey schutz.
it was a few of these boxes i got into last snow day, and it was in these boxes i came across all the notes about grandma simpson.
jim miller and crew will hopefully be on the pond after this front passes.
join the class and be surprised how colors or a simple line will define a  subject.
jewell, the 6-2 senior center for the pirates, after six first half points, erupted for 15 in the second half and a game-high 21.
get your teams together now for this exciting, adult league.
following came ace hardware/circle t lumber, the banks of colorado and of the san juans, citizens bank, the corner store, edward jones investments, first inn, ponderosa do it best, rio grande savings and loan, tequilas and aspen village.
he was honorably discharged in 1945 at the end of the war.
"our finish was encouraging, considering we didn't have those guys with us," said janowsky.
sessions are held each thursday through april 14.
what can be done about it?
by placing the building in caretaker status - paying only the bills necessary to prevent degradation of the existing structure and offering no services - the district would come out with about $200,000 in 2005.
all players, no matter what level skill level they have, can gain from the experience.
"it went almost like i thought it would," he said.
that is what dealers want addicts to believe.
we  are weather watching, to figure out a time and day to resurface the pond.
the latest acronym in the fat-study industry is neat which translates into non-exercise thermogenesis.
he was born to frank and effie eoff in snyder, texas, on may 6, 1920, and moved to a family homestead in 1934 in pietown, n.m. he married zoe caudill in 1941 in albuquerque before enlisting in the navy.
"it sets the tone for everything we do, and tonight we got a lot of good looks and easy baskets in transition because we stepped it up at the defensive end." regarding the following night's matchup with bayfield, "coming into the season i would have said they were the league favorites," said shaffer.
if it is  right, then no amount of good works or good thoughts will ever be acceptable in  the sight of god since he has already sacrificed his son to accomplish the  salvation of mankind.
help a fellow veteran who may  be going in the same direction to the same va facility.
lunch will be served.
armijo also made short work of two opponents on his way to the title.
in fact, being a good sport starts with you - his or her parent.
to reduce those services would be "patient detrimental," he said.
shrove tuesday supper at st. patrick's st. patrick's episcopal church, 225 south pagosa boulevard, is hosting a shrove tuesday pancake and sausage supper tuesday, feb. 8, from 5-7:30 p.m.
nobody has ever produced a scientific study that  shows that having your child play on a travel team at a very early age is going  to guarantee athletic success down the road.
most of these can be checked out as well.
" as far as the pirates' chances go, janowsky is optimistic that a number of the local wrestlers can place in the top four and move on.
she had been invited to pagosa springs to give a free presentation about the threat.
consolation semifinals are set for 1 p.m. followed by matches for third, fourth, fifth and sixth places.
the team score at ignacio was affected by the loss of three starters from the lineup - justin moore (171), palmer (135) and martinez (215).
we still have silver foxes den sweatshirts for sale at the senior center.
karl isberg field of flakes and free thinkers by richard walter staff writer there are many characters in the journalism profession.
prior to the meet, coach dan janowsky predicted the final result would depend on the bonus point factor - on the additional points scored with major decisions, technical falls and pins.
there will be a guarantee of $100 cash prize each for the  best individual and best group entries.
call sky gabel at 731-2202 for information and to sign up for the meeting.
twenty-nine degrees below zero this morning was a sample of pagosa temperature this winter.
make your legal appeal on your time.
eugene witkowski community newscommunity news red shoe piano trio performs in pagosa feb. 8 by musetta wollenweber special to the preview the red shoes piano trio is in concert 7 p.m. tuesday, feb. 8, at restoration fellowship hall, 264 village drive, with proceeds to benefit the silver foxes den as well as the fort lewis scholarship fund.
i think the reason they did not kick me out  was because my right hand, morna trowbridge, was so complete in her  informational packets that we provide to the board.
sometimes the claim  is also made that unless we understand all religions we cannot understand our  own as fully as we might.
john kerry's daily vacillating was frightening to most americans.
that was part of the message about the quiet threat of childhood sexual assault lisa carmen wanted kiwanis club members and guests to hear friday night at a public presentation at the community center.
"this list includes everything from peeping toms to indecent exposure to sexual assault on a child," she said.
when i look back on the meet i think, but for a couple matches, we exceeded our expectations."
an older community, known as animas  city, straddled the animas river north of today's durango, roughly north of  today's mercy hospital.
"what seems to be a restricted conversation between you and your skateboarding buddy," keshet said, "is anything but private.
so put on your creative wool cap and give doug a call to get your entry form.
albuquerque vamc phone number is (800) 465-8262.
pagosa sophomores kerry joe hilsabeck and jordan shaffer hooked up for two on the break, then przybylski fed forrest and craig schutz for two apiece and the home team led 21-8 at 1:27.
those of us who wish to make informed choices must demand our representatives reject law that encourages secrecy in the public sector and, in their day-to-day doings, that they kick open the door at every opportunity to let the light shine in.
during world war ii, he served in the sea bees in the pacific theatre as a  welder.
they, as responsible citizens, appeared at or before 8:30 a.m., only to wait and stare at blank courthouse walls over an hour while judge and attorneys met to decide to go, or not to go, to trial.
this is a class for property owners interested in overseeing their own homebuilding project here in southwestern colorado.
some were making over $400,000 a year and yet it took anywhere from $8 to $20 a month to feed a person.
flc workshops fort lewis college office of extended studies is offering a bevy of classes this winter.
psac calendar all psac classes and workshops are held in the arts and craft space at the  community center, unless otherwise noted.
the company will also work with the town on a proposed pedestrian bridge near the town park gazebo.
it has nothing to do with prettying yourself up.
forrest topped pagosa's scoring column for the evening with 17 points, followed by shaffer with a dozen and craig and casey schutz with twin totals of 11.
veteran housebound is $12,419 and married, $15,566.
that stagecoach travel ceased as soon as the railroad reached  durango.
in the last  minute of the half she tickled twine twice from beyond the arc and pagosa had a  38-20 lead at the break.
microbiology - sarah smith first and anna ball, second.
carmen's goal is to take "the quiet threat" to the national  level.
remember, these are the maximum amount of allowable gross incomes as outlined above.
permanent disability additionally, the veteran must have a disability that va evaluates as permanent and total.
the pirate scored six points  with the pin at the 3:22 mark.
one day a copy editor found an obviously errant "fact" in his  copy and changed it.
lewis scholarship fund.
we argue there are very few matters that should be handled in executive session - it is an option exercised too often.
but, some observers say, ignacio may be better than the record indicates,  with a young freshman pacing them on good nights and some veterans beginning to  come into their own.
charley can be reached at 946-0700.
the cost of displaying your brochures at our reader board in the airport is $50 per month.
monday, feb. 7 - tuna noodle casserole, mixed vegetables, zucchini, whole  wheat roll and peaches.
- the same hairstyle lasts for years, maybe decades.
only one small detail needs to be noted for this event: no power tools for you sculptors.
february displays have you read any good romance books lately?
" such meetings, he said, are the predator's signature - having successfully identified you.
blame it on low  neat.
working both sides of  the deep lane, she poured in six on three straight off high post screens by  emily buikema.
craig schutz and mccoy traded baskets, then the pirates got the last four of the frame via break-aways from shaffer and hilsabeck; pagosa was up 50-21 after three.
consolation semifinals are set for 1 p.m. followed by matches for third,  fourth, fifth and sixth places.
the new community bible church at pagosa was dedicated last sunday with a  large crowd in attendance.
the rev. sinkford received a presidential scholarship award and graduated cum laude from harvard university.
generally the veteran must have 90 days or more of service, of which at  least one day must have occurred during a period of war, and the veteran must  have been discharged under conditions other than dishonorable.
the team score at ignacio was affected by the loss of three starters from  the lineup - justin moore (171), palmer (135) and martinez (215).
a light dinner will be served (at no charge).
attorneys not prepared?
also meet photo judge howard rachlin  from durango who is also hosting a seminar 9 a.m.-noon at the community center.
rounding out the board of directors are angie gayhart, scott asay, tony gilbert, patti renner, don mckeehan and judy james.
silence, carmen said, is one of the major problems in issues of sexual  assault.
business newsbusiness news biz briefs naifa slates tuesday session in durango the national association of insurance and financial advisors - southwest colorado, will hold its monthly meeting tuesday in durango.
the predator will seek clues like the kind of board, references to 'new wheels,' favorite colors or reference to a favorite place to use the board.
compensation is $10- $25 per game depending on age group  and experience.
we have had some  spectacular entries in the past and this is a great location for people to see  your creations.
for 2005 the pension amount for a single veteran is $10,162.
the board spent several months in 2004 in negotiations with local physicians to contract for services with no success because of the financial woes.
"in most cases, that's absolutely the worst time to critique your child!
and according to the latest forecasts provided by the national weather service office in grand junction, after an expected lull in wet weather today and tomorrow, further drought relief may arrive this weekend.
social services closed the daycare facility.
"you're talking clients, we're talking community," pruitt said, reminding hughes that six members of the board ran on a platform that focused on ending competition between public and private health care clinics.
explain to them the right  way to act.
he is also survived by seven grandchildren, five great-grandchildren and two sisters.
shaffer put pagosa on top for good with a put-back, then casey schutz hit a pull-up jumper which mccoy matched with two in the paint and the pirates led 8-7 with 25 seconds left in the period.
it is important to note that lynch started only three of his regular starters in the game, and substituted freely in all but the third period when the seniors put on their show.
come in to the center today and pick up your application.
currently, should there be an emergency,  someone is dispatched from la plata county.
przybylski inked eight assists to lead pagosa while hilsabeck added six  dishes to the win, which pushed the pirates' overall record to 13-1, 3-0 in the  iml.
" adult basketball our 2005 adult basketball leagues starts this month.
board member jerry valade said a total of $200,000 has now been extended to the district from the bank with the promise it could be recouped once tax checks reach district coffers.
let our visitors know about your business even if we are not here to sing your praises.
james layne walker thank you to all of you who have shared food, hats and prayers.
the town passed a similar measure jan. 4, extending a prior ban on retail stores over 18,000 square feet and grocery stores over 55,000 square feet through may 27.
they are weak in support of the military and they can not be trusted with our national security.
the athletes are expected to be on the mat friday as the regional  tournament opens at monte vista.
features sexual assault danger continues to be underreported by tess noel baker
everyone is invited.
as the prevalence of obesity in america approaches epidemic proportions, researchers are scrambling to learn more about how the body stores fat, how fat tissues affect body systems and the role body fat plays in determining one's risk of chronic diseases.
mr. eoff left gallup in 1994 and moved to aztec, n.m.
be aware of internet dangers
it did have some coal deposits.
book donations we were glad to receive donations during the past week that will enhance our collection from john mathis, ann pongrantz, alice kelley, judy lynch, john and sandy applegate, jennifer hedrick, judy horky, ethel rasnic, jerry archuleta and family, and paul matlock.
full-court pressure by the pirates led to a layin from casey schutz, a reverberating throw-down from forrest, then a three-point play from casey schutz and pagosa led 41-15 at 4:44.
understand it is not fair to hold them back from  enjoying the game.
entry deadline is march 15.
prepaying at moonlight books is appreciated or you can pay at the door.
the denver & rio grande crossed cumbres pass in 1880 and reached durango in 1881.
after bayfield's brad kujath tallied a final deuce for the visitors, pirate  sophomore adam trujillo put home an offensive board and the books closed with  pagosa on top 62-32.
tickets may be obtained at the chamber, the senior center or at the plaid pony.
it  is not our efforts, but god's perfect efforts to redeem his people which is our  sure and certain hope.
one bill would make financial investment information related to police and  fire pension funds confidential.
both palmer and martinez have won 20 or more matches this year.
no one wants to believe it  can happen to them.
" each first-place winner, including all members of first place team entries, will receive $20 checks from pagosa spring rotary.
the dow's open house meetings on the wolf working group's initial recommendations will take place 7-9 p.m., jan. 31-feb. 17.
tickets  are only $6 for seniors and students and $8 for adults in advance.
durango became known to many as the  smelter city.
the relay needs people to help with team recruitment, food services, event logistics and much more.
i get to see what great businesses we have here in our community.
her work feels like an elegy for vanished potential, feminine wisdom and the tenuous connection between human and earth.
to make tickets to one of these events a gift for your valentine, visit the chamber of commerce in downtown pagosa springs or call them at 264-2360 pay by check or credit card (mastercard or visa) before feb. 11 and arrangements will be made to get you an attractive gift certificate by feb. 14.
county audit finally submitted to state
j.f. whittaker, u.s. deputy collector, is a pagosa springs visitor today to assist fortunate taxpayers in filing their income tax returns.
from 1881 until about 1895, that stagecoach route led from amargo to pagosa springs by what became later known as edith.
we need to know who does what, and for how much, if we are to judge who  is overpaid or who earns too little for the services they provide.
pirate wrestlers end regular season; regional tournament next up by karl isberg staff writer when you compete in a tough league, against a tough team, in a dual meet that will affect the league standings, the bonus points weigh heavy on the outcome.
" america was built and forged by people like david and carol.
goals include: making the river channel's appearance more natural, adding put-in and take-out points for boaters, improving structure for fishing habitat from the pedestrian bridge to apache street and diverting enough water from loch's ditch to enhance the wetlands between 6th street and hot springs boulevard.
entry directions: submit slides, photo or jpeg, e-mail (psac@centurytel.net).
the performance is directed and choreographed by kathryn moller, professor of theatre and women's studies at fort lewis college, and is based on the poetry and sculpture of artist elizabeth ingraham.
addicted people suggest there is a remedy for control.
in 1776 he wrote: "this great nation was founded by christians on the gospel of jesus christ." thomas jefferson wrote on the front of his well-worn bible: "i am a disciple of the doctrines of jesus.
both palmer  and martinez have won 20 or more matches this year.
there have been no reported instances of predator contact here so far, capistrant said in answer to another query, "but we believe it will come.
if you are unaware of this program but think you might qualify please come in to ask us about it.
beef cattle symposium the 23rd annual beef cattle symposium will take place feb. 17 in hesperus.
there is an interim plan in place that is working well.
i also  hope that you will be able to give a little or a lot to the seeds of learning  campaign.
appointments may be scheduled via the sign-in sheet in the cafeteria or on a space-available basis during the thursday sessions, beginning at 9 a.m. today in the arts council room.
he was 84 and had been battling  lung cancer for six months.
kids 16 and under are free and will compete separately for very nice ice fishing related prizes.
the athletes are expected to be on the mat friday as the regional tournament opens at monte vista.
whitney howard and rheanna moe each had a deuce for bayfield, shaw and moe adding single free throws, freshman alexis pommier chipping in a pair from the stripe.
and he certainly had several opportunities to see his shadow.
behind 49 combined points from junior craig schutz and senior caleb  forrest, the hometown pirates cruised to a 77-30 win, upping their season  record to 12-1 and intermountain league mark to 2-0.
so stop the hating and the bashing and "love thy neighbor.
if you would like to register for classes or need more information contact the archuleta education center at 264-2835.
"assisting with the american cancer society relay for life helped me feel like i was doing something to combat this insidious disease."
she was previously an assistant professor of piano at eastern washington university in spokane, wash. campi has performed and adjudicated throughout north america, and has given lecture recitals for such organizations as the national music teachers association.
no schedule c with inventory or depreciation.
her southwest "women of the wind" series  in originals and prints is well known, is seen on the princess cruise line and  hangs in many private collections.
pagosa springs actress, performer, teacher, wife and mother felicia meyer left for new york saturday to, through the medium of experimental theatre, radically examine the skins she wears and to ask a new york city audience the question: "who taught me to want what i want?" meyer along with a troupe of other professionals, students and alumni from fort lewis college are part of a production entitled "skins" that will run for 10 days at the renowned off-broadway experimental theatre club la mama.
wednesday, feb. 9 - canasta, 1 p.m. thursday, feb. 10 - durango trip.
this board is where we promote events and hang community flyers, and it is a great after-hours location for our visitors to receive information.
she watched as the actress pulled individual hairs into perfect position around her face and didn't move her head and neck until the scene was through.
his fine art photography can be viewed at the image counts gallery and frame shop where it illustrates his continuing love affair with nature, nurtured by the variety of moods and emotions that are expressed in her handiwork digital photo seminars bruce andersen will lead a two-part seminar in digital photography called digital basics.
armijo built a 6-3 first period lead, taking atencio down then letting him  up to set up another takedown.
this brings the total snowfall for the  winter, to date, to 348 inches, and there is sure to be more.
currently she manages her own publishing company, the hi slade publishing company.
july 24 - psac home and garden tour.
this  service is offered via irs/aarp trained and certified volunteers who reside in  pagosa.
business news biz briefs naifa slates tuesday session in durango the national association of insurance and financial advisors - southwest  colorado, will hold its monthly meeting tuesday in durango.
board members and audience members alike took exception to the idea of reducing ems.
it is  an intermediate watercolor workshop with the theme "seasons in  poetry."
cost is $5 for contest entrants, $10 for all others.
finally, in 1892, they issued the "trinity decision" in which they unanimously stated that the united states is a christian nation.
25 years ago taken from sun files of feb. 7, 1980 snowfall for the month of january on wolf creek pass was heavy with a total of 164 inches in january of this year.
you can make lots of money, earn scholarships and win trips to fabulous locations through fairs such as these.
"if they were working together and had a common goal, you guys would probably have one of the best health care systems in the area."
head coach jim shaffer was pleased with his team's performance during the win.
adiponectin helps insulin move sugar from the bloodstream into the body's cells where it can be used either for fuel or stored.
racquetball, wally-ball and basketball players -  please be patient and use this down time to do something else.
i can open a door by  myself.
if you end up with eight players per team, and the coaches use the mandatory substitution grid (to insure all players have equal playing time), all teams should be pretty fairly matched.
craig schutz and mccoy traded baskets, then the pirates got the last four  of the frame via break-aways from shaffer and hilsabeck; pagosa was up 50-21  after three.
cost is $5 for contest entrants and $10 for those not entered.
every dollar counts for this first step to a bigger and better facility for children.
before you can even get the details of the latest diet internalized, there's another new one on the market.
discovering that fat cells are capable of  sending signals to the body and learning how the body stores fat are just the  tip of the iceberg.
seems to have less influence on the development of chronic diseases than fat  stored deep in the abdomen or near the heart and liver.
no corporate returns will be completed.
it takes work and dedication to be a part of narcotics anonymous and other forms of therapy.
married  veteran a and a pension is $20,099.
with respect to the definition of superstores, they are described within the resolution as "any building, or combination of buildings, intended to be used principally for the purpose of retail sales and marketing ... which exceed 18,000 square feet in size."
amount for each child is the same as above, $1,734.
that accords with  fact or reality 3.
which should be your fervent and paramount prayer.
"that's the beauty of this community," she said.
(we saw this at the last deis meeting on the proposed village at wolf creek).
library news interim director duties being shared by barb draper preview columnist since lenore's retirement there have been a number of library staffing  questions.
how we pick teams every year it seems we need to educate parents, grandparents, aunts, and  uncles about how we pick teams in our youth sports programs.
general fund general fund revenues for fiscal year 2005 are estimated at $7,474,181, an increase of $865,109, or roughly 13 percent, over estimated revenues for 2004.
the youngster will remember  the relationship he
your contribution to seeds of learning is deductible on your federal tax return to the full extent of the law.
certain ideas could hurt what people in these organizations fight so hard to accomplish to help other people like them.
lynch converted a pair from the stripe where kelley also notched three to  go with a final field goal that kept her in double figures (10 for the fourth  consecutive game.
responding to a question from lynch regarding the status of the 2004 audit, "if the records are in a satisfactory condition, then we will meet the deadline," said beckstead.
dee butler was here jan. 26 to present "hair and skin care."
the railroad was probably built primarily to haul out ores produced in the  region.
"this list includes everything from peeping toms to indecent exposure  to sexual assault on a child," she said.
with wildfires, house fires and storms always a threat, we need to create  our own disaster team here in pagosa.
test your skill on snowshoes  or just watch; it sounds like a good time.
the custom was that women changed the trim on their hats until they found a new one they liked.
just as they need to be taught about physical safety in the real world, we  need to teach them to be safer in the online world.
" the solid waste fund total expense budget for 2005 is $650,179, representing an increase of roughly $227,000 over last year's budget, "but only represents an increase of $27,308 from the fiscal year 2003 expenses.
she also holds a master's degree in film directing and has worked in documentary filmmaking, with such groups as the discovery channel, a&e and the history channel.
"it seems to me the key to this situation is that none of the medical groups are working together," escude said.
craig schutz converted an assist from forrest to open the third, mccoy countered with two, then pirate senior otis rand put back an offensive board and przybylski nailed a trey to give pagosa a 34-15 edge at 6:15.
the pirate scored six points with the pin at the 3:22 mark.
three were slain  the same day.
scott kept a hot hand,  drilling her third trey and a deuce, jessica lynch added an 8-foot jumper and  emily buikema and caitlin forrest each had a deuce.
cupid classified deadline is feb. 7 by annette foor special to the preview
centauri forfeited at 140.
for a married veteran the pension is $13,309.
won't someone please help?
- either the suffering and death of our lord is adequate payment for humanity's sins, or it is not.
maybe it is because the poor don't want to work?
biographies, civil rights background books and other information about black america are located in the other display case.
campi was the pianist for the taliesin piano trio which participated in the national endowment for the arts/chamber music america rural residency in blytheville, ark., and which founded the concert series, "composers, in their own words."
i will keep a calendar of  who is going where to coordinate this important program.
turnovers: 14 each team.
"don't use any form of your real name as part of a sign-on," he  said.
tuesday, feb. 8 - ham with white beans, broccoli, parsleyed carrots, orange juice and cornbread.
if you would like to help in the battle against cancer, please plan to attend the organizational meeting feb. 9.
ya know, that surly old sea-dog was right on target.
" - you can drop by to see a friend without having to bring a little gift.
they always want more of our money.
one such was a well-educated young man who was from a long line of plumbing and hardware store operators.
raul palmer met a rough customer at 135 - jacob sheridan, arguably one of the state's best at the weight.
our program is attempting to make it fair for all young  athletes.
editorialeditorial lots of light, please now the colorado legislature is back in session one issue domi-nates the scene - the budget problem faced by the state, the need to deal with revenue and spending constraints that have a stranglehold on state government's ability to deal with basic concerns.
and one more great advertising space is laplata county airport near durango.
individuals with income from wages, or 1099's, social security,  pensions, interest, dividends and some stock sales are eligible.
- if another guy shows up at the party in the same outfit, you might become lifelong friends.
this does not mean christians do not do good works, but our motivation for  doing them is entirely different from all other religions in the world.
peer assistance network the colorado council on the arts has relaunched the peer assistance network (pan) and maryo ewell is helping to administer the program.
total  fouls: p-21, b-16.
entry fee: free to psac members; $25 for non-psac members which covers up  to two entries and includes a one year membership.
june 23 - 2005 psac annual meeting.
tuesdays, feb. 15 and 22  in the community center.
it is not our law-keeping, but christ's on which we depend.
he is an orchestra and choral conductor, and also composes for piano and organ.
the iml is strong, but all the teams there will have some good individuals.
"creatine, as well as other nutritional supplements such as andro and ephedra, that are sold in health stores have been proven to be safe for kids; otherwise, it would be illegal for the stores to sell these products.
at the door prices will be $8 and $10.
as soon as the railroad crossed cumbres, two stagecoach lines connected the railroad terminus with the durango area, passing through pagosa springs enroute.
you may research  the fyi income 35 colorado child care tax credit or give lynne bridges a call  at 264-5513.
the pagosa lakes property owners association will be sponsoring a second  winter perch tournament saturday, feb. 12, on lake pagosa.
help those coming to pagosa who are waiting for their luggage plan their time here.
i picked him up with a hand in each arm pit, carried him across the newsroom and sat him down in his own chair with directions for him to stay until told to move.
in fact, being armed with information only works if it's shared with others.
there, the coaches can pick and choose players, as well as the amount of time an individual child will play in any given game.
spend an hour or so a week to brighten up a senior's life.
this event is sponsored by the pagosa lakes recreation center.
sometimes, i get very depressed just thinking about the amount of work i am going to miss.
the entry fee will be $20 in advance and $25 the day of the event.
it is no longer the strange looking man lurking in the alley children need to be aware of.
make your check payable to humane society of pagosa springs.
the pagosa lakes property owners association will be sponsoring a second winter perch tournament saturday, feb. 12, on lake pagosa.
they have a network of advisors around the state, seasoned arts managers  representing a great breadth of expertise.
- you can leave the motel bed unmade.
topics will include downloading, working the image file to liven up the photo, and preparing the photos for screen viewing and printing.
"creatine, as well as other nutritional supplements such as andro and  ephedra, that are sold in health stores have been proven to be safe for kids;  otherwise, it would be illegal for the stores to sell these products.
the county man who plows the bus turnaround at colo. 151 and old  gallegos road; 2.
e-mail ronin@centurytel.net back off dear editor: last time i checked we still live in america.
the members of the trio - mikylah myers mcteer, violin; katherine jetter tischhauser, cello; and lisa campi, piano - are currently faculty members at fort lewis college where they maintain active teaching and performing careers.
challenge your friends and family to test your will power by pledging a per  pound amount.
it's open to all ages and abilities.
otis snooks of piedra recently collected $70 bounty from the denver post for killing four mountain lions, two full grown and two cubs.
the average low was 19.
- your belly usually hides your big hips.
tischhauser did her primary musical training with selma gokcen, andrew luchansky and lubomir georgiev.
and he certainly had several  opportunities to see his shadow.
in addition to the fun, spectators will be happy to know that as the harlem ambassadors play their magic around the country and internationally to help raise funds for non-profits, they also seek to foster racial harmony and promote the values of staying in school and staying off drugs.
tickets are $12 for the general public and $10 for seniors with a silver foxes den membership card and children 12 and under.
ok, enough lecturing, here are some more great times and information for  you to plan your life by.
the program is free and confidential and is provided for low and moderate  income people.
the trio has performed throughout the region to delighted audiences.
monte no match for hometown pirates in 77-30 blowou by tom carosello staff writer it still qualifies as a basketball rivalry, but the showdown between pagosa  springs and monte vista has been rather one-sided lately.
recovering addicts like me should have hope for redemption and forgiveness.
game time is 7 p.m. summary scoring: forrest 9-19, 3-5, 22; craig schutz 9-14, 8-9, 27; casey schutz  1-4, 2-2, 5; hilsabeck 0-2, 2-2, 2; przybylski 0-1, 1-2, 1; shaffer 4-8, 1-2,  9; rand 3-6, 0-1, 6; ormonde 1-1, 0-0 2; hart 1-2, 0-0 2; trujillo 0-2, 1-2 1;  martinez 0-0, 0-0, 0; richey 0-0, 0-0, 0; abeyta 0-0, 0-0 0.
"i just don't think we have enough money to do what we want to do here," he said.
kelley, meanwhile, was driving inside and dishing off - or scoring herself - as she led an 18-point pagosa spree with three deuces.
colorado residents for all of 2004  (brief absences ok), who are over 65 or a qualifying widow(er) over 58, with  income less than $11,000 single or $14,700 married, and who pay property taxes  or rent and heat are usually eligible.
it takes a lot of nerve to get up and coach in front of everyone, without benefit of experience and extensive basketball knowledge.
by tom carosello staff writer archuleta county commissioners agreed tuesday to extend a moratorium on superstore development through aug. 1.
a 32-use punch pass will be awarded to the person who has  lost the most pounds.
when they were younger, they played a variety of sports, depending on the  season.
referees-umpires the department continues to seek individuals interested in officiating  youth and adult basketball, youth baseball and/or adult softball.
book donations we were glad to receive donations during the past week that will enhance  our collection from john mathis, ann pongrantz, alice kelley, judy lynch, john  and sandy applegate, jennifer hedrick, judy horky, ethel rasnic, jerry  archuleta and family, and paul matlock.
pagosa sophomore adam trujillo  added a late free throw to make it 77-27.
we need  someone to fill our tuesday out-of-town route to deliver a meal to our seniors  who can't get out.
come hear her talk at 1 p.m. check out the fourth annual aarp-redfeather snowshoe festival at devils'  thumb ranch (two miles west of fraser off u.s. 40).
pass or fail, these bills, and more to come, are a sign there is no lack of  energy among solons when it comes to finding ways, however small, of secreting  information.
with determination, perseverance and a realistic goal, weight loss is a  doable undertaking.
"we'll just have to play to our strengths and keep trying to improve  on the things we already do well," he concluded.
jewell, the 6-2 senior center for the pirates, after six first half points,  erupted for 15 in the second half and a game-high 21.
producers of ores needed routes and means for getting their materials to market.
nationally known authors and speakers as well as the best garden show in western colorado - feb. 11-13 at two rivers convention center in grand junction.
guests are  encouraged to vote for the people's choice award, which will be tallied and  announced half way through the evening.
c.j. bell scored with a drive, then both teams opened up from behind the  arc as shaffer drilled a pair of treys to counter a three ball from colton bell  and the pirates held a 60-30 lead at 1:52.
he had never learned to type the asdf-jkl; routine we got in high school.
total fouls: p-21, b-16.
these two men have been experimenting for several months with different methods of receiving tv and report that the system they are presently working on looks very satisfactory.
also, enjoy  the dolls that are on display as a part of this presentation.
we are weather watching, to figure out a time and day to resurface the pond.
prior to 1880-1881,  entrance and egress for pagosa country was accomplished by horse and wagons, ox  teams, or by foot.
in addition to their biochemical influences, the location of fat cells seems to be important.
he also served as a new mexico state senator for 12 years representing mckinley county.
in the long term, the district board continues to look toward the feasibility of using the mary fisher medical center as a critical access hospital - a federal designation that would allow them to recoup 101 percent of all medicare charges.
men are more likely to be apple-shaped, and women pear-shaped, at  least in their younger years.
let's stop the carping and move forward.
for each child, add $1,734.
membership advantages as a chamber member, you have the ability to reach 750 other members with an advertisement of your business in our quarterly newsletter.
"there is very little predictive value when it comes to saying an 8 year-old will grow to be a superior athlete when they're 18.
"while we like to think we are, the truth is - we really aren't.
it is this understanding of truth that sets christianity apart as a unique  religion in the world.
i think the reason they did not kick me out was because my right hand, morna trowbridge, was so complete in her informational packets that we provide to the board.
also on saturday, feb. 12, is the snow sculpting contest here at the visitor center starting 10 a.m. with judging at 3 p.m. you can pick up an entry form here or we can fax you one.
the final weigh-in  will be march 29.
apparently, i need up to eight weeks of radiation for the brain tumor that was removed jan. 11, the second time in eight months.
team assists:  pagosa springs 18.
music in the mountains tickets are the perfect valentine gift
it  was hugely informative and we are trying to start a small offshoot chapter here  in archuleta county.
the fact is 95 percent of our country is open space and wilderness with only 5 percent developed.
in the process, we've discussed routes used to enter pagosa country prior  to opening wolf creek.
give them a call at 731-0821 for more information on this great service to our area.
cody shawcroft of centauri got the win with a fall at 145 over manuel  madrid.
three were slain the same day.
in a related move tuesday, the board also directed county planning staff to advertise a request for qualifications aimed at identifying professional consultants who may be hired to assist with the ongoing creation of new county land use codes, including those related to superstore development.
we completely  depend on the sacrificial suffering and death of our lord as full and complete  payment for all our sins.
"the majority of these expenditures, $810,000 or 76.4 percent," says burchett, "are related to the operation and maintenance of county-owned machinery, equipment and vehicles.
but, winds of change were blowing across the united states.
this is accomplished by doing good works and having the right attitudes  and so acquire "good karma," and to avoid doing bad things and bad  thoughts thus avoiding "bad karma."
i would love to get you all a  personal thank you, but it ain't gonna happen.
the need for this plan has never been more critical than it is now.
unlike running a marathon, neat is within the reach of  everyone because the kind of activity that is espoused does not require special  or large spaces, unusual training regimens or gear.
during this same time, there was wagon traffic in and out of pagosa springs via elwood pass, cumbres pass, and the old wagon road to durango, a route which approximated current u.s. 160.
advance ticket prices: students and seniors $6, adults $8.
why didn't they know that abusers first build relationships with their victims, using that trust to purchase silence and protection?
we can't say that the new 1955  plates are very attractive and the county number is darn hard to read.
for more information or to reserve your spot, contact the small business  development center at 247-7009, sbdc@fortlewis.edu or visit the sbdc in 140  education, business hall at fort lewis college.
i really consider it a gift to dive into those questions who taught me to want what i want.
the new community bible church at pagosa was dedicated last sunday with a large crowd in attendance.
"there's still a lot of season left, but i think if we can play with  that type of intensity and determination from here on out, we'll be in good  shape come tournament time," said shaffer.
what researchers have learned is that fat is much  more than an extra layer of insulation.
the term refers to the calories people burn during everyday activities such as walking, fidgeting or even just standing.
the $100 sponsorship includes special seating at the event, promotion, and the satisfaction of knowing that you have helped to bring a very popular family event to pagosa springs that foster positive attitudes towards our youth.
they watch for clues to things you like, places you have been, indictions of trips and how long they took and then they are able to pinpoint you as a target.
and with any luck, the state has already received the audit - after beckstead's presentation tuesday, the board moved to accept the document and directed staff to forward it to the appropriate state agencies.
dr. guy paquet, the district's medical director, one of two physicians whose contracts expire march 31, said the area has more primary care doctors than needed.
pagosa, meanwhile, was rolling offensively, with a different leader every period and ended with four players in double figures for the first time this year.
sheridan established that fact with an 11-0  lead after the first period and a 16-0 tech fall called halfway through the  second period of the match.
some of the topics covered include rights and responsibilities of the owner-builder, site and design considerations for our area, architecture/drawing your own plans, custom vs. standard home design, the permitting process, inspections, budgeting, materials selection, hidden costs, choosing and working with contractors, negotiating contracts, insurance requirements, project sequencing and scheduling.
wednesday of this week was groundhog day
and the trend in pagosa's domination of the pirates from the san luis  valley continued friday night inside the pshs gym.
the organization  has applied for a grant from the daniels foundation for $50,000.
"there are no long range medical or scientific studies that show that these supplements are safe to ingest!
but this time it was senior guard bri scott leading the way for pagosa with 12 markers in the frame.
by john m. motter sun columnist we've been talking about events leading to the 1916 opening of wolf creek  pass.
bring your dd form 214 (discharge) for registration with the  county, application for va programs, and for filing in the vso office.
he was allergic to people, could not go out in a crowd, could not cover a public meeting without coming back in a rash.
'being liberal in an illiberal world' is topic for unitarians this sunday the topic for the pagosah unitarian universalist fellowship service will be "being liberal in an illiberal world.
twice i bought lard, but that  was as far as it got.
what activities would you consider appropriate to restore ponderosa pine and mixed conifer tree types back to more open and mature stand composition and where?
test your skill on snowshoes or just watch; it sounds like a good time.
the big wheel at the moore light & power plant is all repaired and  ready for business.
if one's hope is in human accomplishments and works, then those with such a hope will never know if they have done enough, become enlightened enough, or thought enough good things and will always be left in doubt and fear as a result.
but, some observers say, ignacio may be better than the record indicates, with a young freshman pacing them on good nights and some veterans beginning to come into their own.
evaluating your child's game right after the match is finished will drive them away from the sport - and from you!
he has  given us through faith in christ jesus.
the wolverines had little, and despite getting a solid outing and 14 points from junior troy mccoy, eventually fell to the home team by a final margin of 62-32.
pagosa actress, performer, teacher, wife off to ny stage by erin k. quirk preview columnist at a young age, we humans accept labels for ourselves that help the world identify us with ease.
it has helped her examine her wife, mother, actress and teacher skins and to strike a balance between them.
extension viewpointsextension viewpoints several special events warrant your attention by bill nobles sun columnist feb. 3 - vet science project at san juan veterinary clinic, 5:30 p.m.; shady pines club meeting, 7 p.m. feb. 4 - food preservation project at jean brooks' residence, 3:30 p.m.; entomology project, 3:30 p.m.; colorado mountaineers club meeting, 2:15 p.m.; goat project, 3 p.m. feb. 6 - oil painting project at evi minor's studio, 2-5 p.m. feb. 7 - cultural foods project at methodist church, 3 p.m.; food units 1 & 2 at methodist church, 4 p.m.; livestock meeting - mandatory, 6 p.m. feb. 8 - outdoor cooking and living at methodist church, 3 p.m.; rocky mountain riders club meeting, 6 p.m.; jr. stockman club meeting in chromo, 6:30 p.m. check out all posted project and club meeting dates at www.coopext.colostate.edu/archuleta/calendar.htm landscape, garden show rock gardens, new and unusual trees, shrubs and fruit varieties, garden "retreats," daylilies, waterwise gardens and much more.
cost of this concert is $40.
the railroad's coming changed the dynamics of transportation connecting the  san juan basin with the outside world and also within the basin.
now police and teachers are the ones helping youngsters understand who and what predators are and how the child's use of a computer can lead to confrontations and danger.
biz beat dawn and cody ross dawn and cody ross own and operate the carquest auto parts store at 523 san juan st. in downtown pagosa springs.
since his public debut at the age of six, he has performed piano and organ recitals and been a soloist with orchestras in cities all over the world.
after bayfield's brad kujath tallied a final deuce for the visitors, pirate sophomore adam trujillo put home an offensive board and the books closed with pagosa on top 62-32.
generally the veteran must have 90 days or more of service, of which at least one day must have occurred during a period of war, and the veteran must have been discharged under conditions other than dishonorable.
if you  are looking for a tax credit to cover you for 2004 or 2005, or even if you  don't need a tax credit, consider giving to this organization.
" james madison (primary author of the constitution): "we have staked the whole future of our new nation not on the power of government but upon the capacity of each of ourselves to govern ourselves according to the principles of the ten commandments.
in a certified letter dated dec. 20, 2004, ray cited previous letters notifying the county "of its delinquent status," stating her office had "not received a satisfactory response."
bodil will be here friday to talk about spiritual death and dying issues.
find out about the scholarship programs to assist with medical needs as well.
gutierrez finally broke the drought to open the fourth period with a three-pointer for monte and later converted a free throw.
last year, more than 500 people participated.
c.j. bell and ramsier got two each in the final minutes, but a goal-tending  call on the wolverines resulted in a 27-13 pirate lead at the half.
i believe a major portion of people traffic and freight in and out of the  basin at this time was accomplished via the railroad, especially during winter  when mud and snow pretty much stopped other forms of travel.
if you are unable to attend but would like to help, please call morna and let her know what you can do to help make this year's event bigger and better.
the work she is doing now with "skins," she said throwing her arms wide and nearly coming out of her chair, also gives her the opportunity to collaborate with other performers - something she missed deeply working in television.
sandoval took fourth at 119, losing his first match of the day to matt jones of ignacio in a 4-2 decision.
we need someone to fill our tuesday out-of-town route to deliver a meal to our seniors who can't get out.
"these people were our friends," carmen said.
wednesday, feb. 9 - bbq pork chops, whipped potatoes, green beans/mushrooms  and onions, fruit mix/banana.s friday., feb. 11 - scalloped potatoes/ham and cheese, seasoned spinach,  citrus cup and whole wheat roll.
i'm suggesting that we all act as one parent, who has taken a parenting with love and logic class (please think of the principles within that program), and treat this county like a child with greater potential than just a scenic route.
in smaller units of government there are recurrent attempts on the part of  some elected officials and administrators to keep information from the clear  light of day.
" in archuleta county, it can be obtained at the sheriff's department.
this planning effort needs to be driven by you, the local landowner, so that your concerns are identified and can be addressed.
this is a win-win situation.
books on all these topics  and more can be found in one of our display cases, and all of these materials  are available for checkout.
comfort one insulation provides cellulose insulation.
a man in chicago, or philadelphia or atlanta - whatever zone your newspaper was in - would read the news in a conference call to a group of individual newspaper representatives.
"they've been up and down so far, but they've got a lot of talent, so we just have to come to play and take care of business," he concluded.
pagosa used a smothering defense to further the lead, getting six from board-crashing rand, plus a deuce from shaffer and four from craig schutz to go up 61-17 late in the quarter.
pagosans press monte, put four in double figures for 74-35 win by richard walter staff writer trigger your ball cops with a pressure defense and you can shut down just  about anyone.
four pirates ended the day in fourth place in their respective weight  classes.
they are in the process of raising funds to start building a new facility.
albuquerque vamc phone  number is (800) 465-8262.
he is also survived by seven grandchildren, five  great-grandchildren and two sisters.
this is salvation by faith, through grace as revealed in the bible or the  holy scripture.
there will be a checker tournament starting feb. 18 with a prize for the winner.
it was used thursday and friday with the two combining to help fifth- and  sixth-graders know what a cyber predator is, what they want, and how to avoid  them.
do not drag it out on the citizens' clock any longer and make it messy.
what a great group of people to be associated with - people who have a great knack for having fun and who have great business heads on those shoulders.
from his personal prayer book: "bless, o lord, the whole of the race of mankind and let the world be filled with the knowledge of thy son, jesus christ." john adams (to military leaders): "our constitution was made only for a moral and religious people.
the visitors controlled the tip, but failed to convert and soon found themselves down 8-0 after assists from pagosa junior paul przybylski netted seven from craig schutz and a free throw from forrest.
but i'm sorry ... at the most subtle level it felt like a meeting quietly arranged to meet the ends of a bureaucracy, rather than to truly assess the interests and needs of a community.
"we  needed a spark and caitlyn certainly provided it."
we would love to hear from  you regarding suggestions for artsline.
for more information on the class and what you may need to bring, like  some potluck food, contact joann at 264-4820 or robin reedy at 731-4873.
once again the event is brought to you by the pagosa springs community center and all proceeds will be used to expand community programs.
while jewell led the assault, she wasn't alone.
in the first match wrestled, at 189 pounds, marcus rivas lost a tough battle as a last-second takedown was disallowed when the referee called him for grabbing his opponent's headgear.
new  teams are welcome.
older women become more apple shaped as their  weight shifts following menopause.
some have talents never challenged and others should logically have found a different line of work.
wolf creek will host local appreciation day sunday, feb. 6, with lift tickets $22 and no id required.
on top  of that every time you meet a car you think it is a patrolman.
he purchased land south of the existing city, subdivided and sold lots, and built his railroad facilities there.
anyone  interested should see detective george daniels.
this is a must see hilarious family comedy starting at 5  p.m. at the high school gym winterfest weekend happens right before valentine's day.
minimum six students; maximum 15.
more  information is available online at http://soba.fortlewis.edu/sbdc - click on  "upcoming events."
there was $600 in prize money for the adult categories in the first tournament.
tree carvings we have given the go-ahead to start the carvings on the old cottonwood  trees in the town park.
"the worst piece of (vulgarity) i've ever seen" and vowed to protest the score to colorado high school activities association officials.
so are you tired yet?
no one wants to believe they've been betrayed by a person in a position of trust.
in a competition highly tilted to the female side, two boys were the best of show winners in thursday's pagosa springs junior high and intermediate school science fair.
cost of this concert is $50.
rounding out the board of directors are angie gayhart, scott asay, tony  gilbert, patti renner, don mckeehan and judy james.
if you are at least 55, come in and take advantage of the great discounts offered around town.
the matching funds will expire in march, so it is crunch time.
therefore, salvation and heaven are not gained by good works, but by faith (complete trust), in what our lord jesus christ has done on our behalf.
" for more information about the entire "skins" production, visit www.skinstheatre.com.
"i don't see it as a volume issue at all," he said from the audience.
centauri forfeited at 160 and the win belonged to the visitors from the valley.
in the final, hockett repeated his  performance, getting the fall in the first period over a dolores wrestler.
lynch, to his credit, merely turned and walked away with his team through  the handshake line.
mccoy answered with two inside, but another forrest jumper then a steal and deuce from shaffer plus a pair of treys from forrest had pagosa in front 25-9 at 4:50.
maybe they are tired of trying to get ahead and just not finding a way to do it.
schedule: - feb. 15-march 15 entry period; - march 16-18 - judging for 13 calendar winners (12 months plus cover); - may 5 - reception for artists, at gallery.
people who only plan the colorado property tax /rent-heat rebate  application should come in early, as there are four payments rather than one  this year.
the office number is 264-8375, fax 264-8376, e-mail afautheree@archuletacounty.org.
a complete overhaul of the county finance department, including personnel and computer systems.
my well-worn webster's new world  dictionary of the american language, defines truth this way: "1.
we have had some spectacular entries in the past and this is a great location for people to see your creations.
though currently listed as expenses, says burchett, "these costs will be reflected as assets when the financial statement is presented for fiscal year 2005, as is the common practice of a business operation.
sophomore claire  quintanilla also scored for the visitors.
please rsvp linda morton at 565-9395.
carmen suggested parents should sit down with their children regularly to discuss safety, setting limits and communication.
it actually works as an endocrine organ  that secretes dozens of proteins that affect the inner workings of the body.
pledges have been received from wells fargo bank, raymond rent-a-nerd and jim smith realty.
i am happy to have such a strong group of individuals  serving as the executive committee.
you have a choice of four concerts, each of which will bring world-class musicians to pagosa springs.
but  really, i was a sissy.
psac calendar all psac classes and workshops are held in the arts and craft space at the community center, unless otherwise noted.
recreation engineering and planning (rep), of boulder was chosen by a committee of town staff, property owners, river recreationalists and river enthusiasts from among five proposals to take on the estimated $40,000 design phase.
one of the greatest reporters i ever knew was a product of the old line  journalism schools.
specifically, the resolution directs the county department of community development "to continue its study and evaluation and to recommend new land use regulations to address superstore development."
according to todd beckstead, an accountant with the grand junction-based accounting firm of chadwick, steinkirchner, davis & co. pc, all of the above factored into the delayed completion of the 2003 archuleta county audit.
the browns give back to the community and protect areas up on the pass.
" such meetings, he said, are the predator's signature - having successfully  identified you.
the best we hope to do with "slim for seeds" is to give you a kick in the pants.
the working group was convened early last year and given the primary task of recommending state guidelines for the management of gray wolves that migrate into colorado.
- three pairs of shoes are more than enough.
- i will tell an adult about anyone who scares me or threatens me or tells  me to keep a secret or make a promise not to tell.
we need to look at this very closely, because the people who suffer from  this end up being at a disadvantage in the game itself.
oh yes, we are following the letter of the law, inviting public comment, and it "appears" to be well done, but for some strange reason i found it difficult to be a "good little doobie" and place my one sticker (out of 30 or more possibilities) on the map of the williams reservoir "landscape" to denote its single most important use.
the listener will hopefully leave with a greater understanding of night photography.
what throws the grid off are kids who do not show up, and one team has six players and the other team has more.
kids 16  and under are free and will compete separately for very nice ice fishing  related prizes.
contact bruce at baphoto@centurytel.net or call 731-4645 for more information or to reserve your spot.
thus, bayfield's 13-point deficit was suddenly at 29 points after the pirate third-period effort.
those of us who wish to make informed choices must  demand our representatives reject law that encourages secrecy in the public  sector and, in their day-to-day doings, that they kick open the door at every  opportunity to let the light shine in.
" - phone conversations are over in 30 seconds flat.
researchers now are working to determine how diet, exercise  and other changes within the body affect the storage and regulation of fat  tissue.
she drilled six of six from the floor in the period and added a free throw.
the remaining 50 percent of county sales tax revenues are allocated to the road capital improvement fund.
there  is no safe wall to block information you don't realize you're dispensing." "your computer use becomes your link to danger," he said.
extension viewpoints several special events warrant your attention by bill nobles sun columnist feb. 3 - vet science project at san juan veterinary clinic, 5:30 p.m.;  shady pines club meeting, 7 p.m. feb. 4 - food preservation project at jean brooks' residence, 3:30 p.m.;  entomology project, 3:30 p.m.; colorado mountaineers club meeting, 2:15 p.m.;  goat project, 3 p.m. feb. 6 - oil painting project at evi minor's studio, 2-5 p.m. feb. 7 - cultural foods project at methodist church, 3 p.m.; food units 1  & 2 at methodist church, 4 p.m.; livestock meeting - mandatory, 6 p.m. feb. 8 - outdoor cooking and living at methodist church, 3 p.m.; rocky  mountain riders club meeting, 6 p.m.; jr. stockman club meeting in chromo, 6:30  p.m.
nelson took fourth place at 112.
the pirate took atencio down, released him and took him down again.
"most of today's top professional athletes didn't even think to specialize in just one sport until they were in high school, around the age of 15.
by tom carosello staff writer discovery of several accounts that had not been reconciled.
enjoy the fact they have a given talent and that, with our substitution rules, play equal time.
and one more great advertising space is laplata county airport near  durango.
of course the highlight of the weekend will be the balloon rally taking  place saturday and sunday mornings, feb. 12 and 13, at approximately 8 a.m.
walkup's scoring binge was based on eight-for-11 from the floor but zero-for-four from the line.
my biggest joys are to see a kid who might not have the best self-esteem  gain acceptance in an arena where he or she normally would not make friends.
these two men  have been experimenting for several months with different methods of receiving  tv and report that the system they are presently working on looks very  satisfactory.
jessica lynch dropped in a 6-foot jumper for pagosa and then caitlin  forrest put the cap on a 17-8 pagosa first quarter with a spinning left-handed  hook in the lane.
the office is open from 8 a.m.-4 p.m., monday through thursday, friday by appointment.
finally, the commission will vote on final wolf migratory management policies in may. one gray wolf has been found in colorado over the past year and more could migrate from states where the carnivores have been reintroduced.
the second period was more of the same.
all leadership volunteers have been urged to attend or to call 264-3686  with commitment ideas that would continue the 24-year fiesta tradition.
while creatine, andro, and ephedra products are legal in most states, that does not mean that they are healthy for your youngster.
our watershed study has an ultimate goal of creating a master watershed plan document that would include a detailed study of the watershed, and recommendations and design plans to improve and protect the watershed.
"the people who sexually assault our children are the people who can get close to them," the littleton mother said.
botany - andrea fautheree, first, amanda barnes, second and rachel snow, third, all advancing.
betty desires to share her knowledge and stir the artist heart in others.
more information is available online at http://soba.fortlewis.edu/sbdc - click on "upcoming events."
the racquetball courts in the recreation center will be closed for  refinishing saturday, feb. 5, through thursday, feb. 10.
for the past few weeks it has been very difficult to maintain the skate  pond.
pagosa, meanwhile, was rolling offensively, with a different leader every  period and ended with four players in double figures for the first time this  year.
everyone is welcome (even if you don't have a sweetheart), and there is no cover charge.
a review of some of the bills introduced during the first weeks of the current session shows the work is again underway - in some cases relative to seemingly unimportant matters, at other times aiming for more.
this cost includes  six informative presentations, lunch and refreshments.
this number is important  because there will also be a balloon glow saturday evening starting around  5:30-6 p.m. weather permitting.
he knew all the right people, knew all the background of every story, and never gave a biased report in his life.
"there is very little predictive value when it comes to saying an 8  year-old will grow to be a superior athlete when they're 18.
" her advice for caring for things was to "wear it out, make it do or do without."
it takes a lot of nerve to get up and coach in front of  everyone, without benefit of experience and extensive basketball knowledge.
it is a faith that has its hope solely in the love and actions  of god, and not in vain attempts by sinful humanity to "get right with  god."
just remember to mark your calendars with all the upcoming  events and look around town for the schedule of events for winterfest.
the discussion leaders said parents should be aware of the possibility their child is being "groomed" if he or she: - spends excessive time on the internet, especially late at night; - is secretive about cyber friends, or how they spend their time on the internet; and - withdraws from family and friends, seems depressed or unresponsive.
at the ignacio tournament saturday, the pirates wrapped up the regular season schedule with a third-place finish in the seven team event.
the benefit concert will open with a performance by one of our gifted local scholarship students.
after all, transportation has always been important to the development of  an area.
smith took second when he lost to a piedra vista  athlete in the final.
in 2004 he moved to the family ranch in pagosa springs where he remained until his death.
"there's still a lot of season left, but i think if we can play with that type of intensity and determination from here on out, we'll be in good shape come tournament time," said shaffer.
however, we will take the entry pot and split that up as well, so the more entries, the bigger the cash awards.
following many active years in his cincinnati uu church, he was encouraged by friends to become a minister.
from the rest of the pirates, coach bob lynch got single first-period markers from lori walkup and caitlyn jewell for an 11-5 lead after one.
pagosa citizens were.
heart check to be held feb. 15 & 16 february is the american heart association's american heart month, and a great time to have an annual heart health screening.
islam teaches that god is so holy and removed from man that he cannot be personally known and can only be appeased through the keeping of the five pillars of islam which is a list of good works that must be accomplished by each and every muslim if he is to avoid hell.
in fact, they were a rebound short of having the first double-double of the year.
indeed, any such humanly based act is an incredible  insult to god attempting to render payment for that which has already been  perfectly accomplished by jesus christ.
board chairman pam hopkins said a decision regarding the short-term status of the medical center would most likely have to be made at a special meeting scheduled feb. 15 at 7 p.m. at fire station 1.
palmer put in place narrow gauge  railroad tracks connecting denver with the san juan mining district.
dawn walker pirates bury bayfield 62-32, go to ignacio friday
brian sinnot, ems committee chair, said the model for ems services approved in july meets the district's basic needs and little else.
ahead 10-5, armijo put an end to the game, pinning atencio at 3:50.
with determination, perseverance and a realistic goal, weight loss is a doable undertaking.
you can call the plpoa administrative offices at 731-5635 for more details.
a note here: i never made this pie crust.
this event will be combined with other activities going on in conjunction with winter fest.
collaboration is a major part of "skins."
he was the classic hunt-and-peck typist whose fingers flew across the keyboard, two on each hand beating out usually readable copy.
" "be suspicious, be aware, be ready to tell someone in charge if you feel threatened," capistrant urged the preteens.
this cost includes six informative presentations, lunch and refreshments.
sincerely, r.l. isaacs, det.
it should no longer be a nonprofit if the top people are making over $100,000 a year.
there is no safe wall to block information you don't realize you're dispensing."
"don't even hint at your family name, your phone number, your  friends, social security number, age, area of residence or school  attended."
remember, these are the maximum amount of allowable gross incomes as  outlined above.
all kids prefer to play - and play a lot - on a losing or  not-so-good team, so long as they're playing in the games - rather than play  only sparingly on a championship team.
town manager mark garcia said one of the first tasks will be redesigning some of the existing river structures to prevent the "beaching" of innertubes during low-water flows and reduce safety hazards.
it has also been my misfortune to work with several who should have found another line of work; and encouraged some to do so.
his performance at 7 p.m. will include shumann's "piano quartet."
you can call the  plpoa administrative offices at 731-5635 for more details.
adults $12, children 12 and under $10, and seniors with  membership cards $10.
thanks to becky herman for volunteering to teach our seniors.
our program is attempting to make it fair for all young athletes.
blame it on low neat.
charley can be reached at  946-0700.
according to mrs. fiedler, "it was a great opportunity for young people of different cultures to connect on a person-to-person level, and to get to know more about each others people and nation.
1895 beginning the demise of amargo, the stage route led from lumberton through the same edith crossing of the navajo river to pagosa springs.
he purchased land south of the existing city, subdivided and sold lots, and  built his railroad facilities there.
users of the cumbres  pass route entered pagosa springs from the south on the same u.s. 84 approach.
every dollar raised in "slim for seeds" will be donated to seeds of learning family center to help them build a much-needed new facility.
meyer is the niece of television actress angela lansbury and a former tv actress herself.
" on feb. 15, the focus will be on the camera, learning how to run the thing  and how to make good choices with the various settings.
the balloons will launch from a site near the pagosa lakes recreation center.
"pagosa brats" are playing in the gym wednesdays 10 a.m.-noon and could use some grandparents to hang out with them.
we want you to be prepared for such encounters and to know what to do if it  happens." "what about talking boards with buddies on a skateboard site?"
anyone interested should see detective george daniels.
in fact, being armed with  information only works if it's shared with others.
bayfield's points came on a field goal from ashley shaw, who would lead her team in the game with 11 points, and three from the line by kelsey dean.
the amount payable under this program depends on the type and amount of income the veteran and family members receive from other sources.
there will be a silent auction, great food and good fun at a cost of $50 per person.
the agenda includes: - call to order/roll call at 7 p.m.; - pagosa meadows i and ii - sketch plan review re-plat of lot 113 pagosa meadows ii and lot 16 pagosa meadows i.
a series of earthy and challenging poems and sculptures was the result.
consequently, smelters constructed at durango concentrated much of the ore production from the silverton area.
the need for a wolf creek pass was pressing.
as a person gains weight, their fat cells release more leptin, which in theory should cause a decrease in appetite and an increase in the number of calories burned.
"this is a very basic workshop," says andersen.
he became intensely angry when even a single word was  changed in his reportage.
he's just  supersaturated with an excess of parental exhilaration on account of the  arrival of that big, fine, embryo cowpuncher at his home last tuesday.
judaism teaches that it is through the keeping of god's law that redemption  and forgiveness can be found.
first day - a winter landscape and winter still life; second day - fall landscape and harvest still life; third day - spring/summer flowers and summer still life.
the service and children's program will begin 10:30 a.m. in the pagosah unitarian universalist fellowship hall, unit 15, in greenbriar plaza.
some playgrounds are man-made, out of quicksand, intentionally made, by those who are accustomed to being stuck in the mud; not generally participating by choice, but by disease.
those predators "groom" their victims by: - meeting them in chat rooms and progressing to instant messaging, or  e-mail, telephone and ultimately direct contact; - befriending/isolating victims by building their trust; - asking the victim to keep their "friendship" secret, sometimes  threatening violence; and - sending pornographic images to lower inhibitions, provide instruction and  arouse potential victims.
i don't think there heart is in it.
the application for the colorado property tax, rent, heat rebate program will also be prepared when appropriate.
seniors inc. memberships to seniors, inc are still being sold at the senior center 10:30  a.m.-1 p.m. monday, tuesday, wednesday and friday.
islam teaches that god is so holy and removed from man that he cannot be  personally known and can only be appeased through the keeping of the five  pillars of islam which is a list of good works that must be accomplished by  each and every muslim if he is to avoid hell.
she had been at the same daycare since  age 1.
a third phase would include the stretch of river from apache street to the town boundary.
please help this group help our children.
kelley, on what would be her poorest shooting night of the season percentagewise, converted one field goal and three from the line.
pagosa's 6-2 senior caitlyn jewell made sure of that.
as for this week's road game at ignacio, "it'll be a tough one;  they're quick, they're aggressive and they can shoot the ball really
karl isberg pacing pagosapacing pagosa field of flakes and free thinkers by richard walter staff writer there are many characters in the journalism profession.
the community study group will continue to meet on the last thursday of each month through june, to offer input to changes in our region's land management program.
exact dates and locations of meetings in this area are as follows: - feb. 7 - durango, doubletree hotel durango, 501 camino del rio - feb. 8 - alamosa, adams state college, student union building, corner of first street and stadium drive to read more about gray wolf management and to review the working group's initial recommendations, visit wildlife.state.co.us/species_cons/graywolf/. stollsteimer creek watershed study has been launched by cynthia purcell special to the sun the san juan conservation district is sponsoring an important watershed study in the stollsteimer creek watershed area.
after all, it's all just  part of being a sports parent.
generally speaking this of course includes the current conflicts as well as the  first gulf war, vietnam, korea, world war ii and so on.
janowsky affirmed his pre-meet theory.
not all recreation or competitive experiences are positive, but you have to  try to always put the child's learning and enjoyment of participation first and  foremost.
carquest auto parts is open monday-friday from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., saturday 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. call 264-4127.
the fairness, professionalism and judgment of directors don costa, lee vorhies, mojie adler, joe apker, vince debennedette and bob fiedler (since deceased) have also been vindicated by this verdict.
remember, your sled needs to be homemade and have brakes - no store-bought sleds or tubes.
referees-umpires the department continues to seek individuals interested in officiating youth and adult basketball, youth baseball and/or adult softball.
doug had some good information and  fabulous photos, so we hope to have him back again in the spring.
attendees are not able to build energy and become better informed by sharing their ideas and concerns as an entire group.
children under 5 get in free.
phone number is 247-2214.
bye then pinned chris simon of bayfield in the  first period of the semifinal match.
creating the comprehensive plan is expected to take about a year.
she was previously a violinist with the new world symphony in miami beach, florida.
there are two heats - 10 and 11:30 a.m.
tuesday, feb. 8, will feature the red shoes piano trio returning to  entertain pagosans with a selection of classical music.
cliff shaw and scott myers added four to monte's total in the final minute,  but casey schutz sank a pair at the line and craig schutz added a three-point  play to give pagosa a 26-12 lead after one.
race time is noon and you need to have your sled checked out prior to that time.
for information on these and other veterans' benefits please call or stop  by the veterans service office on the lower floor of the county courthouse.
all good reasons as to why the american people chose george bush to lead our nation for four more years.
the store has recently moved to this new location and the inventory has been expanded with the move.
if i try to tell, and no one helps me, i will call 9-1-1 for help.
it is to ensure that we have clean water resources even after our community becomes much more urbanized over the next 20 years.
keshet said the goal of the isafe program is to educate every student with  curriculum that is designed to: - empower students to recognize techniques used by predators to deceive  them; - empower students to refuse requests for personal information; - provide students with the tools they need to respond assertively; and - encourage students to report suspicious or dangerous contact immediately.
some coaches will pressure kids to play just one sport.
if you work hard anything is possible.
i picked him up with a hand in each arm pit, carried him across the  newsroom and sat him down in his own chair with directions for him to stay  until told to move.
carquest auto parts is open monday-friday from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., saturday 7  a.m. to 5 p.m. call 264-4127.
researchers now are working to determine how diet, exercise and other changes within the body affect the storage and regulation of fat tissue.
in her home area of littleton, the registry cost her $2 and contains 98 names.
the denver & rio grande crossed cumbres pass in 1880 and reached  durango in 1881.
what a great group of  people to be associated with - people who have a great knack for having fun and  who have great business heads on those shoulders.
most of the time i am happy and glorious that i am alive and still know my  own name.
i try to relax when my son's team is affected, to remember that recreation  basketball is just that -- recreation - a town sponsored physical education  class.
pagosa lakes news get neat and help a worthy fund for kids
odds are good the iml teams will be among the strongest at the tourney.
while this happens sometimes, more times than not, it doesn't.
any thoughts monte might have had of a second half comeback died in a  withering pagosa press that limited the visitors to just four shots from the  floor in the period and a total of three points, all by senior erin mcauliffe.
michael, who confessed to his crimes, was sentenced to 30 days in  jail and intensive therapy.
shoring up holes in the court system begins with you, judge denvir.
county road 500 is now the worst it has been in the last 30 to 40 years.
on jan. 7, 2005, carmen's family discovered her 5-year-old daughter was being sexually abused by the teen-age son of their daycare provider.
as our hosts again this year, dick and kathy fitz have garnered some prizes to give out in addition to our usual cash prize of $50 to the fastest and most creative sleds.
by tom carosello staff writer
- you are not expected to know the names of more than five colors.
75 years ago taken from sun files of feb. 7, 1930 coal is being delivered almost daily to the junction this cold weather with  a four-horse team and sled.
now police and teachers are the ones helping youngsters understand who and  what predators are and how the child's use of a computer can lead to  confrontations and danger.
flc workshops fort lewis college office of extended studies is offering a bevy of classes  this winter.
while scientists have learned much about fat over the last decade, there is  still more research to be done.
as a person gains weight, their fat cells release more leptin, which  in theory should cause a decrease in appetite and an increase in the number of  calories burned.
(unreimbursed medical expenses may reduce countable income.)
reichart, who has won numerous awards and performed with major orchestras in israel and europe, wowed pagosa audiences when he played here the last two summers.
"i thought if there was ever anything going on with my child, i'd know  it.
in fact, meyer has found a lot of talent and dedication by working with young people in acting seminars and her annual summer camps.
this watershed encompasses approximately an 82,000-acre area from the lower portions of the pagosa peak area down to the confluence of stollsteimer creek and the piedra river and includes portions of the town of pagosa springs, all of the pagosa lakes subdivisions, portions of the national forest, southern ute tribal lands, large portions of the pagosa area water and sanitation district and most of aspen springs.
at a critical point in looking to the future, the board of directors of pagosa springs spanish fiesta club will meet 5:30 p.m. tuesday in the chamber of commerce building.
consequently, "... i am authorizing you to hold all funds generated pursuant to the taxing authority of such local government in your possession," said ray.
it was hugely informative and we are trying to start a small offshoot chapter here in archuleta county.
make reservations by feb. 4 by calling 264-0095 or 264-2264.
there will be a memorial celebration of his life at 1 p.m. saturday, feb. 5, in the elks lodge of farmington, n.m., 801 municipal drive.
discovered in 1994, leptin is released by fat cells.
my emotions now go from  glorious to totally ticked off.
"we've taken some huge steps, and laid a strong foundation for management if wolves ever become established in colorado," skiba said.
reason and experience both forbid us to expect that our national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle."
then there was the fledgling reporter who believed his copy sacrosanct and  above need for revision.
walkup drilled a pair, as did buikema and scott; lynch and jewell each  added one from the field.
for a veteran requiring aid and attendance the amount is $16,955.
"the predator monitoring a chat room," capistrant said, "sees the things you and your friends say to each other and can use them as means of assessing your situation and whether you are a good target.
following charles in physics were tyler johnson, second, and luke baxstrom, third, both advancing.
she also had four rebounds and an assist in the game and was  a part of the second half defensive crackdown.
full-court pressure by the pirates led to a layin from casey schutz, a  reverberating throw-down from forrest, then a three-point play from casey  schutz and pagosa led 41-15 at 4:44.
a recapitulation of transportation lines into pagosa springs prior to the  opening of wolf creek pass might be in order at this point.
tickets may be obtained at the chamber, the senior center or at the  plaid pony.
tuesday, feb. 8 - ham with white beans, broccoli, parsleyed carrots, orange  juice and cornbread.
it was the centauri falcons who scored the greater number of bonus points jan. 27 as they defeated the pirates 44-36 in a dual held in the pshs gym.
secondly, during the heat of games, you have to set a positive example of how to behave because kids watch carefully to see how you react when things aren't going your way.
and, capistrant added, to stay alive and safe because you knew what to do.
join the class and be surprised how colors or a simple line will define a subject.
watch for the display ad  about this in weeks to come.
i too want to develop in town and i'm concerned that people don't want development and fight every project on the table.
w.s. mote is putting up ice.
in 2004 he moved to the family ranch in  pagosa springs where he remained until his death.
just remember to mark your calendars with all the upcoming events and look around town for the schedule of events for winterfest.
that is not a subject to be argued.
three-point goals: craig schutz 1, casey schutz 1, forrest 1.
the fun events are only a part of our  job here at the chamber; we do have the business portion of our job.
we need to know who does what, and for how much, if we are to judge who is overpaid or who earns too little for the services they provide.
pagosa springs intermediate school teacher heidi keshet went to a special training session for the "isafe" program last year, then converted her knowledge of the subject into a classroom session involving pagosa springs police officer floyd capistrant.
jessen said a committee of town staff, two town council members and two planning commission members will be formed to make the final selection.
we had a great turnout for doug purcell's talk about mountain lions jan.  19.
b-howard, 0-2, 4-8, 1-1, 9; shaw,  0-2, 5-5, 1-4, 11; shank, 0-0, 0-2, 0-1, 0; dean, 0-0, 1-2, 4-7, 6; bulwan,  0-0, 0-1, 0-0, 0; parsons, 0-2, 0-1, 0-1, 0; pommier, 0-0, 0-1, 2-5, 2.
first, starting when they're young, you should teach your child how to  behave not only after a loss, but also after a win.
one such protein is leptin.
- you can quietly watch a game with your buddy for hours without ever thinking: "he must be mad at me.
an admiral once told me after i made some enormous blunder, "son, what should happen when you make a mistake is this: you take your knocks, your learn your lessons, and then you move on; that's the healthiest way possible to deal with a problem."
the pagosa springs arts council 17th annual photography contest kicks off 5-7 p.m. saturday at moonlight books in downtown pagosa.
they defend taking god out of the pledge of allegiance.
e-filing is available.
just sit and just enjoy their antics if you like, or interact - but feel free to come in and say hi on wednesday mornings.
pagosans press monte, put four in double figures for 74-35 win by richard walter staff writer trigger your ball cops with a pressure defense and you can shut down just about anyone.
"in most cases, that's absolutely the worst time to critique your  child!
that figure represents an increase of 27 percent over last year's estimate of $1,059,000.
tickets  are $12 for the general public and $10 for seniors with a silver foxes den  membership card and children 12 and under.
we want you to be prepared for such encounters and to know what to do if it happens." "what about talking boards with buddies on a skateboard site?"
dear editor: are the rich getting richer and the poor, poorer?
i was very excited to get into 2005 because this was going to be a healthy year.
he knew all the right  people, knew all the background of every story, and never gave a biased report  in his life.
again, thank you for your involvement, especially the coaches and, among  them, the rookies.
even with more than 50 musicians, we promise to keep the same informal, intimate feeling that has made our concerts so special in the past."
the river's historic median flow for the week of jan. 27 is roughly 55 cubic feet per second.
and finally, when you recover from the sled race, go out for more laughter  and watch some high-flying slam dunks and dazzling ball-handling with the  fabulous harlem ambassadors basketball team as they play a local team.
membership advantages as a chamber member, you have the ability to reach 750 other members with  an advertisement of your business in our quarterly newsletter.
i say most, because  there are a couple of private collection cookbooks there that are not ours to  catalog for circulation.
they don't take terrorism seriously.
challenge your friends and family to test your will power by pledging a per pound amount.
capitalism drives our economy.
no railroad reached pagosa springs until 1900.
the last plan, created in 1979, was never officially adopted.
veteran housebound is $12,419 and married,  $15,566.
in fact, she converted only two of 13 inside the arc and took just two  three-pointers, hitting one.
bubba martinez increased the early pirate lead to 12-3 as he dominated matt jaramillo of the falcons at 215.
the town of pagosa springs received just over $60,000 in an energy and mineral impact assistance matching grant to help fund the process.
i won't go into exact detail on all of these parameters, but obviously if you're a robust, healthy, working age veteran temporarily out of a job, you probably won't qualify for this benefit.
tischhauser's chamber and solo experiences include performances with the international cello festival master classes in kronberg, germany, the killington chamber music festival, the alfred chamber music institute, the florida state new music festival, the red shoe piano trio, the alexander murray recital series, and the tischhauser-shelly ensemble.
the size of the space  is 8 1/2-by-11 inches.
sean mcmullen santa fe, n.m .
in the first match wrestled, at 189 pounds, marcus rivas lost a tough  battle as a last-second takedown was disallowed when the referee called him for  grabbing his opponent's headgear.
other intermediate school winners were: math and computers - sienna stretton, first, who will go to regionals; and trey gholson, second.
that cutting accelerated with the coming of the railroad and  it was the existence of the giant pines that led to completion of a railroad  line to pagosa springs in 1900.
while  this happens sometimes, more times than not, it doesn't.
it is written that words can kill or they can give life.
- if another guy shows up at the party in the same outfit, you might become  lifelong friends.
strangely, the home team went to the foul line only  five times and converted just one (kelley).
one of its functions is to send signals to the brain to boost or curb appetite.
before you can even get  the details of the latest diet internalized, there's another new one on the  market.
nelson pinned brian murphy of mancos in the second period then lost to ignacio's nick naranjo.
i urge  you not to miss this chance to help yourself and a worthy community project.
the term refers to the calories people burn during  everyday activities such as walking, fidgeting or even just standing.
most parents see their child as being better looking, smarter than the other kids, and certainly at least as athletically talented, if not more so, than the others.
there are too many  factors that might influence how that athlete will develop when it comes to  sports.
the possibilities that television may soon be available here are good with experimental work being done by j.f. thiele and junior clark.
she offered seven "self-safety strategies" to teach children: - my body is my own and no one else's and i have the right to keep my body  private.
the railroad's coming changed the dynamics of transportation connecting the san juan basin with the outside world and also within the basin.
an established or verified fact, principle, etcš" in other words, in order for something to actually, really be true, it must  be true for all people of all times whether or not anyone believes it.
buikema joined the fray with an offensive rebound putback and forrest  hit from the right side.
walkup was the key element in the early fourth period assault for pagosa,  hitting three in a row from the field.
he was the classic hunt-and-peck typist whose fingers flew across the keyboard,  two on each hand beating out usually readable copy.
on top of that every time you meet a car you think it is a patrolman.
it is the tech-age predator who uses the internet to identify and track down those children he sees as possible conquests.
summary scoring: p-lynch, 0-3, 1-6, 2-2, 4; scott, 3-4, 4-5, 1-2, 18; kelley, 0-3, 2-13, 6-9, 10; walkup, 0-0, 5-12, 2-5, 12; canty, 0-0, 0-1, 0-0, 0; faber, 0-0, 1-3, 0-1, 2; jewell, 0-0, 10-14, 1-6, 21; buikema, 0-0, 2-3, 0-0, 6; forrest, 0-0, 1-2, 0-2, 2; ducharme, 0-0, 0-2, 0-0, 0.
in the final, hockett repeated his performance, getting the fall in the first period over a dolores wrestler.
many of the more advanced players participate in other leagues or club  sports.
the pirates forfeited at 130 and the falcons had a 33-18 lead.
" helen would go with grandma simpson to a resort hotel in the white mountains of new hampshire.
just think how many people you could touch with a special cupid classified.
the impact on 40-plus citizens is significant, i.e., substitute teachers, baby-sitters, cancelled appointments, etc.
the railroad was probably built primarily to haul out ores produced in the region.
now, in those days, associated press was the wire service, and there was no transmission to hard copy.
scott then ripped three in a row on baseline drives, the last a reverse  lay-up.
whoever enters her personal world will have  their creative awareness heightened and will be gently encouraged to exercise  the gift that lies deep within their soul.
but - centauri, bayfield, us - i think we're all in the hunt.
these classes help the student prepare to take the five tests required to obtain a ged certificate.
- i will trust my heart-feeling and if i feel uncomfortable, scared or  confused, or if it just feels wrong, i will get away fast then i will tell an  adult and keep telling until it stops.
that performance was offset by the torrid shooting of pagosa senior guard  bri scott with 13 of her 18 game points in the half.
pagosa's past stagecoach travel linked pagosa to early rail routes
a man in chicago, or philadelphia or atlanta -  whatever zone your newspaper was in - would read the news in a conference call  to a group of individual newspaper representatives.
fundamentally, it cannot be true to say that if conflicting beliefs exist  both can be true.
all players, no matter what level skill level they have, can gain from  the experience.
that put sandoval against jones for a second time.
the listener will hopefully leave with a greater  understanding of night photography.
new teams are welcome.
oh i love this part of my job!
team rebounds: pagosa springs 22.
he also has a local showroom where you can view his work.
road and bridge fund this year's road and bridge fund revenues are estimated at $2,322,595, which reflects an increase of nearly 25 percent over projected 2004 revenues and a decrease of 1.6 percent of the 2004 budgeted amount.
nobody has ever produced a scientific study that shows that having your child play on a travel team at a very early age is going to guarantee athletic success down the road.
weather the past week has been exceptionally pleasant for this time of  year.
" meyer, in fact, tells a funny story about watching actress donna mills prepare for a close up on "knotts landing."
the sooner your child specializes in  just one sport, the better chance they have of advancing to a higher level  (e.g. college, professional ranks).
it shows her love  for the bible and the arts.
that is, he  must have served in the military during a wartime period as defined by the va.
the average high temperature last week in pagosa springs was 38 degrees.
environmental - crystal purcell, first and kelsea anderson, second, both advancing.
buikema joined the fray with an offensive rebound putback and forrest hit from the right side.
do you know the history of valentine's day?
some have talents  never challenged and others should logically have found a different line of  work.
designers for the second phase, rep, have over 20 years of experience in whitewater park design, fish habitat improvement and river restoration.
mccoy ended bayfield's scoring lull with an inside move, forrest answered with a three-point finish after an assist from kerry joe hilsabeck and c.j. bell got two on the break to make it 44-19 pirates with 3:05 left in the stanza.
i could not have been so well prepared without her assistance.
limit two entries per artist selected entries up to the limit of our exhibit space will be on exhibit in may. psac will retain 30-percent commission on entries for sale.
but despite his education and desire, there was one trait that proved an immeasurable drawback.
please rsvp linda  morton at 565-9395.
i am supremely confident that there is working professional excellence out there somewhere - just waiting.
a community of board members, citizens and physicians plan to meet tomorrow to discuss possible interim cooperative plans for the medical center.
walkup drilled a pair, as did buikema and scott; lynch and jewell each added one from the field.
is weight loss a conundrum?
the difficult part is the crews spend so much time and energy in snow removal, then the front brings in the colder temperatures for the resurfacing, and the crews are usually running on fumes.
i could not  have been so well prepared without her assistance.
those predators "groom" their victims by: - meeting them in chat rooms and progressing to instant messaging, or e-mail, telephone and ultimately direct contact; - befriending/isolating victims by building their trust; - asking the victim to keep their "friendship" secret, sometimes threatening violence; and - sending pornographic images to lower inhibitions, provide instruction and arouse potential victims.
in fact, she converted only two of 13 inside the arc and took just two three-pointers, hitting one.
if your organization is interested, please act soon.
the children involved in the program had some common-sense questions.
if you see them around town,  congratulate them or commiserate with them.
the junior lost his first match of the day then drew byes in the consolation round up to the third-place match.
the teen-ager, who carmen calls michael in her talks, has admitted to at least 70 different assaults involving both carmen's daughter and another girl in his mother's care.
biographies, civil rights background  books and other information about black america are located in the other  display case.
"it's sometimes tough for us to be patient because we like to get out  and run, but the guys didn't force the issue and did a good job of taking what  was available," he added.
if it is right, then no amount of good works or good thoughts will ever be acceptable in the sight of god since he has already sacrificed his son to accomplish the salvation of mankind.
mcteer has performed internationally as a soloist, chamber musician, and orchestral player in japan, korea, taiwan, italy, germany, austria, slovakia, and hungary.
while the  inflammation does not cause symptoms such as fever or pain, it can reduce the  ability of insulin to move glucose out of the blood, thus leading to the  development of plaque in the arteries and increased risk for heart attack or  stroke.
a return to partly-cloudy skies is predicted for monday and tuesday, along with highs in the mid-30s to mid-40s and lows in the teens.
if you were one of  the 115 anglers who participated in the first tournament last month, you  already know how much fun you had.
high school  students may apply.
veteran's corner non-service connected va pension plans explained andy fautheree sun comumnist non-service connected disability pension is a va benefit program that  provides financial support to wartime veterans having limited income.
seniors inc. memberships to seniors, inc are still being sold at the senior center 10:30 a.m.-1 p.m. monday, tuesday, wednesday and friday.
it was interesting that doug confessed he has not seen a mountain lion in the wild, but many of our seniors had.
in colorado alone, she said, the sex-offender registry contains 8,000  names.
50 years ago taken from sun files of feb. 4, 1955
these classes, for students aged 10 to 12, will run 3:30-5 p.m. mondays feb. 14-may 16.
the students from the "let's go english academy," studied american culture and used the week to immerse themselves in the english language.
burial will follow in hilltop cemetery in pagosa springs.
help is available 24/7.
contact the office for more information at 247-7385 or e-mail  extstudy@fortlewis.edu.
paquet counted eight including the two at the mary fisher medical center, plus a variety of alternative medicine practitioners.
the racquetball courts in the recreation center will be closed for refinishing saturday, feb. 5, through thursday, feb. 10.
"i remember looking around the table," she said.
the latest acronym in the fat-study industry is neat which translates into  non-exercise thermogenesis.
however, as ray indicated in an early-january telephone interview with the sun, the state was willing to grant a little leniency.
1/2 cup cold water cut fine as cornmeal and stir in liquid.
all participants received certificates of performance, winners will receive gold medallions, and the best of show winners also received statues signifying their efforts.
the town basketball team of pagosa journeyed to ignacio last evening to play the town team of that place, but on account of the pronounced partiality of the referee, an ignacio resident, the game was uncompleted.
tuesdays, feb. 15 and 22 in the community center.
- wedding dress $2,000; tux rental $100.
" it is hoped that more visits can be made between the two schools.
years later he was still calling me from spots across the nation for advice on how to handle a sticky news event.
the need for a wolf creek pass was  pressing.
that fact is offered to counteract what many people saw but did not understand immediately after the game.
durango became known to many as the smelter city.
it is taxpayers' money that is  spent.
and the trend in pagosa's domination of the pirates from the san luis valley continued friday night inside the pshs gym.
community study group meetings will help determine issues such as recreation, vehicle use, transportation, mineral leasing, fuels management and more.
in the gospel  of john alone, 52 times the subject of the truth is brought up with almost all  of them being jesus saying: "i tell you the truth š" perhaps it is necessary to understand that when christ speaks, he can only  speak the truth, as when he says: "to the jews who had believed him, jesus said, 'if you hold to my  teaching, you are really my disciples.
a 10-2 win over a dove creek wrestler put nelson in a losing battle for third against a bayfield opponent.
skiba said the state's first wolf management policy document would address migrating wolves only, and that the working group or a similar group might be convened in the future should colorado need to consider more far-reaching wolf-management policies.
like every other  profession, journalism has its share of flakes, free thinkers and some of the  most highly intelligent and concerned people in the world legacies 90 years ago taken from the pagosa springs sun files of feb. 5, 1915
i never knew either of my grandmothers and i love to hear about those of  others.
liberals are always trying to cut down the tall poppies.
chamber news only two weeks left before winterfest
there were no repeats, no questions.
scott kept a hot hand, drilling her third trey and a deuce, jessica lynch added an 8-foot jumper and emily buikema and caitlin forrest each had a deuce.
this board is where we promote events and hang community flyers, and it is  a great after-hours location for our visitors to receive information.
and finally, when you recover from the sled race, go out for more laughter and watch some high-flying slam dunks and dazzling ball-handling with the fabulous harlem ambassadors basketball team as they play a local team.
lori walkup, with 16 points and nine rebounds had the chance but was pulled with three minutes left to give junior varsity players court time.
the managers' meeting took place jan. 24 but you may still enter teams.
other inclusions listed in this year's airport fund include $60,000 for third party snow-removal contracts, $50,000 for maintenance equipment and $2,500 for replacement computer systems.
everyone realizes the importance of water in our community, but to date nobody has really focused on a watershed study that looks at the whole picture.
parents invited to data session tonight on pre-teens series parents of middle schoolers are invited to attend a special informational presentation tonight (feb. 3) about a new series of classes to be offered in pagosa springs entitled "growing up smart."
therefore, if anyone is interested in participating in or finding out more  information about the american red cross disaster team, contact either edie  corwin at 264-0496 or me here at the chamber.
it goes on at all levels of government, and we must stay on the alert,  demanding openness.
but really, i was a sissy.
for details go to www.coloarts.org, go to resources, click on peer assistance network.
if you are new or are just interested in reminding people out there about your business, bring 750 single page (can be front and back) sheets to the chamber where, for $40, we will stuff the inserts into the newsletter.
if you are looking for a tax credit to cover you for 2004 or 2005, or even if you don't need a tax credit, consider giving to this organization.
the younger you can get your child on a travel team, the better.
cost is $175 per person.
if you are one of those people who have searched a manual in vain for answers to software questions, or wasted time on trial-and-error learning we have classes for you.
the optimum temperatures for resurfacing are from 4-10 below zero.
i could see maybe $100,000 a year but not $400,000.
words that will encourage those who are in trouble to get help.
that fact is offered to counteract what many people saw but did not  understand immediately after the game.
j.f. whittaker, u.s. deputy collector, is a pagosa springs visitor today to  assist fortunate taxpayers in filing their income tax returns.
month, they only have to pay $1 for their meal.
basketball, baseball or soccer will have volunteer coaches who know more than others, however these coaches have stepped up for your children.
scott then ripped three in a row on baseline drives, the last a reverse lay-up.
but scott was having nothing to do with a visitor comeback.
"it sets the tone for everything we do, and tonight we got a lot of  good looks and easy baskets in transition because we stepped it up at the  defensive end."
i would like to thank the board of directors, old and new, for not kicking  me out of the meeting and for having patience with my first attempt at a major  informational session with them.
she has had a lot of experience with this subject in her naturopathic practice and with her own near-death experience.
for inclusion in artsline, send information to psac e-mail (psac@centurytel.net).
obituariesobituaries w.s. 'smitty' eoff longtime local ranch owner w.s. "smitty" eoff died at the family ranch near pagosa springs tuesday, jan. 25.
however, on the other side of the coin, there are lots of studies that show that burnout is a real problem and usually affects kids who have been playing one sport for a long, long time on a travel team.
ray baker cr 500 in danger dear editor: for five days now we have had 12 inches of mud and water running over county road 500.
there is a range of sponsorships, all  helping to support the reach for the peaks organization run by liz marchand.
prior to 1880-1881, entrance and egress for pagosa country was accomplished by horse and wagons, ox teams, or by foot.
if you are a seasonal business, you can certainly display your brochures at your peak time of the year.
she has done extensive research on contemporary techniques in string literature and cello pedagogy.
combine the egg yolk and lemon  juice.
recently she recorded an album, "down on the beaten road," and is performing with the acoustic rock band, formula 151.
sometimes, i get very depressed just thinking about the amount of  work i am going to miss.
proceeds will benefit the "den" as well as the ft.
auto and truck  traffic was supplanting the railroads.
" 'conservative' county budget finalized
"monte vista won the league," said the coach, "and, teamwise, they are sitting pretty good coming into the regional tournament.
"i hope you had some fun and that science keeps your interest.
and so, palmer's railroad carried passengers in and out of the san juan region including pagosa country, carried supplies into the san juan basin, and carried the region's surplus goods across the mountains to markets.
it shows her love for the bible and the arts.
with over 12  years experience as a taxidermist, charley produces high quality, detailed and  lifelike mounts of elk, deer, bear, mountain lion, fish, birds and exotics.
call the san juan conservation district with any questions or concerns at 731-3615.
team entries - shelby schofield and samantha hunts, first and trace maltsberger and shaun jackson second, not advancing.
ah yes, the best laid plans of mice and men - i'm sure someone thought this was a great idea - our tax dollars at work.
men's recreational and competitive plus women's leagues are forming.
a pan consultation enables organizations to obtain low-cost assistance on a host of issues from planning and board development to considering a facility.
people who gain weight around the middle (so-called apples) have been shown to be at higher risk for heart disease and diabetes than those who gain their weight in their hips and thighs (so-called pear shapes).
facts to consider - one in four children/teens ages 10-17 have been exposed to unwanted  sexual material on line according to a report from the nation's youth, crimes  against children research center; - one in five children/teens under the age of 17 have received unwanted  sexual solicitations online; - one in 33 children/teens have received an aggressive solicitation to meet  someone somewhere; - 96 percent of those who solicited youth online were under age 25, 48  percent under the age of 18; - 49 percent of online solicitations are not disclosed (to supervisor,  parent, police or anyone) - 6 percent of children/teens ages 10-17 are threatened or harassed online  and only about half report the incident; - some 3,000 "problematic" web sites that promote violence or  racism were identified in a july 2002 report from simon wiesenthal center as  easily accessible by youth on the internet.
twenty-four of those were children.
forrest answered a jumper from brendon anderson with a follow-up jam,  chester hatton cut the lead back to four with two inside, then senior otis rand  hit craig schutz for a trey to make it 15-8 at 3:25.
facts to consider - one in four children/teens ages 10-17 have been exposed to unwanted sexual material on line according to a report from the nation's youth, crimes against children research center; - one in five children/teens under the age of 17 have received unwanted sexual solicitations online; - one in 33 children/teens have received an aggressive solicitation to meet someone somewhere; - 96 percent of those who solicited youth online were under age 25, 48 percent under the age of 18; - 49 percent of online solicitations are not disclosed (to supervisor, parent, police or anyone)
rivas lost a  4-3 decision to a piedra vista wrestler then scored a 10-7 decision over an  opponent from dolores.
only one small  detail needs to be noted for this event: no power tools for you sculptors.
"they normally won't blow their cover,"  capistrant said, "because they'll want to strike again." don't fall, he warned, "for promises of money, gifts, trips to exotic  places or things 'you can give your mom to improve strained relations.'" there have been no reported instances of predator contact here so far,  capistrant said in answer to another query, "but we believe it will come.
hearts for horses benefit set feb. 12 lasso (large animal support southwest organization) will conduct its annual  "hearts for horses" benefit 6 p.m.
chamber newschamber news only two weeks left before winterfest
i assume you do give a hoot about the well-being of county folk?
don't use words like "if they would...," or "they are always ...".
let our visitors know about your business even if we are  not here to sing your praises.
on sunday, after the balloon rally, everyone needs to head on over to high country lodge on u.s. 160 east for the almost anything goes downhill sled race.
another chamber benefit is our reader board in front of the visitor center.
craig schutz scored with a drive early in the second, and pagosa held monte  to only three points in the quarter while getting nine straight from forrest  down the stretch to lead 37-15 at the half.
i would suggest that while it is helpful to understand the tenets of all  faiths, that different faiths also have different and conflicting beliefs.
this allows a no. 1 and 2 player more playing minutes, and since the substitution and equal playing time grid is a little off, it sometimes seems unfair.
and, for the last 2:58 of the contest, only junior varsity players were on the court for pagosa.
only $20 gets you a cool fashion statement that we all wear on fridays.
later in the meeting he suggested at least leasing out space in the medical center while the board considers restructuring options.
the agreement is to pay off half the loan in march and the other half, plus interest of about $2,000, in may.
services offered  are anything from homemaking chores (cleaning, running errands, meal  preparation) to outdoor work, to handyman services, to personal care, to  in-home assessments where they help coordinate care with health professionals.
"to do that and then go to the taxpayers after you've created a crisis situation is just wrong," he said.
for more information or to reserve your spot, contact the small business development center at 247-7009, sbdc@fortlewis.edu or visit the sbdc in 140 education, business hall at fort lewis college.
a turnout of 50 people or so demonstrated that the public does care and is taking an interest ...
i once worked with a female reporter who was highly into the feminist independence movement.
and you thought we  just gave parties and planned fun events.
parents knowingly sign  their child up to give young athletes who want to work on their skills, and  play in a more competitive environment the chance to do so.
the resolution also calls for cooperation "with the staff of the town of pagosa springs to assist in the county's implementation, as necessary, of the proposed regulations."
he got his start on a small daily in indiana and one of his first assignments was as wire editor.
przybylski found craig schutz on the break for the first deuce of the  fourth, mccoy and travis phelps got two apiece for bayfield, then shaffer hit a  baseline jumper to give pagosa a 54-25 edge with an even five minutes to play.
more next week on the construction of wolf creek pass.
strangely, the home team went to the foul line only five times and converted just one (kelley).
march 9-11 - intermediate watercolor workshop with betty slade, "seasons in poetry," community center arts and craft space, 9 a.m.-3 p.m; $120 per student.
first aid and cpr certification classes are being offered saturday, feb. 12, 8 a.m. -5 p.m. and tuesday and wednesday, march 2 and 3, 5:30-9:30 p.m.
- 6 percent of children/teens ages 10-17 are threatened or harassed online and only about half report the incident; - some 3,000 "problematic" web sites that promote violence or racism were identified in a july 2002 report from simon wiesenthal center as easily accessible by youth on the internet.
while in gallup,  he participated in a number of ventures, including starting a propane business,  serving as lp gas commissioner for the state of new mexico, bank director,  manager of a navajo trading company and ranching.
there will be a memorial celebration of his life at 1 p.m. saturday, feb.  5, in the elks lodge of farmington, n.m., 801 municipal drive.
according to the resolution approved this week, an extension is necessary to allow time for further analysis of the potential impacts posed by big-box developments, as well as how to offset those impacts, if necessary.
a recapitulation of transportation lines into pagosa springs prior to the opening of wolf creek pass might be in order at this point.
the  families were good friends.
"what seems to be a restricted conversation between you and your  skateboarding buddy," keshet said, "is anything but private.
safer living  (senior assistance for everyday respite) provides homecare services to senior  citizens within the comfort and security of their own homes.
of the 2,200 small rural hospitals nationwide, he said, about 1,000 qualify as critical access hospitals.
she also currently serves as the keyboardist for the san juan symphony orchestra, and regularly performs as the pianist for the red shoe piano trio of fort lewis college.
"that is why our benefit fund-raiser and the contributions we receive from individual donors, businesses and other larger organizations are so crucial to our pagosa festival," she said.
the size of the space is 8 1/2-by-11 inches.
"they've been up and down so far, but they've got a lot of talent,
he moved to gallup, n.m. in 1945 and lived there 49 years.
the indifference and disregard for citizens' time is appalling, and for those summoned, time is as valuable as the court's.
by tom carosello staff writer saturday night's intermountain league contest pitting pagosa springs  against visiting bayfield was all about balance.
pending smooth execution of the job and cooperation from the sealant in curing, the courts will be ready for use feb. 11.
it is a great, inexpensive way  to let people know about you and the services you provide to our community.
anyone interested in seeing betty's work or staying at the blanco dove may contact her at bslade2@pagosa.net.
that is something i must believe so that i am not overcome with sorrow and end up defeating the purpose of loving and forgiving myself.
the reason to let the  falcon up?
- i will say "no!" to anyone who wants to play a body game with  me, then i will keep telling until it stops.
randy  eoff and wife shirley of pagosa springs; larson eoff and wife nycole of  durango; zorena anderson and husband roger of durango; zenise miles and husband  lowell of albuquerque.
local chatterlocal chatter friend's grandma had a quote for every occasion by kate terry sun columnist snow days are good times to clean out stuff, be it in closets, files or anything else.
it is the process of gaining trust and building false relationships that  predators use to entice young victims.
an original resolution banning "big-box" stores, approved by the county last august, had been set to expire today.
after creating the declaration, the continental congress voted to purchase and distribute 20,000 bibles.
contrary to mr. pierce's mistaken assertions (1/27) that our founders did not believe in divine intervention and resoundingly believe in separation of church and state, i invite him and sun readers to consider the evidence.
a full obituary will be published next week.
organizers are looking for a few good men, women and children to help us get the ball rolling.
ingraham's poems probe deeply into the origin of the ancients and the infinity of the cosmos.
on jan. 7, 2005, carmen's family discovered her 5-year-old daughter was  being sexually abused by the teen-age son of their daycare provider.
administration bashing?
while scientists have learned much about fat over the last decade, there is still more research to be done.
based on population, with 2,500 patients required per primary care physician, he said, pagosa springs could support six physicians.
" meyer and the rest of her cast mates will rehearse for four to five weeks in new york before enjoying a 10-day run at lamama.
while in gallup, he participated in a number of ventures, including starting a propane business, serving as lp gas commissioner for the state of new mexico, bank director, manager of a navajo trading company and ranching.
her daughter remains in counseling and is  doing well.
fun on the run isn't it great to be a guy - your last name stays put.
maryo will work with groups to identify the advisor best suited to come to their community and work with their board or staff.
this is a request for the planning commission to review the sketch plan for the re-plat of these two lots for the purpose of transferring 1/10 acre from lot 16 to incorporate and become a part of lot 113 to have the existing drive on lot 113 that is currently encroaching onto lot 16.
tickets are available at ponderosa do-it-best, pagosa springs area chamber  of commerce, pagosa lakes recreation center and the plpoa administrative office.
we are  proud to present a check to the american red cross in the amount of $175 as a  result of the fines money and other donations collected from you.
so to get you started, the mountain view homemakers are offering scrapbooking 101 on thursday, feb. 10 starting at noon at joann guckert's house.
while in aztec he  lost his youngest son, dale, in 1998 and his wife, zoe, in 1999.
these properties are at 1441 and 1553 carino place, pagosa meadows i and ii located in sections 29 and 32, township 35 north, range 2 west, n.m.p.m., archuleta county, co.; - review of the january 26 planning commission minutes; - other business that may come before the commission; - adjournment.
the cost of  displaying your brochures at our reader board in the airport is $50 per month.
simple numbers often are keys to predator success, numbers like 2012 on a school jacket, indicating that's the year you'll graduate and thus giving the predator instant knowledge of your current age.
you may, however, copy a recipe or two from these  books.
the difficult part is the crews spend so much time and energy in snow removal,  then the front brings in the colder temperatures for the resurfacing, and the  crews are usually running on fumes.
garcia said money for a pedestrian trail on north 8th street from florida street to cemetery road had to be reallocated after engineering review determined the grade was too steep for the trail.
looking for ideas for handmade valentines and treats?
in lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the american  cancer society, 3801 north main, durango, co 81301.
cody shawcroft of centauri got the win with a fall at 145 over manuel madrid.
75 years ago taken from sun files of feb. 7, 1930 coal is being delivered almost daily to the junction this cold weather with a four-horse team and sled.
to say that all religions teach the same things is foolish and untrue.
the american cancer society relay for life is an international event to raise funds for cancer research.
cleo quintana cleo quintana of pagosa springs, born june 17, 1932, in dyke colo., to frank quintana and anna o'shay, died tuesday, feb. 1, in mercy medical center in durango.
give me a call if you  can provide transportation or need transportation.
maryo will work with groups to  identify the advisor best suited to come to their community and work with their  board or staff.
why didn't they know that abusers first build relationships with  their victims, using that trust to purchase silence and protection?
total fouls: p-10, mv-8.
przybylski inked eight assists to lead pagosa while hilsabeck added six dishes to the win, which pushed the pirates' overall record to 13-1, 3-0 in the iml.
liza kelley, who would be the game's high scorer with 17, drilled a trey,  then walkup hit consecutive short jumpers.
a table grace helen and her husband mac said was one that had come down in her family and one that helen and mac continued to say even after their family was gone: "father in heaven softly we pray, we want to say thank you for every day.
we need to look at this very closely, because the people who suffer from this end up being at a disadvantage in the game itself.
cleo quintana cleo quintana of pagosa springs, born june 17, 1932, in dyke colo., to  frank quintana and anna o'shay, died tuesday, feb. 1, in mercy medical center  in durango.
the vast majority of moms and dads tend to be honest and fairly objective about their child's ability in sports.
one such was a well-educated young man who was from a long line of plumbing  and hardware store operators.
pass or fail, these bills, and more to come, are a sign there is no lack of energy among solons when it comes to finding ways, however small, of secreting information.
brush crust with an egg white for protection from juice and a glaze for  top.
then moller would take the most arresting interpretations from the nine-member ensemble and build them into the performance.
adults $12, children 12 and under $10, and seniors with membership cards $10.
the library board of directors will be addressing the issue of a new director.
they support the immoral anomalous gay marriage platform.
"it is our job, and your teachers and your family's to protect you and you can help us by being careful of what you record on that screen.
"we've struggled of late," said the coach, "and we'll have to see who shows up friday and saturday.
the $25 cost includes complete lipid panel and fasting glucose test (hdl  cholesterol, ldl cholesterol, triglycerides, blood glucose and blood pressure).
at a critical point in looking to the future, the board of directors of  pagosa springs spanish fiesta club will meet 5:30 p.m. tuesday in the chamber  of commerce building.
what to do next is the repair still weighing down the upper san juan health service district.
one bill would make financial investment information related to police and fire pension funds confidential.
team assists: pagosa springs 18.
smith had a bye in the first round then got a third-period pin over a  dolores wrestler in the semi.
monte's other offensive threat, the highly touted mary beth miles did get  double figure scoring - 11 points - but had none in the middle two frames.
the visitors controlled the tip, but failed to convert and soon found  themselves down 8-0 after assists from pagosa junior paul przybylski netted  seven from craig schutz and a free throw from forrest.
in that  match, nobles got the win in a decision over jared jones of ignacio.
j.r. ford said more services is the key, not more patients.
a loss to a dove creek wrestler put madrid in second place.
share-a-ride don't forget to call or stop by my office with your va health care  appointments for the "share-a-ride program.
"we're incredibly lucky to have first-class musicians who have performed to rave reviews around the world come to pagosa to play for us," clinkenbeard said.
andersen will also  cover composition and lighting issues as well.
enjoy the fact they have a given talent and that, with our substitution  rules, play equal time.
palmer's  narrow gauge reached what today is known as durango in 1881.
a 20-use punch pass and a 12-use punch pass will go to  the second- and third-place person, respectively.
david and carol have been very generous to our community charities.
she has also performed in master classes of janos starker, tsuyoshi tsutsumi, channing robbins, and stephen doane.
beginning with art classes at new mexico state university, betty continued  with private instruction with some of the finest artists in the southwest.
wolf creek will host local appreciation day sunday, feb. 6, with lift  tickets $22 and no id required.
so joining us this week is a whole slew of great people.
hearts for horses benefit set feb. 12 lasso (large animal support southwest organization) will conduct its annual "hearts for horses" benefit 6 p.m. feb. 12 at montezuma's restaurant.
a drama class will begin friday, march 4, and continue every friday through april.
25 years ago taken from sun files of feb. 7, 1980 snowfall for the month of january on wolf creek pass was heavy with a total  of 164 inches in january of this year.
the other three believed in the bible as divine truth, the god of scripture, and his personal intervention.
- your underwear is $10 for a three-pack.
rather, god's love and  compassion are seen in that he sent his one and only son into the world to  assume human flesh, to keep the law perfectly, and to suffer and die for the  sins of all people.
registration cost is $10 before feb. 11 or $15 afterward.
according to snotel data, the snowpack level for the upper san juan basin, as of wednesday, was 179 percent of average.
nationally  known authors and speakers as well as the best garden show in western colorado  - feb. 11-13 at two rivers convention center in grand junction.
miles got the game's first points on a drive from the left side.
so to get you started, the mountain view homemakers are offering
our whole country will soon be rallied to the unity of our creator and to the pure doctrine of jesus."
three-point goals:  craig schutz 1, casey schutz 1, forrest 1.
balloon sponsorships are still available.
give us a call or come by to get an entry form.
there are the beginnings of a good  core group of team advisors, but we need more disaster team members.
back in action at the varsity level after rehab with the junior varsity  from a severe ankle injury, china rose rivas was zero-for-two from the field  but had a defensive rebound and an assist on forrest's last basket.
"there are no long range medical or scientific studies that show that  these supplements are safe to ingest!
by richard walter staff writer as a child, your parents probably told you to stay away from the seedy  areas of bars and strange people.
craig schutz buried a late trey to make it 11-7 after one quarter of play, then forrest stepped outside for consecutive jumpers and bayfield trailed 15-7 inside the seven-minute mark.
starting your own business workshop set the fort lewis college small business development center (sbdc) will host a "starting your business workshop" from 1-3:30 p.m. wednesday, feb. 16, at the durango chamber annex.
the commitment will start feb. 15 (yes, you can have your lavish valentine's day dinner) and will end march 29.
another would require public health analysis of proposed rules, with proprietary information in the regulatory analyses kept confidential.
the championship round is scheduled for 6 p.m. pirates convert cold first half into jewell of a win over bayfield by richard walter staff writer tell a coach his team is going to shoot 11 of 35 from the floor and just four of 15 from the foul line - in the first half - and you may have him out searching for headache remedies at the break.
the talk is aimed at photographers at all skill levels and is appropriate  for both film and digital equipment.
for more  information log on to: www.westernslopegardening.org or drop by the extension  office for a brochure.
your contribution to seeds of learning  is deductible on your federal tax return to the full extent of the law.
beckstead also indicated most of the problems encountered while preparing the 2003 audit can be minimized or avoided in the future.
palmer put in place narrow gauge railroad tracks connecting denver with the san juan mining district.
he also presented an outline of three motions designed to prevent closure of the medical center, starting with shifting tax money away from ems to open as an emergency/urgent care facility starting april 1.
it has been my great fortune to work with some of the finest in the nation, to train aspiring newcomers to the field and see them advance into the top ranks of the fourth estate legion.
she is currently associate professor of cello and music theory at fort lewis college.
silence, carmen said, is one of the major problems in issues of sexual assault.
if you haven't been to a balloon glow or sled race before, or seen the harlem ambassadors, shame on you!
i myself was a carpenter at dave's ranch and he pays higher than any other local builder.
the win put the falcons in front 38-18.
also, people who do not have statements from brokerage companies  (1099b) but who have all their other statements should come in early as well.
tickets are available at ponderosa do-it-best, pagosa springs area chamber of commerce, pagosa lakes recreation center and the plpoa administrative office.
i get to see what great businesses we have  here in our community.
"i think it went better than i would have guessed at 189 - that was the best marcus has wrestled all year.
the  pirate senior drew a first-round
"if you have told no one and you disappear, we will have no physical clues but, in time, might be able to trace the same chat room data he did to get a key to his identity."
the meeting will begin at noon in the doubletree hotel.
craig schutz led all scorers with 27 points and pulled down seven rebounds.
attending the first of these public meetings, on thursday, jan. 27, in the pagosa springs junior high school library, was somewhat disappointing.
four pirates ended the day in fourth place in their respective weight classes.
weisgrau said, as with any rural health care facility, the ultimate keys to success will be "strong management, support of the local physicians and support of the community.
a recent study at the mayo clinic college of medicine in rochester, minn., found that obese people with sedentary life-styles appear to have a genetic inclination to sit around a lot.
almost everyone else was having trouble even drawing iron saturday against  bayfield.
temperatures have been very moderate for this entire winter and the san juan river in town is not iced over.
our savior lutheran church it is often said, in today's pluralistic culture, that all religions are basically the same and that we can learn from all of them.
"it looked like everyone had a stiff neck."
the store has recently moved to this new location and the inventory has  been expanded with the move.
in colorado alone, she said, the sex-offender registry contains 8,000 names.
four athletes in each weight class advance to the state tournament at denver  the following week.
by building this new facility, along with more than doubling the enrollment, the organization can qualify for national accreditation by the national association of educating young children, a huge asset for archuleta county.
" on feb. 15, the focus will be on the camera, learning how to run the thing and how to make good choices with the various settings.
from the wolverine faithful.
in their own house, they always give pagosa a tough  encounter.
but monte vista would never see the lead again.
sigi rodriguez hit a charity toss to break the ice for monte, forrest got  two with a turnaround jumper, then monte's kyle jones completed a three-point  play to make it 10-4 pagosa with just over two minutes gone in the opening  frame.
she is a vigorous advocate for the music of our time, has performed a wide range of solo and chamber works by leading contemporary composers, and has been associated with several modern music ensembles, including "ossia" in rochester, n.y., and "zephyr" in spokane, wash. tickets are available at the silver foxes den senior center, plaid pony and the chamber of commerce.
" with regard to the airport fund, total budgeted expenses for this year are $6,523,967, with $5.9 million of that amount budgeted for completion of airport improvements.
in fact, she said, it was a relief to turn to  professionals to determine what action to take against the perpetrator.
now helen wryly added that grandma totally ignored this message if she wanted to do something.
adiponectin helps  insulin move sugar from the bloodstream into the body's cells where it can be  used either for fuel or stored.
almost everyone else was having trouble even drawing iron saturday against bayfield.
open basketball get yourself and your team ready for the upcoming adult basketball season.
so there is a very big difference between faiths, and not all of them can be true since they offer diametrically opposed solutions for man's problem with sin and evil.
we, as coaches or administrators, have made  special rules to ensure all players have equal playing time and that every once  in awhile you get a prodigy child who dominates.
she received her doctoral and master's degrees from the university of houston's moores school of music, where she studied with renowned violinist fredell lack.
a few years ago i was looking into a nonprofit organization to help feed people in third world nations and i was looking at what the presidents of these organizations were making.
the pirates travel to ignacio friday for a contest against the bobcats - 1-6 overall and 1-2 in the conference, the lone win being over bayfield 60-49 in bayfield.
"having lost a brother-in-law and sister-in-law to cancer in a two year span was devastating," said doug trowbridge.
daniel fiedler, director of the academy, accompanied the students from south korea, touring sites in colorado, arizona, utah, nevada and california to round out the visitors' experience.
any one of those factors, capistrant said, can help the seasoned predator accustomed to chat room techniques, find out who you are.
in fact, being a good sport starts with you - his or her  parent.
as a result, "indeed, the reflection of this budget can be clearly characterized as 'defensive' or conservative,'" says burchett.
private property is just that, private.
fishing may actually be a profitable hobby.
it will begin to turn just as soon as a serious wash-out in  the ditch is repaired, which will be in a few days.
we have had shower stalls and ironing boards for sleds in the past!
the youngest was  14.
she received her bachelor's degree from the oberlin conservatory of music, where she studied violin with roland and almita vamos.
the focus was to improve quality of river habitat and increase recreational experience for handicapped persons.
the education center is also offering classes for anyone needing to complete their ged.
a recent study at the mayo clinic college of medicine in rochester, minn.,  found that obese people with sedentary life-styles appear to have a genetic  inclination to sit around a lot.
there are the beginnings of a good core group of team advisors, but we need more disaster team members.
we had a great turnout for doug purcell's talk about mountain lions jan. 19.
then, there is this year's version of the attempt to ease local  governments' obligations to publish legal notices in publications of record,  allowing them, rather, to publish the legal notices and bills on their web  sites.
but, before all of this occurs, ask your child, "do you want to play or try to play at a more competitive level?"
in order to paint loosely and control the paints and water on paper,  an artist must know the rules, then he or she is free to break them.
vigilance is necessary.
the public is invited to share in the festivities, view the photos, hear comments from durango judge howard rachlin, and vote in the people's choice award contest.
if you think you would like to help, organizers can find the perfect job for you.
lord, lord of hosts, be with us yet lest we forget to shovel that snow off the sidewalk.
we are not attempting to curry favor  with god by doing good things, rather christ moves us and enables us to live a  life pleasing in his sight so that his glory might be seen in our lives.
to lose weight, one takes in less calories than they burn  and in most cases this strategy works.
kelley drilled two more field goals for pagosa and jewell and forrest each added single two-pointers in another 18-point pagosa quarter en route to the final 74-35 score.
the youngster will remember the relationship he or she had with a coach, parent and fellow participant.
countable income monthly payments are made to bring a veteran's total annual income  (including other retirement and social security income) to an established  support level.
ticket prices go up $2 if you get them at the door the  evening of the event.
understanding the risks and reducing them through careful planning improves the chances for business success.
- i understand that when a bigger kid or adult is doing anything with me, i will not get in trouble because it is never the little kid's fault.
keshet said the goal of the isafe program is to educate every student with curriculum that is designed to: - empower students to recognize techniques used by predators to deceive them; - empower students to refuse requests for personal information; - provide students with the tools they need to respond assertively; and - encourage students to report suspicious or dangerous contact immediately.
topics will include  downloading, working the image file to liven up the photo, and preparing the  photos for screen viewing and printing.
now, either christianity is right in this faith or it is not.
arts line photo contest reception begins 5 p.m. saturday
as with other religions, there exist factions  from "ultra orthodox" to "reform judaism," but all are  based on good works as the end of the faith.
would you like to lose a few pounds and at the same time lend a helping hand to seeds of learning family center - archuleta county's only non-profit child care center?
apparently she still cannot accept the fact the democratic party and its liberalism was rejected by the american people.
following a first-round bye, armijo finished off a piedra vista wrestler in  the second period.
entry forms will be available at the gallery in town park, feb. 15, as well as posted on our web site, www.pagosa-arts.com.
enterprise funds the county has two business-type entities, or "enterprise funds," - the solid waste fund and the airport fund.
dr. dick blide, another board member, said the discussion was "putting the cart before the horse.
bubba martinez increased the early pirate lead to 12-3 as he dominated matt  jaramillo of the falcons at 215.
ok, another first this week is 17 renewals.
wartime service a veteran applying for a pension must be a wartime veteran.
routes and means had to be available for bringing supplies into an area and for  shipping out the products produced in the area.
let's talk about finding a place out here where our citizens can get help.
slade workshops the first of betty's workshops is set for march 9-11, 9 a.m.-3 p.m.
calendar entries psac is sponsoring a 2006 calendar.
but in the christian faith, it is not our perfection but christ's on which we depend.
consequently, smelters constructed at durango concentrated much of  the ore production from the silverton area.
by john m. motter sun columnist we've been talking about events leading to the 1916 opening of wolf creek pass.
we can't say that the new 1955 plates are very attractive and the county number is darn hard to read.
the people believed in president bush's leadership.
please call or come by to pick up your event packet.
i worry about the kids in this county who fear for themselves and their parents.
the pirates then went on a 19-9 spree in the fourth period to wrap up a 73-34 victory.
by the time palmer's  trains were chugging across cumbres pass and that section of new mexico, a man  named biggs and others had already been cutting into the vast stand of  ponderosa pines that stretched across portions of northern new mexico and  southern colorado.
we thank mary and bob hart and hart's rocky mountain retreat for again  hosting our retreat and for their wonderful hospitality.
this number is important because there will also be a balloon glow saturday evening starting around 5:30-6 p.m. weather permitting.
this is a multi-entity effort including the natural resources conservation service, the pagosa lakes property owners association , pagosa area water and sanitation district, the town of pagosa springs, archuleta county, the u.s. forest service, the colorado state forest service and the southern ute tribe.
i also worked with a staff photographer who was very good - when you could find him, but who had a knack for leaving the staff car unlocked in undesirable locations and returning to find much of his photo gear stolen.
the county applied for and received an extension in late june, effectively bumping the audit due date to sept. 30, but failed to meet that deadline.
summary scoring, p-lynch, 0-2, 2-6,0-0, 4; mackey, 0-0, 0-1, 0-0, 0; scott, 2-5, 4-9, 0-0, 14; kelley, 2-5, 6-12, 1-1, 17; walkup, 0-0, 8-11, 0-4, 16; canty, 0; faber, 0-0, 0-3, 0-0, 0; jewell, 0-0, 5-6, 0-0, 10; buikema, 0-0, 3-5, 0-0, 6; forrest 0-0, 3-5, 6; rivas, 0-0, 0-2, 0-0, 0; garman, 0-0, 0-0, 2-2, 2.
the trio is dedicated to performing the great standards of the repertoire,  while avidly championing contemporary compositions.
the goal is to produce an annual project that will promote and encourage the work of local artists, showcase the artistic talent in pagosa springs, raise money for the operations of the arts council and fill the need for a calendar focusing on pagosa springs.
christianity, by contrast, abandons all hope of acquiring "good  karma," doing enough good works, or thinking enough good thoughts.
mercy's healthy heart check will be held in the durango hospital's main lobby feb. 15 and 16 from 6:30-9:30 a.m.
indeed, any such humanly based act is an incredible insult to god attempting to render payment for that which has already been perfectly accomplished by jesus christ.
may 12-13 - oil painting, "nuts and bolts & more," with betty  slade, continuing work in progress, learning more painting techniques and  beginning new paintings, $80 per student.
" meyer studied acting and experimental theatre at new york university and lived in los angeles for many years.
anyone interested in getting more information or in signing up should call maddie at 731-4912.
call deb aspen 731-3338 for more details.
seniors inc.  has graciously volunteered to cover some of our meals, so that whenever seniors  come in on the last friday of the month to celebrate their birthday for that
in the gospel of john alone, 52 times the subject of the truth is brought up with almost all of them being jesus saying: "i tell you the truth " perhaps it is necessary to understand that when christ speaks, he can only speak the truth, as when he says: "to the jews who had believed him, jesus said, 'if you hold to my teaching, you are really my disciples.
again, thank you for your involvement, especially the coaches and, among them, the rookies.
shonna gomez enough already dear editor: enough already!
the community became known as durango.
craig schutz buried a late trey to make it 11-7 after one quarter of play,  then forrest stepped outside for consecutive jumpers and bayfield trailed 15-7  inside the seven-minute mark.
hockett started down in the second period, escaped for a point, took quinlan down and scored a three-point near fall.
with respect to his team's defensive effort, "there were a few times in the fourth when we gave up some easy baskets, but in general i thought we played hard on defense, which is what makes us go," said shaffer.
the big wheel at the moore light & power plant is all repaired and ready for business.
he was born to frank and effie eoff in snyder, texas, on may 6, 1920, and  moved to a family homestead in 1934 in pietown, n.m. he married zoe caudill in 1941 in albuquerque before enlisting in the navy.
there is no age restriction; but preference is given to seniors  who request it.
"if you have told no one and you disappear, we will have no physical  clues but, in time, might be able to trace the same chat room data he did to  get a key to his identity."
by tom carosello staff writer saturday night's intermountain league contest pitting pagosa springs against visiting bayfield was all about balance.
not true, meyer says.
planning commission the archuleta county planning commission will hold its regular meeting 7 p.m. wednesday, feb. 9, in the county commissioners' meeting room in the county courthouse.
executive board your executive directors for 2005 are toby karlquist, president; jessie  formwalt, vice president; and new kid on the block jody cromwell,  secretary-treasurer.
then, on feb. 22, he'll turn the class' attention to the computer and what to do with the image files once they're in the camera.
wednesday's forecast indicates a mix of sun and clouds, highs in the 40s and lows in the teens.
no one wants to believe they've been betrayed by a person  in a position of trust.
kelley, meanwhile, was driving inside and dishing off - or scoring herself  - as she led an 18-point pagosa spree with three deuces.
relax, make sure your child is having fun.
another would require public health analysis  of proposed rules, with proprietary information in the regulatory analyses kept  confidential.
participants must be at least 18 years old.
he also served as a new  mexico state senator for 12 years representing mckinley county.
i would not imply that all souls who try drugs or develop addictions are lost forever.
we know this is a big problem, so let's research some solutions together.
sandoval took fourth at 119, losing his first match of the day to matt  jones of ignacio in a 4-2 decision.
"in my mind we need a crystal-clear vision of where this thing is going and how we fix it before we do that," he said, advocating closing the clinic, continuing to support ems, which is functioning fairly well, and working through financial and managerial issues until a model to meet the health care needs of the community and the financial restraints of the district could be designed.
tears form when she speaks of being away from her family for six weeks, but the excitement performing for them when they visit is clear.
the definition also applies to buildings featuring supplementary segments for retail food sales.
as a parent, you should be wary of this!
if you were one of the 115 anglers who participated in the first tournament last month, you already know how much fun you had.
stop by and pick up your  registration form today at the extension office.
added emergency medical services expenses could gobble up $112,000 of that, still leaving the district about $85,000 ahead.
after years of marginal success, lack of community support and increases in  production and liability expenses, it is becoming more difficult to make the  annual event a valuable benefit to the community.
and, for the last 2:58 of the contest, only  junior varsity players were on the court for pagosa.
america is a great country but the brown bashers should look at the fact that pagosa will change, is going to change and the browns would do a great job in town and we are lucky to have them.
your mistake has cost the local taxpayer enough in more ways than one.
ticket prices go up $2 if you get them at the door the evening of the event.
shirley  iverson and peggy bergon are sharing interim director duties while the rest of  the staff continues with other daily/ongoing responsibilities.
sandoval got the  win with a 7-2 decision.
six came from colorado, three from out-of-state, including one from new york.
funds raised will help support classical concerts as well as children's scholarships and musical events in pagosa springs.
no,  this is not true.
that which is true; statement, etc.
in order to come to that conclusion, it is necessary first to say that nothing is absolutely true!
microbiology - kaitlin mastin, first, advancing; brittany mechanic second and kayleen smith third.
i would love to get you all a personal thank you, but it ain't gonna happen.
either jesus is the sole remedy appointed for the redemption of the world, or he is not.
this is accomplished by doing good works and having the right attitudes and so acquire "good karma," and to avoid doing bad things and bad thoughts thus avoiding "bad karma."
- i will trust my heart-feeling and if i feel uncomfortable, scared or confused, or if it just feels wrong, i will get away fast then i will tell an adult and keep telling until it stops.
game time is 7 p.m. summary scoring: forrest 9-19, 3-5, 22; craig schutz 9-14, 8-9, 27; casey schutz 1-4, 2-2, 5; hilsabeck 0-2, 2-2, 2; przybylski 0-1, 1-2, 1; shaffer 4-8, 1-2, 9; rand 3-6, 0-1, 6; ormonde 1-1, 0-0 2; hart 1-2, 0-0 2; trujillo 0-2, 1-2 1; martinez 0-0, 0-0, 0; richey 0-0, 0-0, 0; abeyta 0-0, 0-0 0.
if you missed it, try to come out for this second tournament.
przybylski dished out six assists and recorded three steals in the win,  while hilsabeck added four assists and five thefts.
from there, valade worked with a committee appointed at the end of january to come up with a short-term model that might carry the limping district ahead.
he graduated from starr king seminary in berkeley, calif., and became a prominent unitarian universalist clergyman.
it's a common thing to exchange  such data with a friend in describing the new jacket, but it gives the watching  predator more information about you as an individual.
what won't go in my file cabinet goes in plastic boxes.
if someone has prepared their returns but has a question they may come in for assistance.
for information, contact moonlight books, 264-5666.
anyone interested in seeing betty's work or staying at the blanco dove  may contact her at bslade2@pagosa.net.
in a postgame interview, head coach jim shaffer reflected on his pagosa  team's effort in the win.
tickets are available at the silver foxes den senior center, plaid pony and the  chamber of commerce.
i hope we can let them know that nothing is impossible with god and that there are people who overcome drug addictions, including crystal meth.
morna spent weeks getting  ready for this meeting, along with performing all her other duties.
what a great  family event.
permanent disability additionally, the veteran must have a disability that va evaluates as  permanent and total.
so  we just have to come to play and take care of business," he concluded.
- you can quietly watch a game with your buddy for hours without ever  thinking: "he must be mad at me.
friday, feb. 11 - qi gong, 10 a.m.; reflexology, 1 p.m.; senior board meeting, 1 p.m. menu friday, feb. 4 - beef stroganoff, green beans, rice, beet salad, mixed fruit and whole wheat bread.
kelley, on what would be her poorest  shooting night of the season percentagewise, converted one field goal and three  from the line.
she had a full house for her presentation and it was quite interesting to see joann sager in a red wig.
pagosa used a smothering defense to further the lead, getting six from  board-crashing rand, plus a deuce from shaffer and four from craig schutz to go  up 61-17 late in the quarter.
give me a call if you can provide transportation or need transportation.
cost is $25 for each class or $40 for both sessions.
in order to come to that conclusion, it is necessary first to  say that nothing is absolutely true!
starting a business is risky.
wolves are listed under the federal endangered species act, and colorado will not have management authority until the wild canines are removed from federal protection.
miles got a pair at the charity stripe, cutting the lead to 6-4 pagosa.
by implementing a format where small groups meet at tables with facilitators (in this case who are not forest service or blm employees - but hired facilitators who know how to "manage" people), the meeting takes on a docile form.
general fund expenditures for 2005 are budgeted at $7,800,007, which exceeds anticipated revenues by $325,826.
she had been at the same daycare since age 1.
the reporter literally went berserk, threatening bodily  harm.
following byes in the consolation round,  sandoval was ahead of a dolores wrestler 9-0 when the bear took an injury  default.
a disabled person for all of 2004 may  be eligible, regardless of age.
that performance was offset by the torrid shooting of pagosa senior guard bri scott with 13 of her 18 game points in the half.
now is the moment to hand over the reins to some younger blood to assume the stress of law enforcement in this rapidly growing community.
having been raised to treat women with respect, i once opened the front door to our building for her and got it shoved back in my face with this comment: "i don't need any help.
- either the suffering and death of our lord is adequate payment for  humanity's sins, or it is not.
i try to relax when my son's team is affected, to remember that recreation basketball is just that -- recreation - a town sponsored physical education class.
but, before all of  this occurs, ask your child, "do you want to play or try to play at a more  competitive level?"
weatherweather date high low precipitation type depth moisture 1/26 44 21 s 1" .10 1/27 38 30 s 4" .50 1/28 37 28 - - - 1/29 41 18 - - - 1/30 37 23 s 1" .10 1/31 39 8 - - - 2/1 33 9 s 4" .40 drought upgraded, more snow possible by weekend
raul palmer met a rough customer at 135 - jacob sheridan, arguably one of  the state's best at the weight.
game time for friday's pagosa-ignacio clash in the ignacio high school gym  is 7 p.m. summary scoring: forrest 7-10, 1-1, 17; craig schutz 5-9, 0-0, 11; casey schutz  4-11, 3-3, 11; hilsabeck 1-2, 0-0, 2; przybylski 1-3, 0-0, 3; shaffer 5-9, 0-0,  12; rand 2-4, 0-0, 4; ormonde 0-1, 0-0 0; hart 0-1, 0-0 0; trujillo 1-1, 0-0 2;  martinez 0-1, 0-0, 0; bahn 0-0, 0-0, 0.
three-point goals: craig schutz 1, przybylski 1, shaffer 2, forrest 2.
we need citizen input in this study.
after all, it's all just part of being a sports parent.
feb. 19 - drawing with randall davis, community center, 9 a.m.-3 p.m.; $35  per student.
" william holms mcguffey (dubbed by president lincoln as the "schoolmaster of the nation") whose reader was used for over 100 years with over 125 million copies sold: "the christian religion is the religion of our country.
the election is over.
of course the highlight of the weekend will be the balloon rally taking place saturday and sunday mornings, feb. 12 and 13, at approximately 8 a.m.
in so doing, researchers hope to uncover more effective ways to treat  obesity.
events friday, feb 4 - qi gong, 10 a.m.; veteran's benefits, noon; spiritual death  and dying issues with bodil holstein, 1 p.m. monday, feb. 7 - medicare counseling, 11 a.m.- 1 p.m.; bridge for fun, 1  p.m.; famous people i have met, with john graves, 1 p.m. tuesday, feb. 8 - yoga in motion, 10 a.m.; 10:30 basic computer class,  10:30; massage and healing touch, 11 a.m.-1:30 p.m.; red shoe trio at  restoration fellowship, 7 p.m.
the pirates had plenty, getting double-figure scoring efforts from jordan  shaffer, caleb forrest, craig schutz and casey schutz.
"it is our job, and your teachers and your family's to protect you and you  can help us by being careful of what you record on that screen.
in her words, it allows her to "work from the shoulders down.
reschedule your agenda again for another "maybe" trial?
seeds has raised over $25,000 and they are in the push to raise the final funds.
hand over reins dear editor: your front page lead story in last week's sun prompted a little gray matter recall falling back to the very early days of a 33-year u.s. navy global adventure.
we can mail, fax or e-mail the short survey to you.
its claims are quite exclusive, not inclusive: - either jesus christ is the virgin born, divine/human son of god or he is not.
every dollar counts for this first step to a bigger and better facility for  children.
this will be a special treat for everyone.
and so, palmer's railroad carried passengers in and out of the san juan  region including pagosa country, carried supplies into the san juan basin, and  carried the region's surplus goods across the mountains to markets.
by tess noel baker staff writer the dr. mary fisher medical center will remain open as a primary care clinic until march 31 when contracts with physicians expire.
by kayla douglass preview columnist come enjoy the photo contest reception at moonlight books, 5-7 p.m. saturday.
meredith schaefer got a deuce for monte, but the writing was already on the hardwood.
richard wholf, representing the judges at the presentation ceremony, told the young scientists he taught science and math for over 30 years and has been a regular judge in local science fairs.
get out, laugh a little and enjoy some of the times that make pagosa a great place to live.
combine the egg yolk and lemon juice.
in the march newsletter, i will provide a year in review and plans for the  upcoming year.
przybylski found craig schutz on the break for the first deuce of the fourth, mccoy and travis phelps got two apiece for bayfield, then shaffer hit a baseline jumper to give pagosa a 54-25 edge with an even five minutes to play.
it is excellent fire protection and sound insulation.
critical point in future of fiesta club
new loan keeps clinic to april 1; ems defended
then you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.'"
public meetings will integrate a broader vision for development and restoration.
also meet photo judge howard rachlin from durango who is also hosting a seminar 9 a.m.-noon at the community center.
the community center invites other interested individuals and businesses to call 264-4152.
"don't use any form of your real name as part of a sign-on," he said.
the application for the colorado property tax, rent, heat rebate program  will also be prepared when appropriate.
she also had four rebounds and an assist in the game and was a part of the second half defensive crackdown.
b-howard, 0-2, 4-8, 1-1, 9; shaw, 0-2, 5-5, 1-4, 11; shank, 0-0, 0-2, 0-1, 0; dean, 0-0, 1-2, 4-7, 6; bulwan, 0-0, 0-1, 0-0, 0; parsons, 0-2, 0-1, 0-1, 0; pommier, 0-0, 0-1, 2-5, 2.
we do good works precisely because we are thankful to god for the redemption he has given us through faith in christ jesus.
team rebounds: pagosa springs 35.
for complete 30-page documentation, see www.w+v-zone.com/mary forsakenroots.html.
two pirates finished in second place at the tournament: ky smith at 140 and  madrid at 145.
why didn't they  know to explain things about good touch and bad touch to their child starting  as an infant?
jim from cdot for plowing 151 and also the 151-u.s. 160 bus stop; and 3.
"i think the thing i was most pleased with was our defense," he  added.
with the opponents leading 44-24, pagosa's paul armijo aimed for some redemption at 152.
fat stored under the skin (subcutaneous fat) seems to have less influence on the development of chronic diseases than fat stored deep in the abdomen or near the heart and liver.
you should  be fully aware of the implication of owning your own business.
"as such, here are highlights of some of the more common sports  parenting 'myths,' so that parents and coaches can get a better lay of the land  when it comes to working with their kids.
if you and your  friend can see it, so can the predator." "if someone interrupts or follows up one of your chat room visits with  a request to meet you," he said, "call us or tell your parent and  have them call us.
that accords with fact or reality 3.
pirate wrestlers end regular season; regional tournament next up by karl isberg staff writer when you compete in a tough league, against a tough team, in a dual meet  that will affect the league standings, the bonus points weigh heavy on the  outcome.
if you notice urban chambers acting queer, don't call the police.
meyer knew when she and her husband brad moved from los angeles to pagosa springs that her life as an actress would change dramatically.
read a biography about a great lover, singer or romantici?
if there is  rental property or farm income (past a 1099-g ) a paid professional taxpayer  should be consulted.
the team's  performance at the regional tournament last year has to figure in any  assessment since the pirates finished last in the iml last season, yet won the  regional event.
also joining us is charley sage and trophy classics taxidermy.
psac supports all art activities in pagosa.
two pirates finished in second place at the tournament: ky smith at 140 and madrid at 145.
also, enjoy the dolls that are on display as a part of this presentation.
"the worst piece of (vulgarity) i've ever seen"  and vowed to protest the score to colorado high school activities association  officials.
peer assistance network the colorado council on the arts has relaunched the peer assistance network  (pan) and maryo ewell is helping to administer the program.
hockett wrestled a little more than two minutes in two tourney matches.
this brings the total snowfall for the winter, to date, to 348 inches, and there is sure to be more.
as the prevalence of obesity in america approaches epidemic proportions,  researchers are scrambling to learn more about how the body stores fat, how fat  tissues affect body systems and the role body fat plays in determining one's  risk of chronic diseases.
and governmental accounting standards board's statement no. 34, or "gasb 34" - a new financial model for local governments requiring numerous changes in reporting procedure.
the pirates then went on a 19-9 spree in the fourth period to wrap up a  73-34 victory.
in his early years he was a marketing manager for major pharmaceutical and cosmetic companies and later started his own construction company, remodeling homes in transitional areas of brooklyn.
sophomore claire quintanilla also scored for the visitors.
right now, liz is projecting close to 50 balloons.
march 17-18 - beginning oil painting, "nuts and bolts of oil painting," with betty slade, community center arts and craft space, 9 a.m.-3 p.m., $80 per student april 14-15 - oil painting, "nuts and bolts two," with betty slade, critiquing work from march class and new paintings, $80 per student.
may 12-13 - oil painting, "nuts and bolts & more," with betty slade, continuing work in progress, learning more painting techniques and beginning new paintings, $80 per student.
chemistry - katarina medici, first.
improving patient numbers, both he and board member dr. jim pruitt agreed, means bringing all the local physicians to the table to design a cooperative community health care system that serves the entire population.
she was also a four-year-member and co-captain of the oberlin college varsity women's soccer team.
it's open to all ages and  abilities.
one of the greatest reporters i ever knew was a product of the old line journalism schools.
as soon as the railroad crossed cumbres, two stagecoach lines  connected the railroad terminus with the durango area, passing through pagosa  springs enroute.
chemistry - viri marinelarena, first, breezy bryant, second and cody madsen, third, all advancing.
it's quite the social event and promises to be a fun evening for all.
"talking about child sexual abuse is our first defense against sex offenders," she said.
guests will enjoy sumptuous hors d'oeuvres on the outdoor patio, followed by an intimate piano recital.
they encourage the immoral taking of the life of the unborn child.
however, the possibility for numerous complications was very real a month ago.
the families were good friends.
also on board this week as a new member is comfort one insulation with  sabra miller at the helm.
do you want to play with little ones at the community center on wednesday?
the trio is dedicated to performing the great standards of the repertoire, while avidly championing contemporary compositions.
all kids prefer to play - and play a lot - on a losing or not-so-good team, so long as they're playing in the games - rather than play only sparingly on a championship team.
after basic needs are met, any remaining loan money would be used to decrease overdue bills sitting at about $200,000.
commit yourself to a goal to lose those unwanted pounds in six weeks.
"and i thought we adjusted well to handle that style of play tonight.
chairman of the committee organizing these local festival events is jan clinkenbeard.
there were no repeats, no  questions.
"i think  it went better than i would have guessed at 189 - that was the best marcus has  wrestled all year.
archuelta county victims assistance served 72 clients dealing with sexual  assault in 2003.
it hits close to home.
capistrant told one group of youngsters to never utilize a computer name or password which can give a clue to their identity.
george washington (farewell speech of 9/19/1796): "it is impossible to govern the world without god and the bible.
there will be lots of general dancing as well.
kelley drilled two more field goals for pagosa and jewell and forrest each  added single two-pointers in another 18-point pagosa quarter en route to the  final 74-35 score.
and she picked off two more rebounds in  the period, giving her 10 for the game and the double-double she missed by one  rebound the night before against monte vista.
feb. 19 - drawing with randall davis, community center, 9 a.m.-3 p.m.; $35 per student.
remember reception keep in mind that we are celebrating with lenore and gil sunday, feb. 27, from 2-4 p.m. in the commons area of the high school.
as we mentioned in an earlier column, the discovery of gold and other minerals was probably the single most important factor leading to settlement of the san juans.
however, we will take the entry pot and  split that up as well, so the more entries, the bigger the cash awards.
in fact, she said, it was a relief to turn to professionals to determine what action to take against the perpetrator.
this concert benefits the silver foxes den senior center and the fort lewis scholarship fund.
the remaining funding is provided by the county and includes collection of airport user fees.
individuals with income from wages, or 1099's, social security, pensions, interest, dividends and some stock sales are eligible.
in addition to her duties at the college she actively teaches in the four corners area through private lessons at katzin music and the conservatory music in the mountains.
despite the difficulties, "eventually, we got there; that's the bottom line," said beckstead while presenting a brief recap of the 2003 audit during tuesday's board of commissioners' meeting.
the junior lost his first match of the day  then drew byes in the consolation round up to the third-place match.
there is a total disregard for citizens willing to serve - apologies and platitudes for inconvenience do not wash.
thelma and robert smith corrected dear editor: it has taken seven years, but the injustice suffered by larry bass has been finally corrected; yet, no amount of money can adequately compensate him for the damage done to his professional career and the harm done to his personal life.
the building is located about a quarter mile west of the pagosa lodge and is a large, well designed structure.
understand it is not fair to hold them back from enjoying the game.
the first event will be an elegant benefit with a reception and concert hosted by david and carol brown at bootjack ranch in their fabulous glass-roofed aquatic center 5-9 p.m. saturday, june 25.
add to all of this the fact temperatures are usually lowest late in the evening; it makes for a long day or week for the crew.
to anyone who wants to touch or look at any private part of my body or wants me to touch or look at any private part of their body, then i will tell an adult and keep telling until it stops.
- wrinkles add character.
in smaller units of government there are recurrent attempts on the part of some elected officials and administrators to keep information from the clear light of day.
for more information on the class and what you may need to bring, like some potluck food, contact joann at 264-4820 or robin reedy at 731-4873.
as our hosts again this year, dick and kathy fitz have garnered some prizes to  give out in addition to our usual cash prize of $50 to the fastest and most  creative sleds.
the concert will be held at the  restoration fellowship hall at 264 village dr., behind the village center city  market.
regarding the following night's matchup with bayfield, "coming into  the season i would have said they were the league favorites," said shaffer.
" i also worked with a staff photographer who was very good - when you could  find him, but who had a knack for leaving the staff car unlocked in undesirable  locations and returning to find much of his photo gear stolen.
no, this is not true.
i was very excited to get into 2005 because this was going to be a healthy  year.
a $150,000 loan extended against 2005 tax dollars, secured from citizens bank last week , is the buoy.
total fouls: pagosa springs 13.
she praised the advocates, law enforcement officers and other professionals who worked with her family throughout their ordeal.
seeds has  raised over $25,000 and they are in the push to raise the final funds.
heart check to be held feb. 15 & 16 february is the american heart association's american heart month, and a  great time to have an annual heart health screening.
is it from greed, neglect, or ignorance?
i  just attended an all-day session for american red cross disaster training.
his fine art photography can be viewed at the image counts gallery and frame
these citizens were notified 30 days prior to trial date.
kari beth faber, rounding out an excellent role in support of the starting cast, had a deuce.
he is survived by his wife lillian horvat-eoff and by his children: randy eoff and wife shirley of pagosa springs; larson eoff and wife nycole of durango; zorena anderson and husband roger of durango; zenise miles and husband lowell of albuquerque.
"as long as people keep fighting amongst themselves, you'll never get anywhere," he said.
as well, he has appeared on numerous radio and tv programs.
the route into pagosa springs was either via elwood pass or  from the south on a route approximating today's u.s. 84.
whitney howard and rheanna moe each had a deuce for bayfield, shaw and moe  adding single free throws, freshman alexis pommier chipping in a pair from the  stripe.
a 32-use punch pass will be awarded to the person who has lost the most pounds.
however, the wolverines played pagosa evenly early on, slowing the pace and  taking a 4-2 mid-quarter lead on a drive by c.j. bell after early baskets by  pagosa's casey schutz and bayfield's kyle guilliams.
- you can "do" your nails with a pocketknife.
i don't like that word "socialistic," but what else can we do?
either the holy scriptures are the true revelation of god to men, or they are not.
with this many balloons, the glow should be one of the best we have had.
it is unfortunate ms. adams still is living in a state of denial that the democrats lost the election.
gary hoch, representing the durango department of planning, will be guest speaker.
retirement is fun; make the most of it.
the trick to  receiving the grant is that they must first raise $50,000 locally.
we have only four slots available for brochures.
if the 2003 application has not been filed we can assist with this year, too.
craig schutz scored with a drive early in the second, and pagosa held monte to only three points in the quarter while getting nine straight from forrest down the stretch to lead 37-15 at the half.
madrid also drew a bye to start the day, then forged a 9-6 decision over a piedra vista opponent.
jewell added one more field goal before taking the rest of the night off, as did buikema.
they note parents/guardians need to develop "rules of the road" for children's computer use, perhaps keeping the terminal in a public area and not in the child's room; spending time with children while they are on line and encouraging the children to inform them about disturbing online encounters.
liza kelley, who would be the game's high scorer with 17, drilled a trey, then walkup hit consecutive short jumpers.
on a related note, last year the airport fund also received additional financing in the form of a $2.5 million loan from colorado state infrastructure bank at a 4-percent interest rate, to be repaid over a 10-year period.
dates, times and fees are listed below in the calendar section.
as the human footprint attempts to gobble up more of our public lands, i hope that more voices will come forth and speak to help preserve and protect what we hold dear.
that stagecoach travel ceased as soon as the railroad reached durango.
entry fee for this event is $15 in advance and $25 the day of the race.
help those coming to pagosa who are waiting for  their luggage plan their time here.
had the falcons not scored maximum points  with falls in several matches, the result might have been different.
at this time, i don't believe any stagecoaches entered the san juan basin from the outside.
they were first in line and are also responsible for selecting, training and uniforming our local team.
for updates on snow and road conditions at the ski area, visit the web at www.wolfcreekski.com.
arts linearts line photo contest reception begins 5 p.m. saturday
the entry fee will be $20 in advance and $25  the day of the event.
"if we go on the way we have been, collecting the bills, the last thing we want is more bills."
for details go to www.coloarts.org, go to resources, click on peer  assistance network.
she has written and published several books, note cards and prints.
look for this data in march and read your newsletters.
we look forward to hearing from you.
campi has founded, directed and adjudicated for the four corners piano competition at fort lewis college.
summary scoring: p-lynch, 0-3, 1-6, 2-2, 4; scott, 3-4, 4-5, 1-2, 18; kelley, 0-3,  2-13, 6-9, 10; walkup, 0-0, 5-12, 2-5, 12; canty, 0-0, 0-1, 0-0, 0; faber, 0-0,  1-3, 0-1, 2; jewell, 0-0, 10-14, 1-6, 21; buikema, 0-0, 2-3, 0-0, 6; forrest,  0-0, 1-2, 0-2, 2; ducharme, 0-0, 0-2, 0-0, 0.
if they are not learning or winning as much as you would like, we need to visit about private camps, private clubs available for these kids.
"i wasn't feeling completely fulfilled, like i wasn't using all of myself.
i am happy to have such a strong group of individuals serving as the executive committee.
we are pleased to have our basic computer class back again, tuesdays at 10:30 a.m.
we welcome the following as they renew their memberships with us: best value/high country lodge, coin crafters and engravers, short civil engineering and land surveying, high meadows mortgage, robin auld, best western oak ridge lodge and squirrel's pub and pantry, domo's portable toilets, jgs (associate member), harms photo/graphic associates, harms photographic and selecpro school of photography, rick unger, kroger corporation, kerry dermody, foxfire construction and, last but certainly not least, john and char neill who rejoin as associate members.
jewell added one more field goal  before taking the rest of the night off, as did buikema.
there, the coaches can pick and choose players, as well as the amount  of time an individual child will play in any given game.
for the past few weeks it has been very difficult to maintain the skate pond.
(john 8:31-32) senior newssenior news an active week ahead for local seniors by laura bedard sun columnist the red shoe piano trio was formed in the fall of 2003 at fort lewis college in durango.
either jesus is the sole remedy appointed for the redemption of the  world, or he is not.
they have a network of advisors around the state, seasoned arts managers representing a great breadth of expertise.
my favorite quote was that when she was asked where she got her hats, she answered, "we don't get our hats, we have our hats."
when they were younger, they played a variety of sports, depending on the season.
another key protein secreted by fat cells is adiponectin.
there will be lots of hot dogs, hamburgers, and drinks available to the sledders and viewing gallery alike at no charge.
kids under 5 are free and family discounts are available only at the community center.
katherine jetter tischhauser earned the master's of music and in 2002 the doctor of music degree in cello performance from florida state university after receiving both the bachelor of music degree in cello performance and the bachelor of arts degree in applied mathematics from east carolina university.
his projects are of the highest quality and if he did develop in town it would help this town tremendously.
she has 10 years experience in owning and managing art galleries.
we do  good works precisely because we are thankful to god for the redemption
hinduism - along with its descendent, buddhism - clearly teaches that life is  nothing but suffering and that "salvation" is finally to become  sufficiently enlightened to escape this repetitive suffering and cease to  exist.
saturday and sunday are expected to bring a 30-percent chance for snow showers, highs in the upper 30s and lows ranging from the single digits to upper teens.
and, pagosa had nine blocked shots, three by jewell, two by buikema and one  each by kelley, scott, walkup and forrest.
therefore, salvation and heaven are not gained by good works, but by faith  (complete trust), in what our lord jesus christ has done on our behalf.
the possibilities that television may soon be available here are good with  experimental work being done by j.f. thiele and junior clark.
senate bill 69 would remove the names from the required semi-annual public  notice list of county employee salaries.
there will be lots of hot dogs, hamburgers, and drinks  available to the sledders and viewing gallery alike at no charge.
"it is  designed for the person who wants to learn how to use their new digital camera  and the photo options on a computer as well as those who want to improve their  digital photo skills.
its claims are quite exclusive, not inclusive: - either jesus christ is the virgin born, divine/human son of god or he is  not.
then, there is this year's version of the attempt to ease local governments' obligations to publish legal notices in publications of record, allowing them, rather, to publish the legal notices and bills on their web sites.
"your computer use becomes your link to danger," he said.
" "be suspicious, be aware, be ready to tell someone in charge if you  feel threatened," capistrant urged the preteens.
once again, do not say that there is nothing to do in  pagosa!
feb. 12 at montezuma's restaurant.
in the final, an opponent from dove creek was dispatched in the first period.
i will keep a calendar of who is going where to coordinate this important program.
keep it local with quality service from sabra miller.
the falcon lead advanced to 27-12 as centauri's rory keys pinned orion sandoval at 119.
apparently, i need up to eight weeks of radiation for the brain tumor that  was removed jan. 11, the second time in eight months.
as for this week's road game at ignacio, "it'll be a tough one; they're quick, they're aggressive and they can shoot the ball really well," said shaffer.
walkup had a field goal and jewell a pair.
we thank mary and bob hart and hart's rocky mountain retreat for again hosting our retreat and for their wonderful hospitality.
for any questions, concerns or additional information about any of the department's adult or youth sports programs, contact myles gabel, recreation supervisor, at 264-4151, ext. 232.
it is the tech-age predator who uses the internet to identify and track  down those children he sees as possible conquests.
watch for a grand opening, coming soon.
please return it by feb. 18 by mail or fax your reply to 731-1570.
pagosa started the dual with a 6-0 lead as the falcons forfeited at 171  pounds.
they were exercising parental guidance before the advent of computer chat rooms and the growing threat of cyber predators.
the concert will be held at the restoration fellowship hall at 264 village dr., behind the village center city market.
over the past three years we have developed a draft system that insures each team has a no. 1 draft pick, and we go down the line in order so every team has the same amount of no. 2s, no. 3s, and so on, down the line.
shirley iverson and peggy bergon are sharing interim director duties while the rest of the staff continues with other daily/ongoing responsibilities.
consequently, a stage connection between the railroad and pagosa springs was maintained.
beginning with art classes at new mexico state university, betty continued with private instruction with some of the finest artists in the southwest.
but it was walkup's turn to become floor leader for a period, bagging four  deuces from different spots on the floor, the prettiest a pull-up 12-foot  jumper over miles, who is two inches taller.
during her time in houston, dr. mcteer regularly performed with the houston symphony and the houston grand opera and was assistant concertmaster of the woodlands symphony and principal second violinist of houston's orchestra x. the moores piano trio was the silver prize winner at the 2000 carmel chamber music competition and a finalist in the 2000 coleman chamber ensemble competition.
joe romine fought three battles on the way to third place at 275.
one day a copy editor found an obviously errant "fact" in his copy and changed it.
no one wants to believe it can happen to them.
pagosa springs recreation addressing concerns of sports parents by myles gabel sun columnist consider these thoughts on sports parenting myths by rick wolff, chairman  of the center for sports parenting. "one of the constant concerns about trying to raise a youngster in  sports these days is that there is so much misinformation and misleading advice  that parents often don't know where to turn.
the predator will seek clues like the kind of board, references to  'new wheels,' favorite colors or reference to a favorite place to use the board.
a native of silver spring, maryland, campi received her bachelor's of music from indiana university, her master's from the university of maryland, and her doctorate from the eastman school of music where she studied with rebecca penneys.
most  parents see their child as being better looking, smarter than the other kids,  and certainly at least as athletically talented, if not more so, than the  others.
martinez got the initial takedown of the match  then, with less than a minute elapsed in the first period, put the falcon's  shoulders down.
if the answer is yes, you will require a bigger  commitment.
with all the building going on, you should check out this new provider of quality insulation at 731-0153.
racquetball, wally-ball and basketball players - please be patient and use this down time to do something else.
we argue there are very few matters that should be handled in executive session  - it is an option exercised too often.
working both sides of the deep lane, she poured in six on three straight off high post screens by emily buikema.
softball umpire training course slated feb. 12 the southwest colorado asa girl's softball association will hold an asa softball umpire training course saturday, feb. 12.
so there is a very big difference between faiths, and not all of them can  be true since they offer diametrically opposed solutions for man's problem with  sin and evil.
this concert benefits  the silver foxes den senior center and the fort lewis scholarship fund.
slade is an artist in  the true sense.
dahrl henley christian nation dear editor: the question of whether or not the united states is a christian nation has been debated for many years and the letter posted in last week's section prompted me to respond.
adults are $12, children 12 and under $10, seniors with membership cards $10.
bohl said time to make such decisions is running short.
smith had a bye in the first round then got a third-period pin over a dolores wrestler in the semi.
checklist: - submit slides, photos or jpegs; - entry form completed and attached; - entry fee for non-psac members; - artist statement enclosed (to be used for viewer, publicity and calendar).
men are more likely to be apple-shaped, and women pear-shaped, at least in their younger years.
the wolverines had little, and despite getting a solid outing and 14 points  from junior troy mccoy, eventually fell to the home team by a final margin of  62-32.
in lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the american cancer society, 3801 north main, durango, co 81301.
the working group will review public comment and dow recommendations in march or april.
library newslibrary news interim director duties being shared by barb draper preview columnist since lenore's retirement there have been a number of library staffing questions.
starting your own business workshop set the fort lewis college small business development center (sbdc) will host a  "starting your business workshop" from 1-3:30 p.m. wednesday, feb.  16, at the durango chamber annex.
bayfield won the tournament with 147 points.
the town basketball team of pagosa journeyed to ignacio last evening to  play the town team of that place, but on account of the pronounced partiality  of the referee, an ignacio resident, the game was uncompleted.
rivas lost a 4-3 decision to a piedra vista wrestler then scored a 10-7 decision over an opponent from dolores.
get it the first time or not at all.
often, the officer said, predators are monitoring chat room conversations  without getting involved, just noting phrases exchanged between friends for  characteristics of the participants.
durango va clinic the durango va outpatient clinic is at 400 s. camino del rio, suite g, durango, colorado 81301.
after years of marginal success, lack of community support and increases in production and liability expenses, it is becoming more difficult to make the annual event a valuable benefit to the community.
the service includes tax form preparation or review for federal, colorado  and, sometimes, new mexico returns.
after 40 years in the art arena, betty has attained success in many areas of  the arts.
compensation is $10- $25 per game depending on age group and experience.
does it cause harm to all americans or just to the poor?
february is also black history month.
she was the cellist for the award winning camellia string quartet for two years.
a review  of some of the bills introduced during the first weeks of the current session  shows the work is again underway - in some cases relative to seemingly  unimportant matters, at other times aiming for more.
it has also been my misfortune to work with several who should have found  another line of work; and encouraged some to do so.
best of show at the junior high level was nick jackson's physics exhibit exploring the short- and long-term effects of friction.
pagosa springs parkspagosa springs parks skating ponds are a problem, carvings set to begin by joe lister jr. sun columnist
therefore, we rejoice because there is no longer any  outstanding debt of sin which remains against us.
it goes on at all levels of government, and we must stay on the alert, demanding openness.
wolf creek ski area reports a summit depth of 148 inches, a midway depth of 136 inches and year-to-date total snowfall of 290 inches.
fifty-two of the 55 signers of the declaration of independence were orthodox, deeply committed christians.
according to studies, the fish population and number of river users have increased.
if you  end up with eight players per team, and the coaches use the mandatory  substitution grid (to insure all players have equal playing time), all teams  should be pretty fairly matched.
fundamentally, it cannot be true to say that if conflicting beliefs exist both can be true.
we are pleased to have our basic computer class back again, tuesdays at  10:30 a.m.
by mary jo coulehan sun columnist it is now february and we are already ticking off the months for 2005.
the sun harlem ambassadors, pagosa ringers meet feb. 13 in pshs gym by pauline benetti special to the sun the pagosa springs high school gym is the place to be at 5 p.m. sunday, feb. 13.
capistrant told one group of youngsters to never utilize a computer name or  password which can give a clue to their identity.
first, the colorado wildlife commission will review the group's recommendations.
the person who plows the oak drive and simmons bus turnaround as well as blue windmill bus stop.
no corporate returns will  be completed.
pagosa was only two for nine from three-point land, but shot a withering 30  of 59 from inside the arc.
dance club entertains feb. 10 members of the in step dance club will entertain at a valentine dance party at montezuma's on feb. 10.
in other business this week: - set a work session for discussion of "critical roads" maintenance for 9 a.m. tomorrow in the courthouse meeting room; - moved to reappoint alicia o'brien, sabra miller and lisa scott to the county fair board while appointing danna laverty, jan karn, annette mcinnis and sally high to three-year terms on the board; - moved to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the sixth judicial district attorney regarding operations and procurement support for the district attorney's office; - approved the 2005 homeland security grant application; - denied a request to appeal a previous board decision denying refund of sidewalk escrow funds to ridgeview entertainment llc; - approved the 2005 distribution of hutf monies to metro districts; - pending legal review, approved a request from university of colorado at denver graduate student's request to place wind sensors on the navajo bridge for research purposes.
that was part of the message about the quiet threat of childhood sexual  assault lisa carmen wanted kiwanis club members and guests to hear friday night  at a public presentation at the community center.
treat yourself to a "red hot" evening of music tuesday, feb. 8 at restoration fellowship, 264 village dr.
" an abundance of early and midwinter snowfall plus additional snow totals ranging from 10-12 inches during the past week apparently were enough to trigger the change in classification.
relay for life organizational meeting feb. 9 the 7th annual american cancer society relay for life in archuleta county is set to take place june 24-25 this year.
current classes include microsoft excel, word, publisher, powerpoint, quickbooks, windows xp and many more.
children  under 5 get in free.
if so, where are they?
pagosa springs intermediate school teacher heidi keshet went to a special  training session for the "isafe" program last year, then converted  her knowledge of the subject into a classroom session involving pagosa springs  police officer floyd capistrant.
i am out of my comfort zone and leaving my family.
groups interested in collaborating together for pagosa  funding may contact leanne goebel at lgoebel@centurytel.net.
"talking about child sexual abuse is our first defense against sex  offenders," she said.
1 teaspoon lemon juice approx.
we are forgiven completely!
at the time, there was no durango.
even with the best possible model running the best possible way, he said, the district needs more money at the end of every day.
march 9-11 - intermediate watercolor workshop with betty slade,  "seasons in poetry," community center arts and craft space, 9 a.m.-3  p.m; $120 per student.
science fair best of show winners steeped in physics by richard walter staff writer
in the process, we've discussed routes used to enter pagosa country prior to opening wolf creek.
the sooner your child specializes in just one sport, the better chance they have of advancing to a higher level (e.g. college, professional ranks).
subjects discussed will include star trail photography, painting with light, equipment, etc.
our savior lutheran hosts 16 korean academy students by rev. richard bolland special to the preview our savior lutheran school played host to 16 children from namwon shi, south korea during the week of jan. 10-14.
mccoy ended bayfield's scoring lull with an inside move, forrest answered  with a three-point finish after an assist from kerry joe hilsabeck and c.j.  bell got two on the break to make it 44-19 pirates with 3:05 left in the stanza.
the victory put pagosa's record at 9-5 on the season, 3-0 in the intermountain league, with one game on the docket this week.
it is not our efforts, but god's perfect efforts to redeem his people which is our sure and certain hope.
you should be fully aware of the implication of owning your own business.
currently, donations are being accepted through the jeffco children's  alliance.
through its grants program, the federal aviation administration funds nearly 90 percent of the total costs associated with such improvements, while the state provides nearly 5 percent in additional funding.
lynch, to his credit, merely turned and walked away with his team through the handshake line.
call 264-5020 or e-mail psac (psac@centurytel.net) photo club meeting the pagosa photo club will meet 5:30 p.m. feb. 9 at the community center  with jim baumgardt of durango discussing "photography after dark."
the pirate senior drew a first-round bye then pinned chris simon of bayfield in the first period of the semifinal match.
according to burchett, "the majority of this increase ... results from the anticipated increase of the highway user tax fees for 2005," which is estimated at $1,346,000.
based on an assessed county value of $199,958,860, the 19.751 levy rate will generate $3,949,387 in property tax revenues this year, with $3,106,761 earmarked for the general fund.
wednesday, feb. 9 - bbq pork chops, whipped potatoes, green beans/mushrooms and onions, fruit mix/banana.s friday., feb. 11 - scalloped potatoes/ham and cheese, seasoned spinach, citrus cup and whole wheat roll.
we need a real county road supervisor; leave the public works director to run the computers.
an established or verified fact, principle, etc" in other words, in order for something to actually, really be true, it must be true for all people of all times whether or not anyone believes it.
he  also has a local showroom where you can view his work.
another student asked.
i urge you not to miss this chance to help yourself and a worthy community project.
in the tradition of african-american show basketball, the harlem ambassadors perform some dazzling ball handling and hilarious comedy routines as they involve the audience, especially the kids, in their antics.
then przybylski pushed a steal ahead to shaffer for a deuce, jones polished  off a three-point play for monte at the line and
behind 49 combined points from junior craig schutz and senior caleb forrest, the hometown pirates cruised to a 77-30 win, upping their season record to 12-1 and intermountain league mark to 2-0.
with the recent addition of a narrative from bob burchett, archuleta county finance director, the 2005 county budget is now in final form.
had the falcons not scored maximum points with falls in several matches, the result might have been different.
not even the law can protect your children, or perhaps yourselves, from some suggestions.
often, the officer said, predators are monitoring chat room conversations without getting involved, just noting phrases exchanged between friends for characteristics of the participants.
centauri forfeited at 160 and the win belonged to the visitors from the  valley.
hockett had a 4-1 lead at the end of the first period.
"as soon as they get it here, we'll release the funds and they're made whole, again," ray concluded.
atencio started down in the second period and armijo released him.
shaffer put pagosa on top for good with a put-back, then casey schutz hit a  pull-up jumper which mccoy matched with two in the paint and the pirates led  8-7 with 25 seconds left in the period.
discovering that fat cells are capable of sending signals to the body and learning how the body stores fat are just the tip of the iceberg.
as a community we can find more resources for people to utilize to reduce the number of people who are infected with addiction.
the falcon lead advanced to 27-12 as centauri's rory keys pinned orion  sandoval at 119.
this is not my opinion nor any attempt on my part to rewrite history.
roy d. vega do you care?
it's a lot easier to buy a prepared pie crust.
total fouls: pagosa springs 7.
slade is an artist in the true sense.
just sit and just enjoy  their antics if you like, or interact - but feel free to come in and say hi on  wednesday mornings.
we have lots of ideas, but we need the participation of our  members to make these plans successful.
the basic definition of an enterprise fund, according to burchett, "is an entity controlled the local government that derives its revenues from collections of external user fees.
simple numbers often are keys to predator success, numbers like 2012 on a  school jacket, indicating that's the year you'll graduate and thus giving the  predator instant knowledge of your current age.
evaluating your child's game right after the match is finished will drive them  away from the sport - and from you!
smith took second when he lost to a piedra vista athlete in the final.
pagosa was only two for nine from three-point land, but shot a withering 30 of 59 from inside the arc.
with all the building  going on, you should check out this new provider of quality insulation at  731-0153.
to lose weight, one takes in less calories than they burn and in most cases this strategy works.
mccoy answered with two inside, but another forrest jumper then a steal and  deuce from shaffer plus a pair of treys from forrest had pagosa in front 25-9  at 4:50.
that is why jesus christ gave his life.
county commissioners are too busy to check roads in horrible condition.
the show will be displayed through feb. 26.
initial weigh-in will be feb. 15 followed by a weekly weigh-in, all at the recreation center.
as players and coaches lined up for the traditional post-game handshake, a wolverine fan came on the floor and verbally accosted lynch for "running up the score."
meyer said ingraham began to pare down her life to expose only the essentials.
the pagosa pirate board work was outstanding, leading the visitors 34-12  paced by walkup's nine and five for forrest.
carmen said the "until it stops," phrase should be stressed  because many times adults fail to believe children's accusations because the  offender is known and trusted.
mrs. shirley fiedler, (daniel's mother and a faculty member at our savior lutheran school), organized afternoon classes with the korean students together with the fifth- and sixth-graders of the lutheran school.
parents knowingly sign their child up to give young athletes who want to work on their skills, and play in a more competitive environment the chance to do so.
"this summer we're especially pleased to host the full festival orchestra.
as a parent,  you should be wary of this!
therefore, if anyone is interested in participating in or finding out more information about the american red cross disaster team, contact either edie corwin at 264-0496 or me here at the chamber.
the building is located about a quarter mile west of  the pagosa lodge and is a large, well designed structure.
" as far as the pirates' chances go, janowsky is optimistic that a number of  the local wrestlers can place in the top four and move on.
the pagosa pirate press had her firing away from off-balance positions all night.
he later apologized for his actions.
to stay in the black, he said, the medical center requires an estimated $11,000 more each month in income.
state statute requires submission of county audits or applications for a 60-day extension by july 31.
he is survived by his wife lillian horvat-eoff and by his children:
for the game, after the terrible shooting early, pagosa was 29 of 65 from  the floor for a .446 percentage; bayfield was 12 of 32 for a .373 percentage.
the very best time to teach your youngster how to  improve their play is immediately after the game; ideally, in the car ride on  the way home while their game actions are still fresh in their mind.
i made it through my first annual chamber board retreat.
this workshop is offered several times throughout the year.
this benefit is getting more popular with businesses, so don't miss your chance.
featuresfeatures sexual assault danger continues to be underreported by tess noel baker staff writer "i thought if there was ever anything going on with my child, i'd know it.
that is not to say that all predators are male, but nationwide statistics show the biggest percentage are.
grandma simpson was my friend helen's grandmother whom she was always quoting.
when they succeed, they're closer to removing us from  effective roles in key political, social and economic processes, making us more  reliant on prepackaged information, on sources whose motives are often less  than supportive of the common good.
saturday, july 30, pianist aviram reichert will perform beethoven's piano concertos no. 3 and no. 5 at 6 p.m. with the full festival orchestra.
"if someone indicates online that they want to meet you,"  capistrant said, "ask yourself 'why'?, and 'what could you do for the  person asking for the meeting?" you should feel threatened, he said, "and you should let someone know  if the advance is made ... your teacher, your parent or us, the police." both he and keshet noted that among the many online threats to children,  i.e., exposure to pornography, harassment, and cyber stalking, there is a more  dangerous threat - cyber grooming.
local sex offender registries are available, carmen said.
232 to place your team on the 2005 schedule.
she is the secretary of the colorado asta with nsoa chapter and is an active clinician regionally and nationally.
interested parties should call morna trowbridge at 731-4718 to let her know you plan to attend or for more information.
sales tax revenues are another key component of the general fund, and the fund's revenues for this year are estimated at $1,375,000, equating to 50 percent of total sales tax collected annually by the county.
reasonable routes had to be available for people to enter and leave.
but this time it was senior guard  bri scott leading the way for pagosa with 12 markers in the frame.
property taxes are the primary source of revenues for the general fund, and the corresponding, effective mill levy rate for 2005 is set at 19.751, up from last year's levy of 18.760.
she has had a lot of experience with this subject in her naturopathic practice  and with her own near-death experience.
we will also award a $100 gift certificate to montezuma's restaurant and a $50 savings bond from citizen's bank.
books on all these topics and more can be found in one of our display cases, and all of these materials are available for checkout.
students will complete two paintings a day.
however, researchers have found that obese people often are  not sensitive to leptin; thus, it has little effect on their appetite and  calorie usage.
the  pirate took atencio down, released him and took him down again.
shaw and anderson combined for three additional monte points in the remaining 90 seconds, but pagosa got its second iml win at the horn by a final margin of 77-30.
they have funds for eight more sessions before june 30.
so put on your creative wool cap and give doug a call to get your entry  form.
where once the parent warned the child to look both ways before  crossing the street, or not to talk to strangers, with more and more children  every year going on the internet, there's a new set of precautions.
shepherd's staff truth: salvation is by faith, through grace by richard bolland our savior lutheran church
currently she  manages her own publishing company, the hi slade publishing company.
after all, transportation has always been important to the development of an area.
by carole howard special to the preview
working with ingraham, moller adapted the poetry into a 75-minute theatre presentation that moves and speaks with multi-cultural players and even in different languages.
valade cautioned the board the model did not take into account current unpaid debt, the $40,000 the district promised to make a "best effort" to return to the dr. mary fisher foundation, expenses incurred employing a temporary ems operations manager, pending employee settlements or employee buyouts necessary when the clinic closes.
durango had no silver or other metal-bearing ores.
this does not mean christians do not do good works, but our motivation for doing them is entirely different from all other religions in the world.
years later he was still calling me  from spots across the nation for advice on how to handle a sticky news event.
"do not release these funds until you are notified in writing to do so by this office," she added.
as with other religions, there exist factions from "ultra orthodox" to "reform judaism," but all are based on good works as the end of the faith.
on its doctrines are founded the peculiarities of our free institutions."
in their own house, they always give pagosa a tough encounter.
shaw and anderson combined for three additional monte points in the  remaining 90 seconds, but pagosa got its second iml win at the horn by a final  margin of 77-30.
i say most, because there are a couple of private collection cookbooks there that are not ours to catalog for circulation.
it was the centauri falcons who scored the greater number of bonus points  jan. 27 as they defeated the pirates 44-36 in a dual held in the pshs gym.
pagosa springs parks skating ponds are a problem, carvings set to begin by joe lister jr. sun columnist
cost of the workshop is $10.
there she held small parts in "knotts landing," "30-something" and "murder she wrote."
days have generally been sunshiny and skies have been clear.
subjects discussed will include star trail photography, painting with  light, equipment, etc.
this is a long-term plan, with the intention of protecting the watershed well into the future.
" it is that very suggestion that is the poison that keeps people coming back for more.
minimum six  students; maximum 15.
why didn't they know that somewhere in the neighborhood of 90-94 percent of sexual assaults are committed by someone known to the abuser?
my well-worn webster's new world dictionary of the american language, defines truth this way: "1.
the program is for individual income tax returns.
andersen will also cover composition and lighting issues as well.
the senior has been wrestling very well lately, and he continued to do so  against brian atencio.
the experiences and relationships will be lifelong.
the pagosah unitarian universalist fellowship is sponsoring the series by joelle riddle from the durango office of planned parenthood of the rocky mountains.
the howard deans, the barbara boxers, the michael moores, the ted kennedys and the hate bush crowd energized the american people to vote republican.
she  drilled six of six from the floor in the period and added a free throw. thus, bayfield's 13-point deficit was suddenly at 29 points after the  pirate third-period effort.
monday, feb. 7 - tuna noodle casserole, mixed vegetables, zucchini, whole wheat roll and peaches.
for inclusion in artsline, send  information to psac e-mail (psac@centurytel.net).
first, starting when they're young, you should teach your child how to behave not only after a loss, but also after a win.
in its wake, 37 competitors from the pagosa show will take their projects to la plata county fairgrounds in durango for regional competition feb. 17.
as players and coaches lined up for the traditional post-game handshake, a  wolverine fan came on the floor and verbally accosted lynch for "running  up the score."
the five iml teams will be joined at regionals  by colorado springs christian, manitou springs, st. mary's, rock canyon, platte  canyon, florence and trinidad.
not far behind was forrest, who finished with 22 points and nine boards.
the person who plows the oak drive and simmons bus turnaround as well as  blue windmill bus stop.
there is little in the public domain that should be kept secret, yet we are  repeatedly faced with the actions of politicos who would enact laws and use  existing laws to keep the public from knowing as much as possible, keeping  themselves, their cohorts and their interests out of the public eye.
in order to paint loosely and control the paints and water on paper, an artist must know the rules, then he or she is free to break them.
three-point goals: craig schutz 1,  przybylski 1, shaffer 2, forrest 2.
according to claudia smith, a member of the big box task force established last summer, economic research centering on superstore developments is expected to be complete by the end of march.
gutierrez finally broke the drought to open the fourth period with a  three-pointer for monte and later converted a free throw.
with over 12 years experience as a taxidermist, charley produces high quality, detailed and lifelike mounts of elk, deer, bear, mountain lion, fish, birds and exotics.
she has played recitals for the chautauqua institute in new york, the scotia festival of music in nova scotia, for cbc radio, for the national public radio on wbfo: for the "opus, classics live" series at the university of buffalo, and for the "piano bench" series on kpbx, spokane public radio.
any one of those factors, capistrant said, can help the seasoned predator  accustomed to chat room techniques, find out who you are.
citizens were expected to be ready to go at 8:30 a.m. - so should everyone else, involved, no exceptions.
lord, lord of hosts, be with us yet lest we forget to shovel that snow off  the sidewalk.
it is the hour to do the right thing - abdicate - expeditiously.
new camera owners and recent converts from film cameras will benefit equally from the classes.
shaffer matched a trey from monte's curtis barbosa with a three-point play,  then jones and pagosa sophomore casey hart traded two apiece to make it 74-24  at 3:40.
they promote the same old failed programs.