what can happen to the woman who has this problem?
if a woman in your community is experiencing one of these problems, what can she and her family do?
read more... a good laugh helps break the tension.
you want to love and cherish her again.
do you recognise yourself in any of that?
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to  soothe your screaming newborn!!!
each priority area has an objective with corresponding activities to attain the goal.
c. to elicit husband/male influential perspective on preparation women and families now make for birth, particularly their current role in preparations/support and potential roles; feasibility and acceptability of birth preparedness; and to understand motivations of men to participate in preparing for the birth and ensuring skilled attendance at delivery.
will i ever sleep again?
children love their parents and want  to be with them.
what happens if women and their families can’t pay these fees?
read more... help your child cope with divorce many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
about 200 million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
things you definitely don’t want to expose your children to.
read more... dads hold up half the sky fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters  a lot for kids!
open communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
in it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on when you don’t know what to do next.
that's one of the reasons  we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death  or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro  long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and  life changing task.
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope with the divorce of their parents.
below is a list of some behaviors that children should be protected from.
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do it
b. to determine factors that underlie household and community level delays in seeking skilled care for normal births and in obstetric emergencies, particularly their own role but also the specific role of other household and community influentials.
understanding something about those stages can help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually just a part of growing up.
in fact, it may be a major barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility  to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children  from adult conflicts.
so here are a few tips to help you make it  through those (short) nights.
whether or not your children say it or show it, you  can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around  it.
about  half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including  chromosomal problems.
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the  liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means  much more than the textbook definition.
do you use domestic violence?
read more... children's ways of love individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is  also very individual.
during a woman’s pregancy, does her husband do anything to prepare for childbirth?
if the woman wants to go a health facility, can she go even his without permission?
read  more... can men get the baby blues?
sit and read a book for 10 minutes.
men are even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses, partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
of course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!read more... could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
children's expectations of you and your ex marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter  is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
of  course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
do you want them to connect one heart to another?
when a woman is pregnant, are men involved in any discussion about where she’s going to delivery the baby?
as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be involved in your child's life.
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest  wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say,  "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?"
in the  twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard  many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
wordsworth read more... five commandments for today's family man two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the  proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
if a pregnant woman and her family have different ideas about where she should deliver or which preparations should be made, whose opinion in the family is the final decision?
play is "the work of children".
so why should they accept it from any other man?
who is involved in discussing and making these arrangements?
activities with infants as your child grows older she will want different things from her  engagement with you.
but during those bleary early weeks, when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out where to start.
read more... many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
questions to ask: 8.
read more... kids love talking!
the answer is we simply do not know.
she studied a group of 131 children and  their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25  years.
ask each of the following questions: a) is there anything that they can try at home to solve the problem?
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as  all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
d. to explore husband/male influential support and perceived consequences of tba compared to care by a skilled attendant during and after delivery, and their perspective on the preferences of women now for birth attendant and birth location, and reasons why women do or do not use skilled care (barriers, motivators, willingness to change).
read more... is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a new single dad with children at home?
is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married to the mother of his child?
what are barriers to delivering in health facilities?
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other would be useless.
recognition that the family is the basic and most fundamental unit of society, a dynamic unit engaged in an intertwined process of individual and group development, justifies the need to place the african family at the core of society which needs to be strengthened as part of africa’s development process.
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your children.
that’s a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
what dads-to-be dream about could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
like any mystery,  the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining,  baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at  once...
yet, no parental  action has a greater impact on children.
i want to ask you questions about what men in your community think about this issue, because we know that men are important in the family.
if there is, i can't imagine it.
creative stories are a chance to build a great and loving memory.
over the years  my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has  developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different  families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and  beliefs.
as a  dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may  open a floodgate of dreams.
for taking the time to talk to me/us.
it takes  special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for the sake of the kids.
if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in denial or not paying attention!
after all,  we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in  the process.
if work takes you away from your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
can men get  something like the baby blues as well as women?
say: i’d like to ask you about how women and their families prepare for childbirth.
whether or not your children say it or show it, you can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around it.
managing your anger ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever  realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!
ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
non-violent relationships: a role for fathers good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they  lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their  children.
families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems that create conflict and stress.
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile environment of the vagina.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial  elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose  it...'
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear, you're only normal.
understand how a marriage can be rebuilt after an affair.
the  registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point  for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
read more... when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
it can cause an exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
read more... as your child grows older she will want different things from her engagement with you.
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of  the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile  environment of the vagina.
fathers play a critical role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from abuse and neglect.
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best  to help dads bond with their babies.
is there anything specific they want to know more about?
your family can be your greatest source of  support, comfort and love.
we must understand these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work effectively with fathers and families.
read more we have an explicit commitment to gender equity and the un convention on the rights of the child (crc).
however, when you are  away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
for each problem ask: a) have any of your wives or close female relatives ever had that problem?
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
read on for some advice and reassurance that there is a sex life after baby!read more...
read  more... dads and breastfeeding breast is best!!!
will your baby be born with ten  fingers and ten toes?
or maybe you've been dreaming about your grandparents?
a father is the first man his daughter knows.
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a  daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
if yes: do they have favorite programs?
will your baby be born with ten fingers and ten toes?
whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are similar...
relationships with children are much like plants, they need constant nourishing!
next time you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their granparents.
you want to love and cherish her  again.
you haven't had a real conversation for weeks.
individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is also very individual.
and even through attempts at reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
what kind of transportation can they take to get to a health facility?
read more... men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often from their dad.
i  really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day  left me feeling empty.
the creation of appropriate structures, mechanisms and capacities for responding to the challenges facing the family are an integral part of the plan of action.
quick discipline strategies a good laugh helps break the tension.
once the initial settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
some anthropologists even suggest that current social trends could bring us closer to the good old days of hunter-gatherer fathering.
these hurdles may seem silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
the effects of divorce on children and how to cope
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the  effects ofdivorce on children.
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed in this article.
what happens it’s time for a woman to deliver her baby but her husband’s not available?
everyone is more aware than ever of the need to involve men in reproductive health programmes.
you haven't had a real conversation  for weeks.
or maybe you've been dreaming about your  grandparents?
there have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on children.
how much influence does the woman herself have over where she’s going to deliver?
do you think that they should have this kind of discussion?
are you concerned that your behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in  harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
these hurdles may seem silly,  unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
counselling is a major  factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv  testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
what do women not like about delivering with a tba?
you can also find other dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you believe society expects of a male parent.
family therapy can help families  identify and resolve problems.
pending fatherhood can make you think about your family's roots.
should you stay together for the  sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your  kids?
and most  of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
myths surrounding children and divorce
with time, you and your baby will develop your own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
there is growing evidence  that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that  positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
before the baby is born, you may find  that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that  they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
questions to ask: 1.
i had phoned my wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
in a study of smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking mother).
do you want those words to have real meaning to your child?
in fact, it may be a major  barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
these days, for urban dads it's more unusual if he isn't there.
what's that?read more...
a contributing factor to both low commitment and knowledge about african fatherhood is the low numbers of fathers who register their names on their children's birth certificates.
it seems some parents can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for their children.
it is in this context that, in decision ex/cl/65 (iii), the heads of state and government, meeting at maputo in july 2003, mandated “the au commission, in collaboration with unicef and other social partners to elaborate a plan of action on the family in africa, which will constitute africa’s contribution to the tenth anniversary of the iyf”.
focus group discussion guide: men interview schedule interviewer comments: interviewer code date district location venue time: from to focus group discussion with group of men of reproductive age respondent code: ethnicity: participants names: distance to facility w/ maternity: (less than 5km) (more than 5km) closest facility w/ surgical capacity: research objectives: a. to explore husbands' and other male influentials' motivations and barriers to being involved in: birth preparedness, promoting skilled attendance, using skilled care.
read more... be there for her!
as  we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
read more... it's up to you!
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and  especially fathers.
your family can be your greatest source of support, comfort and love.
it is generally accepted that children learn both good and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
but during those bleary early weeks,  when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out  where to start.
say: i’m also interested to hear how women around here learn about childbirth.
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of the date of birth.
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child development as motherhood!
what is the role of the father who is present at the birth of his child?
who helps in planning and making preparations for birth?
questions to ask: 12.
as the core of the society, the family can be seen in three dimensions: firstly, as a psycho-biological unit where members are linked together by blood ties – kinship relationship, personal feelings and emotional bonds of its members; secondly, as a social unit where members live together in the same household and share tasks and social functions; and thirdly as the basic economic production unit.
read more... how to be more involved with your baby
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you  believe society expects of a male parent.
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children from adult conflicts.
wordsworthread more... two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
but they are not silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to fathers.
are there other plans that you think they should make in advance?
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your marriage.
remember that as difficult as it may  be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of  their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
do you think that men would be interested in learning more about these issues?
out of all these problems, which do you think are the most serious?
is he a labor coach, advocate or partner?
in most men, 15 to 45  million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only  400 survive after a man ejaculates.
and, when you consider the benefits, why not?
but it is certainly much harder, and  it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children  that he needs to.
how soon after the birth should she go?
and even through attempts at  reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
this could mean that you're worried that pregnancy will damage your sex life.
how easy or difficult would it be to make these kinds of plans?
who should initiate a conversation on this topic? 2.
that’s exceedingly rare.
read more how many children on the african continent are without fathers in their lives?
read  more... bonding with the new baby when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a  challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief, fear, guilt, shame.
and most of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
divorce: your child's perspective children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during  and after divorce.
we support the importance of mothering and mothers’ rights to children, and we highlight the importance of parents working co-operatively for the interests of children.
who should go with her?
single, separated and divorced fathers
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and grief.
what are all the places for delivery women and their families consider?
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with  someone besides your partner?
fathers and smoking parental smoking is a significant issue.
creative stories are a chance to build  a great and loving memory.
that's one of the reasons we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
how do they help a woman feel more comfortable?
the new partnership for africa’s development (nepad) reaffirms that africa’s development begins with the quality of its human resources and in this context, the african family is the most important human resource.
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and  grief.
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use  abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do  it
partnerships among all concerned stakeholders are mandatory for the effective implementation, follow-up and monitoring of the plan of action on the family in africa.
around here, what types of complications can women have? complications during late pregnancy?
for many couples, being together is what feels right.
she studied a group of 131 children and their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25 years.
and yet dads often feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge getting there.
if a woman has a normal delivery and a healthy baby and feels well, should she go for a check-up for herself?
facts about men's fertility men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was  astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
e. renkel it is much easier to become a father than to be one. ~kent
do you think that women should go to a health facility after they deliver to get a check-up for themselves?
family therapy can help families identify and resolve problems.
how do men view early postpartum care on a routine basis?
although african governments have put in place institutions and programmes directed to the family, a lot still remains to be done.
where do they usually get this kind of information?
say: some women experience complications in late pregnancy, childbirth and the first weeks after delivery.
our best solution for this natural by-product of humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
are you concerned that your  behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
with time, you and your baby will develop your  own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly  stand to have the old man around.
can men get something like the baby blues as well as women?
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to soothe your screaming newborn!!!
why do they like those programs?
the screaming and crying will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved rest.
here's how it's done: read more... boxers or briefs?
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly stand to have the old man around.
it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than  to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child  development as motherhood!
males take on the job of parental care in only 5 percent of mammalian species, according to research cited in "fatherhood: evolution and parental behavior.
there are times when too much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too hard.
for example, one daughter may receive love best when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her something.
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the  new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
do not read objectives out loud to interviewee!
do you want to use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your heartfelt affection for your children?
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear,  you're only normal.
you can also find other  dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply involves creating a new branch.
read more... disciplining for dads one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate  discipline for their children.
dads love to have fun with  their kids, at least the great ones do.
if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying  around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting  — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
so the short answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of the expectant mother.
many dads i meet  share this mistaken idea: read more... infidelity: mending your marriage after an affair infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief,  fear, guilt, shame.
how are each of these arrangements made?
dads love to have fun with their kids, at least the great ones do.
however, when you are away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
in this regard, it is necessary to develop and implement social policies to address the various concerns of families.
read  more... do you have to be at your baby's birth?
our best solution for this natural by-product of  humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your  friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
read more by now you should have noticed changes in your fitness and strength as well as in your body.
but if you ask most dads, you'll find that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own special ways to soothe their babies.
ever felt that your anger was getting  the best of you?
maybe you have thought of something that we have left out.
be it gardening together,  singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the  ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help  them to develop into happy healthy children.
that’s  a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
the various sections on this page should give you some basic reassurance!read more... is playing with dolls manly?
we can work this out.
if so, consider strengthening 'i love you' with the following suggestions.
dads don't get a lot of credit for  being soothing, nurturing types.
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts and heal wounds.
so here are a few tips to help you make it through those (short) nights.
and they love grandparents.
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
are you worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?read more... miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
at what times do those programs air?
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a  poster.
a management information system (mis) is proposed for continuous data collection, analysis, utilisation, dissemination, storage and retrieval of information on the status of the family at all levels.
do they ask women and their families to purchase any items or pay any fees?
counselling is a major factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
in a study of  smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months  old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking  mother).
in addition, it resolves to take up the multifaceted challenges that confront the continent and peoples in light of the social, economic and political changes taking place in the world.
what would make it easier for women and their families to make these kinds of plans?
birth preparedness notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: what types of routine preparations are made for childbirth?
i’d like to ask you some questions now about why this is.
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting  in an early miscarriage.
staying together for the sake of the kids which is better for your kids?
it is generally accepted that children learn both good  and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
say: as you know women deliver their babies at different places – at their own homes, tbas homes, and health facilities.
open  communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and  patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
but it is certainly much harder, and it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children that he needs to.
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means much more than the textbook definition.
it's you she wants in the delivery room be there for her!
try to agree with your ex the following.
read on for some advice and reassurance that  there is a sex life after baby!
it takes special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
what do they like about delivering there?
as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be  controlled.
it can cause an  exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in  turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
if so, consider strengthening 'i love  you' with the following suggestions.
things you definitely don’t want to  expose your children to.
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but the rewards are great.
fortunately, most blended families are able  to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the effects ofdivorce on children.
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than what anyone else tells her!read more...
whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
infection, injury, congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use  violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
will you be a good dad?
who else is involved?
as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be  involved in your child's life.
read more... one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate discipline for their children.
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply  involves creating a new branch.
when an affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed  in this article.
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts  and heal wounds.
raising your daughter every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his  daughter’s life!
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your  marriage.
read more... how your child's behaviour changes as they grow not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do  pass through the same stages.
yet, no parental action has a greater impact on children.
situations of family and relationship violence impact couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
read more... sometimes the poorest man leaves his children the richest inheritance.
sex and the new dad how long until we ...?
a small percentage of men have a blockage in  their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate  fluid.
at least one-third of all children will be part of a stepfamily before they reach age 18.
dad's at a distance - working away relationships with children are much like plants, they need  constant nourishing!
there are strong physical and emotional  impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
around here, are men ever away when their wives go into labor?
the professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
after another process called capacitation (an explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization and conception.
do you want those words to have real meaning to  your child?
how are men, specifically, involved?
during the first few weeks after childbirth?
below is a list of some behaviors that  children should be protected from.
what do you think can happen once they get to a health facility?
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily  through the activities and time spent with your children.
what are potential outlets for health-related messages, including radio?
they can guide you where to go.
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with someone besides your partner?
after all, we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
c) which health facilities can they go to?
research into the roots of our species suggests that stronger bonds between fathers and their children played a role in shaping society as we know it.
read more... real dads play dolls is playing with dolls manly?
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new coping skills and improve how your family works together.
questions to ask: 14.
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only the father smokedread more... face your fear.
that belief is of little  use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
say: we talked about preparing for delivery, and about giving birth.
there are many times i just don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get from my girls.
questions to ask: 4.
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other  would be useless.
registering baby's birth
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of  the date of birth.
read more... marriage counseling
then discuss it with your child or children.
cognizant of the multidimensional challenges facing the family the world over, the united nations and other regional and national agencies have tried to pay particular attention to family problems.
read more... manage your portion sizes and take the following tips into consideration.
the list of potential adjustments is long, and it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
lack of  sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers  and mothers...
many dads i meet share this mistaken idea:read more...
after another process called capacitation (an  explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough  outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization  and conception.
the plan of action focuses on nine priority areas: poverty alleviation; rights to social services - education, health and reproductive health; promoting environmental sustainability - environment, water and sanitation, adequate shelter and land ownership; rights, duties and responsibilities; rights of protection for the family; strengthening family relationships; control of major causes of morbidity and mortality; ensuring peace and security; and follow-up, evaluation and monitoring.
before the baby is born, you may find that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
and yet dads often  feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge  getting there.
william klatte has written an insightful book calledlive-away dads.
the main objective of the plan of action is to advocate for the promotion, formulation, implementation and monitoring of policies and programmes to ensure the protection of and support to the african family so as to enable it play its vial role more effectively in the development of africa.
how do men feel about planning for obstetric emergencies?
say: this is part of a study to learn more about how we can help women be healthier in pregnancy and childbirth.
be it gardening together, singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help them to develop into happy healthy children.
now i would just like to ask you a few more questions about the time right after childbirth.
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say, "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?"read more...
when an  affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed  — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
read more... listen to her - and then listen some more girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
instead of backing  the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
i have watched this  closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been  separated and preparing for divorce.
lack of sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers and mothers...
read more... it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
what do staff at health facilities do to help women during delivery?
the adjustments for dad, mum and kids are major.
in some measures, father-love is more important.
but they are not silly, unnecessary,  or insignificant to fathers.
but if you ask most dads, you'll find  that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own  special ways to soothe their babies.
what is the role of  the father who is present at the birth of his child?
the  professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence  suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is  as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.”
they can guide you  where to go.
early postpartum care notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: what are customary practices during the first two weeks after childbirth?
we must understand  these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work  effectively with fathers and families.
fortunately, most blended families are able to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first,  that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
what kinds of arrangements do they make if they decide to go to a health facility?
why do you think some women deliver with tbas and others deliver by themselves or with family members?
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation: read more... 10 dad-tested ways to soothe a crying baby waaaaah!!!
say: thank you for answering all our questions about giving birth.
role and responsibility of men: the signers of the icpd programme of action agreed that it is important for men to take more responsibility for their sexual and reproductive behaviour and family life.
i had phoned my  wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only  the father smoked read more... how to share in your partner's pregnancy face your fear.
to  help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william  wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
discipline is all about modifying  behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
in the twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
your answers have been very helpful.
the list of potential adjustments is long, and  it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no heart-to-hearts.
girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
the birth - tips for dads if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in  denial or not paying attention!
she's not made of porcelain!
this page contains  resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
there are strong physical and emotional impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship  with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
what do tbas do to help women during delivery?
men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open  but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often  from their dad.
there are times when too  much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too
like any mystery, the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining, baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at once...
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first, that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
w hy do you think some women deliver at health facilities and others deliver their babies at home and/or with tbas?
read more... many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
rather, the plan of action on the african family reinforces the focus on the family and aims to create linkages between the activities proposed and existing initiatives as well as build upon gains already made.
children love their parents and want to be with them.
i have been violent or abusive and i need help 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner she is scared of  me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen  again -
daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are  similar...
read more... children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during and after divorce.
fathers play a critical  role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from  abuse and neglect.
dealing with miscarriage miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
these days, for urban dads it's  more unusual if he isn't there.
there are many times i just  don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in  the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working  away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get  from my girls.
they let their  daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the  norm.
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word  go: read more...
making the most of visits with the kids many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an  often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with  their children.
who’s involved in the conversation?
they let their daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the norm.
stepfathering stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a  situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
if yes: what do they do?
read more... five worries about fathering our daughters
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
although most moms wish the man in the house would take more of a role in childraising, things could be worse.
find ways to keep anger under  control as you work with your children.
is it a topic they discuss with their friends?
whether it's you,  your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family  therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
this page contains resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose it...' do you recognise yourself in any of that?
should you stay together for the sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your kids?
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or  excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
children in blended families may at first  resist the many changes they face.
blended families stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm  now than ever.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!read more... how long until we ...?
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your  shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
b) do you know anyone who had that problem?
if you are like almost every other new father you are not alone!
do women and their families ever make plans in advance in case problems like these occur?
read more... a peaceful divorce?
whether it's you, your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
infection, injury,  congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be thinking, feeling and needing from you.
the intensifying impact of hiv/aids and other pandemics on the socio-economically productive sector of the population, especially young women, is putting unprecedented strain on the family.
to effectively address these challenges, there is a need for an integrated approach that places the family at the centre of a comprehensive development agenda, aimed at sustaining the its integrity.
skilled care for obstetric emergencies notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: what do men know about obstetric complications?
then discuss it  with your child or children.
read more... tell your kids you love them!
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new  coping skills and improve how your family works together.
stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
do you want to  use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your  heartfelt affection for your children?
other constraints faced by the african family include: the debt burden, poor governance, high unemployment rate, inadequate social security mechanisms, rural to urban migration, gender inequality, displacement and disintegration of family.
"read more page 1 of 4 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner she is scared of me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen again -
a small percentage of men have a blockage in their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate fluid.
children in blended families may at first resist the many changes they face.
it seems some parents  can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for  their children.
for many couples, being together is what feels  right.
if she doesn’t go to a health facility, should she go to a tba?
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study, published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
about 200  million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
you'd be odd if you weren't afraid.
what are the best parts about delivering with a tba?
parental smoking is a significant issue.
i'm in control so you are safe.
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to  the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that  dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children  and themselves.
do men around here ever listen to the radio?
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no  heart-to-hearts.
the various sections on this page  should give you some basic reassurance!
the plan of action will serve as a framework to guide member states in developing or evaluating appropriate national strategies and programmes on the african family and does not replace or underplay the role of other ongoing initiatives such as the millennium development goals (mdgs), poverty reduction strategy papers (prsps) and nepad.
playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children and themselves.
marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
discipline is all about modifying behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
over the years my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and beliefs.
is he a labor coach,  advocate or partner?
why? b) where can they go to get help in your community?
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best to help dads bond with their babies.
understanding something about those stages can  help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually  just a part of growing up.
read more... healing family conflicts families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems  that create conflict and stress.
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing,  cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
read more... dads play with kids can make a big difference
in most men, 15 to 45 million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only 400 survive after a man ejaculates.
read more... many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with their children.
skilled care at childbirth notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: where do women prefer to deliver?
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may threaten to tear your family apart.
it's my child - and i'm proud to be his dad!!!
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and life changing task.
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they  can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
read more... not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do pass through the same stages.
how much does it cost?
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study,  published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t  “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a  life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
in africa, the family is an equally important institution of society but it is undergoing tremendous changes and facing many formidable challenges thus increasing pressures on the family, including: increasing poverty, civil strives and conflicts; and vulnerability.
once the initial  settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
several ngos are also conducting research to determine what men's reproductive health needs are, and to better understand their sexual, marital, parenting, and family decision-making roles.
tips on stress set aside time for yourself.
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
but not everyone feels the same.
why do you think women sometimes deliver their babies at home?
read more... stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm now than ever.
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children  who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for  the sake of the kids.
should they have this kind of discussion?
remember that as difficult as it may be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
the screaming and crying  will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved  rest.
good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their children.
yes, fathers are vulnerable to similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.
set aside time for yourself.
the registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
are you  worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?
married fathers is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married  to the mother of his child?
here's how it's done:read more... men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
can women leave the house whenever they want after childbirth?
as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
at least one-third of all children will be part of a  stepfamily before they reach age 18.
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and especially fathers.
are there exceptions?
dealing with anger - your own and your child's divorce can bring out the worst in people.
a landmark in the un’s effort to address family concerns was the declaration of 1994 as the international year of the family (iyf).
~mark twain father! - to god himself we cannot give a holier name.
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set  the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than  what anyone else tells her!
situations of family and relationship violence impact  couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
two decades ago it was unusual for a  father to be there when his child was born.
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a poster.
how do men first know what happens during childbirth and the time just after?
but, it may be a while.
family therapy can help your family weather such storms.
read more... which is better for your kids?
family therapy can help your family weather  such storms.
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy  development of their children and that positive father involvement has a  beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
read more... 5 myths of fatherhood
in  it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on  when you don’t know what to do next.
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope  with the divorce of their parents.
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
who is the decision-maker for delivery location and preparations for birth?
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may  threaten to tear your family apart.
this could mean that you're worried that  pregnancy will damage your sex life.
is there anything else that you’d like to tell me/ us about your experience?
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be  thinking, feeling and needing from you.
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
storytelling made easy why tell stories?
the constitutive act of the african union (au) articulates the determination of member states to promote peoples’ rights, consolidate democratic institutions and culture, and to ensure good governance and the rule of law.
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
that belief is of little use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
to help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
next time  you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their  granparents.
it would be helpful to hear more about these problems.
men are  even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses,  partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
read more... how to adjust to life as a single father is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a  new single dad with children at home?
communication channels notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: how do pregnant women get information and support from their household and community?
instead of backing the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but  the rewards are great.
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way  to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
there  have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on  children.
for example, one daughter may receive love best  when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a  set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her  something.
about half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including chromosomal problems.
divorce can bring out the worst in people.
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self  control--we can't lose ours in the process.
that’s  exceedingly rare.
e. to explore husbands/male influentials’ knowledge and perceptions of problems, complications, and emergencies in birth and early postpartum, when and where they should be cared for, and perceptions of emergency care providers.
read more... illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word go:read more... ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
how soon after a woman gives birth can she first leave her house?
do you know what causes that problem?
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your  children.
what do family members do to help?
will you love your baby?
i really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day left me feeling empty.
when are these arrangements made?
do you think that men should be involved in these kinds of preparations?
dads don't get a lot of credit for being soothing, nurturing types.
if work takes you away from  your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and  her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
if there is, i can't  imagine it.
other than friends and family, how do men learn about other health-related topics?
will labour go smoothly?
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation:read more... waaaaah!!!
read more... prevention of hiv transmission to infants many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child  treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
as a dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may open a floodgate of dreams.
it is, therefore, imperative to provide sustained support and encourage cohesion of the family to enable it play its role.
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting in an early miscarriage.
pursuant to this was resolution cm/res 1466 (lviii) of the then oau, urging member states to give priority to the preparation for and observance of the iyf and establish national coordinating committees or similar mechanisms for the year.
read more... fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters a lot for kids!
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing, cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
so the short  answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of  the expectant mother.
two decades ago it was unusual for a father to be there when his child was born.
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of  domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
dig where you stand - kids family history activity kids love talking!
i have watched this closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been separated and preparing for divorce.
activities for dads and kids playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
all children deserve a chance to grow up unafraid.
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily through the activities and time spent with your children.
you'd  be odd if you weren't afraid.
if yes: where are they usually (probe for migrant work, etc.)?
so, given  the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions  for tackling this important task successfully.
common fertility problems for men blockages.
where do they usually assist deliveries – at their own homes or at women’s homes?
every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his daughter’s life!
how do they treat the people who come with the woman to the health facility, like her family members or a tba?
yes, fathers are vulnerable to  similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can  become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.