meals are spectacular.
hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style:
that village has wonderful adventure sports like  dog-sledding, cross country skiing, and snowmobiling.
the position of the hotel is particularly appealing because it is in a relatively quiet, calm area given its central location.
el capitan is a delightful family alternative to the fancier resorts of santa barbara and a great outdoor experience.
ribagnac, you feel like you’ve made friends for life.
we stayed in casa janine, a three-story villa adjacent to a restored church with one-room suites on each level and wonderful views of the surrounding countryside.
colle san paolo city/region:  umbria  accommodation category: resort location:  countryside   standard: upscale   style:  traditional cb!
one particularly nice feature is the affordable childrens menu given that the restaurant is the only option for meals and you cant keep food in cabins because of bears.
hotel londra palace city/region: venice/veneto   accommodation category: hotel location: city    standard: upscale   style: old world cb!
there are daily onsite children's activities; some are complimentary and some have a small fee.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens casa craig is an upscale apartment with beautiful views.
traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we love the extensive activities offered at the fairmont scottsdale including a childrens program, multiple swimming pools (one with 2 long, curvy slides), a lake where you can fish, golf, and a full spa.
directly across the road to the beautiful beach.
cabanas for rental for safe sun-time.
cook in or walk to  fabulous family friendly restaurant on resort premises or next door to the  sheraton.
the historic  lodge is casual and comfortable—kids of all ages are everywhere.
hotel santa caterina city/region: amalfi coast   accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we’ve been going  to aspen for 4-5 weeks every summer for years and i know of no condo-hotel that  is nicer or better run in aspen than the gant.
my kids enjoyed the heidi house - a supervised play area with activities and movies.
there's also a great snack bar and gift shop with delicious breakfasts.
part of kimpton  hotels, it's boutique feel and kids welcome—including pint sized robes  upon request—can tempt you away from the mountain for some downtime.
what distinguishes this property from others is the number of onsite amenities for this category of accommodation - guests have self-catering units with access to vast grass area plus a lovely swimming pool, tennis courts, a bocce court, a basketball court, a spa, and a state-of-the-art gym.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action glendine country house is a gorgeous, historic georgian manor.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we love that the family-oriented winnetu hotel is located literally across the street from the beach.
allen house city/region:
families with 4 or more people can easily fit into connecting rooms.
this location is one of the most beautiful, idyllic parts of  the region and the views are outrageous.
jean-michel cousteau fiji islands resort city/region: savusavu accommodation category: hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
the mount washington resort offers rooms, suites, and also townhouse units where you have access to all hotel facilities with more living space and kitchens.
horses and cows are nearby and will come by to say hello - a fun event for  kids.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we love the beautiful setting of this hotel in the adirondack mountains and the location is wonderful - just a 2-minute walk from the town of lake placid and a 10-minute drive to the ski area.
it's a 10 minute walk into the small town of st. remy which has plenty of good restaurants and shops.
you can stay in a safari tent equipped with comfortable  beds with luxurious bed linens, down comforters, and daily maid service.
hotel del coronado city/region: san diego accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: luxurious style: traditional cb!
resort location: seaside standard: luxurious style:
we love that this hotel is steps away from the place des vosges square  – a beautiful patch of greenery in a magnificent setting – perfect  for younger children who need a fun place to run around.
the design was incredible and there is an ice slide which is very entertaining.
there are nice beaches and restaurants in  the area.
nice home-base for area exploration including  imola, ravenna, and bologna.
its easy to go between the pool and beach.
dining  opportunities are numerous and delicious.
the sporting club in bellagio offers a swimming pool, sunbeds, tennis, and a restaurant.
there is a long list of activities for families that want to be busy or you can just chill out.
the pool service is great and we also appreciated the close proximity to a grocery store with organic produce and other nice items.
regis  san francisco city/region: san francisco bay area  accommodation  category: hotel location: city   standard:  luxurious   style:
the staff is extremely attentive and willing to assist with every need!
you can be active all day or just lounge by the pool or beach.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens what separates this resort from other properties is the exceptional level  of service—we’ve stayed all over the world yet we were blown away by  the gracious staff at the rosewood mayakoba.
blue heaven city/region: jamaica  accommodation category: villa location: seaside   standard: upscale   style:
dinner, served one night a week, is high class and  recommended - the owners participate and the chef is great.
the town is cute and the overall area is perfect for walking and bike riding.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun quiet and surrounded by beautiful, unspoiled countryside, les limornieres is the perfect place to relax and unwind with your kids.
the pool entertains most kids through the early evening.
one highlight for me about this location with kids is that you don't have to deal with all the adult-focused venues of the strip.
resort location: countryside   standard: luxurious    style: old world cb!
hotel location: lake standard: upscale style: contemporary cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action charming villa located in the hills outside of florence (10-minute cab ride into the city) which was a respite from the crowds of the city and the pool a great relief with kids after a day of sightseeing in the heat of the tuscan summers.
white elephant city/region: nantucket accommodation category: hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
when we arrived, the kitchen was stocked with fruit, fresh baked goods, and wine terrific!
some community recommended properties have also been evaluated by ciao  bambino and meet our strict quality standards - these properties are identified  by the cb!
villa guests can use the round hill facilities which include a kids club.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action i discovered this boutique hotel while traveling on business.
it is eco-friendly and all guests stay in private bungalows.
huge open kitchen/dining and family area with a large fireplace.
great care has been taken to make sure guests  are not inconvenienced while at the resort.
kid's club for meals  with activities so parents can eat in on-site restaurant.
although the casita units are inland with a  jungle view, the setting is stunning.
the resort offers daily  yoga, exercise classes and even mountain biking and hiking through the tuscan  hills.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action walking distance from downtown sonoma, macarthur place is an integrated inn and spa.
omni mount washington resort city/region: new hampshire accommodation category:
it has interesting artwork  and a unique character and the staff was wonderful with the children.
lanais are glass-lined and feature all you need to dine al fresco  every night.
the lagoon is great for families given that the beach is on open ocean with wild surf.
the kids program is run during the holidays only  and includes cooking classes and garden tours.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action almyra is an upscale property yet very accommodating with kids.
all villa units have private dining terraces  and spacious outdoor living areas.
since it's part of the joie de vivre hotels, you can build frequency points as  well.
every level of riding is available here.
hotel  letizia city/region: sicily  accommodation category: hotel location: city   standard: upscale    style: boutique cb!
fairmont kea lani city/region: maui accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style:
rooms open up to a grassy garden; families can sleep in one room or opt for  connecting rooms.
red horse mountain ranch city/region: rocky mountains accommodation category: ranch location: mountains standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
the kids loved this small, eco-inn with its natural pool and huge bathrooms.
amenities and services are top notch in every way.
there are lovely outdoor areas for dining al fresco and the views are  spectacular.
other spa treatments are extra, such as couples mud treatments, a dead sea grotto, massage, facials, etc.
there is a long list of activities for all ages.
the position of this hotel in a forest above a village is magical.
located in the heart of the loire valley in a  tranquil and rural setting, it's close to the best vineyards, castles, and  towns to explore with kids.
hotel location: seaside standard: simple style: traditional cb!
contemporary cb! age rating: school age action, cool for teens the pod has roof-top patio with fabulous views of the city.
this resort is a wonderful place for families who  love the great outdoors.
the somerset city/region: turks and caicos accommodation category:
two thumbs up for the kids club!
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens the inn at sugar bowl is one of the few moderately priced tahoe accommodations that is ski-in/ski-out.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens los suenos is situated in a gorgeous area where everything is at your  fingertips.
hotel location:  seaside   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
koloa landing city/region: kauai accommodation category:
there is a large white sand beach the all  inclusive buffet makes it easy to feed kids and adults with many choices.
the concierge service is unbelievablethe staff will manage anything and everything you need.
the property also features tennis, a marina, and an onsite dolphin adventure program.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we loved our experience at spring creek ranch.
the buffet breakfast is included and great.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens what makes the evergreen lodge special is the summer camp-style activities.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens situated in a beautiful traditional greek village away from the hustle and bustle of the touristy areas of santorini, vadema resort is peaceful and luxurious getaway overlooking the sea.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens luxury in every sense, from super-comfy bedding to dark chocolates at turndown.
traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens tucked into the nook of a private peninsula in san juan, the resort is the only one in the city with a private beach.
each and  every need and desire was handled immediately with a smile and attention to  detail.
the property is  expansive and lovely and rooms have nice patios.
affinia chicago city/region: chicago  accommodation  category: hotel location: city   standard:  upscale   style: boutique cb!
castle kiahuna plantation & the beach bungalows city/region:  kauai  accommodation category: resort location:  seaside   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
right on the ocean, beautiful  bathtub water surrounds the facility.
ranch location: mountains standard: luxurious style: boutique cb!
located in the heart of tuscany with easy access to everything from cities to  parks to castles.
there’s  also a small grocery store where you can buy snacks and supplies for nightly  "s’mores" that you roast over a poolside fire pit.
the lodge at steamboat stands out as  an excellent choice for those seeking upscale rooms paired value-oriented  pricing.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the hyatt regency is a wonderful hotel option for families visiting lake tahoe.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens stoweflake offers hotel rooms as well as townhouse units with full  kitchens, laundry, and plenty of space for families to spread out.
it is located in a  charming part of new york city where you feel like a local because it is set in  a neighborhood.
this hotel is a great  place for a family to relax for a few days.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action charming villa located in the hills outside of florence (10-minute cab ride  into the city) which was a respite from the crowds of the city and the pool a  great relief with kids after a day of sightseeing in the heat of the tuscan  summers.
our kids loved the trump kids program featuring a kids concierge, welcome gift, mini-robes, video games, and personalized kid business cards.
hawks cay resort city/region: florida  accommodation category:  resort location: seaside   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
vedema resort city/region: santorini accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: luxurious style:
there are some lovely towns to explore in this area and the beach is a  short drive away.
all units have full kitchens and private lanais and most have clothes washers.
it is hard to find a great family hotel in miami, but we found it at the raleigh.
age rating: baby ready, cool for teens
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens as you head through stowe, past town and up rte 108,  tucked away you will find topnotch — a preferred boutique, four diamond,  resort and spa.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for  teens loews offers a variety of unique programs and services for  children; including lending libraries of games, special children's menus which  include healthy options, tours, fisher-price welcome gifts, and supervised  recreational programs.
we have traveled to this hotel several times and the kids look forward to it just as much as us.
equinox resort city/region:  vermont  accommodation category:
the kids program is run during the holidays only and includes cooking classes and garden tours.
i immediately brought my family here for a long  weekend.
they are currently building two bedroom accommodations.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun i've never experienced a  hotel that is so beautiful and stylish, yet child-friendly.
la bandita is located on a verdant hillside where our twin toddlers ran around daily, completely delighted.
the hotel overlooks the ice skating rink in town and we can walk out our door to a million activities.
the property is expansive and lovely and rooms have nice patios.
not much to do on the immediate island  outside of kayaking, fishing, and snorkeling.
age rating: baby  ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens minutes from the  beach or just outside your porch door.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens chaa creek is located in a private nature reserve and offers cottages, suites and tents.
our villa had a kitchen however bosque del cabo has incredible food and the staff is very friendly and helpful.
it's also an easy walk to many of the highlights of palermo and the waterfront.
they take all-inclusive to an entirely new level as the private staff includes a personal chef, butler, driver, and housekeeping.
there is a well-stocked country  store, several restaurants, an on-site shuttle service, and everything is  self-contained at smuggs so you never have to go off property.
accommodations are comprised of rooms, suites and  villas all set on a working coffee planation.
the setting is dramatic and there are wonderful walks and views in the area - it's also fun to rent electric boats on the lake.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens every element of our experience at paws up was phenomenal.
there is an incredible array of things to do for families from  cross country skiing to a rustic cabin for lunch, to downhill skiing in stowe,  to swimming in their indoor pool, to participating in their kids’ club and  activities (not to mention a long list of wonderful summer activities too).
every child has a personal nanny that is available to care for them,  every night there is a kid's dinner, and there is an adult pool and kid's pool.
hotel location: seaside   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
this resort is a great option for a family reunion.
the contemporary suites and rooms are beautifully done with top-notch beds, linens, and bath amenities.
the villa is well-appointed and comfortable.
the restaurant is excellent and welcomes families.
maui accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: simple style: traditional cb!
half  moon, a rock resort city/region: jamaica  accommodation category:  resort location: seaside   standard:  luxurious   style: traditional cb!
villa le piazzole city/region: florence   accommodation category:
the staff is super-friendly and we found the onsite restaurant saddles to be very nice, yet low-key enough for kids.
horses and cows are nearby and will come by to say hello - a fun event for kids.
we appreciate the fact that the townhouse accommodations have daily maid service too - this helps take the work out of vacation.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens l'andana is fabulous - from the moment you walk through the doors you know it is something special.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens this 54-room property in the heart of the marais has a number of excellent room options for families.
overall, the atmosphere is quiet rather than busy and resorty, but it is kid-friendly and relaxing.
these new, spacious condos are wonderfully furnished with top-of-the-line kitchens, luxurious bathrooms, and comfortable beds.
there are many family activities nearby and the hotel offers a free shuttle into lahaina.
ballyvolane house city/region: cork accommodation category:
kid-friendly but not kid-centric, amenities for families include a holiday period kids club, floaties for the pool, and best of all, staff that goes out of their way to make every age feel pampered and comfortable.
the hotel is a small luxury hotel with just 29 rooms on a beautiful beach.
there is a lovely enclosed garden where families can sit outside and  relax.
this family-focused mega-resort has endless onsite activities for kids such as water park, water slides, and a dolphin experience.
age rating: toddler fun, school age action, baby ready,  cool for teens smuggs is a place for families who really enjoy doing  things together.
villa san michele city/region: florence accommodation category:
lamanai offers small cabanas with thatched roofs in a jungle setting.
the grounds are spread out which means that even when it's  fully booked there is a feeling of privacy.
we loved the warm welcome from the owner with fresh scones and tea.
the owners are very friendly.
sleepy little town with the hotel in a piazza.
the hotel offers incredible food, golf, tennis,  watersports, and a beautiful spa.
this picturesque alpine-style hotel feels like it is  straight out of austria.
family-oriented classes on hawaiian crafts taught by employees.
although each condo is individually owned, décor and amenity  quality is closely managed and consistent between units.
an old chateau, the hotel is wonderfully  restored, grand, and gorgeous.
hotel mas des  carassins city/region: provence  accommodation category:
hotel location: city standard: luxurious style: traditional cb!
pavillon de la reine is part of  the historic place des vosges and guests enjoy a unique parisian experience at  this gem.
the boulders resort city/region:  arizona  accommodation category: resort location:  countryside   standard: luxurious   style:
age rating: baby ready, cool for teens hotel santa caterina has a stunning location in amalfi with cliff top gardens, a pool at the seas edge and a beach.
les fermes des marie is a spectacular boutique hotel that manages to successfully merge adult-focused relaxation with a kid-friendly vibe in an intimate setting.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action the property offers apartment living  with hotel services.
trump international hotel & tower city/region: chicago accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: luxurious style:
tanque verde  guest ranch city/region: arizona  accommodation category: ranch location: countryside   standard:  simple   style: traditional cb!
the pool, while not large, is perfect for kids.
another big perk is that the cost of the hot springs is  included in the hotel rate—a big savings for families.
swim with green sea turtles which are native to the area.
washer/dryer in rooms.
this family-owned hotel makes you feel right at home.
chateau de saint paterne city/region:  normandy  accommodation category:
excursions to wineries are offered, as well as evening "tastings" in the bar.
regency is a wonderful hotel option for families visiting lake tahoe.
we love the luxury here - the property is very comfortable with gorgeous rooms.
the onsite restaurant is delicious.
rosewood mayakoba city/region: yucatan  peninsula  accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens 400 year old palazzo on a small canal within a 5-minute walk of san marco.
the surrounding area feels safe and the night security is very good.
ranch location: mountains   standard:  simple   style: traditional cb!
it is comprised of multiple condominium communities with many amenities.
there is a store for  supplies and great local restaurants nearby.
we were all enamored with  the onsite castle and nearby hiking trails through the forest.
the ponds on the property are fun for young kids.
hotel location: seaside   standard:  simple   style: traditional cb!
hotel rosa alpina city/region: dolomites accommodation category:
fabulous, upscale restaurant, made special dishes for the kids.
man-made sand beach and "protected" area for swimming with minimal waves.
the staff was great and very welcoming.
it's walkable to the lift, complete  with kitchenettes and outfitted with a spa and fitness facility.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens when we travel as a family it is most important to be in an intimate place that allows for stress free time for parents and a safe and secure environment for the kids.
the atmosphere is warm and friendly with multiple restaurants and a pool area that are kid-friendly.
if you're looking for the ultimate chalet-style luxury experience, this is it.
guest rooms are spacious with outdoor patiosvilla/hacienda units have kitchens as well.
as far as activities go, there was never a dull  moment from horseback riding, atv drives, fishing, and skeet shooting to name a  few.
there is a great  little kids pool for babies and toddlers.
hawks cay resort city/region: florida accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
esencia city/region: yucatan peninsula  accommodation category: hotel location: seaside   standard: luxurious    style: boutique cb!
the location is convenient with access to a village for supplies within a 5-minute drive.
the park hyatt beaver creek is in an incredible location with ideal access to the chair lifts, ski school, restaurants, and shopping.
age rating: toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens mystic river resort is located 7 miles from san ignacio and santa  elena and is one of the best places to do absolutely everything or absolutely  nothing.
winvian city/region: connecticut  accommodation category:
there are hotel  rooms and villa units available.
the affinia chicago is  a stylish, boutique hotel that is very kid-friendly too.
waldhaus sils city/region: st. moritz accommodation category:
this property offers extensive baby equipment including strollers,  high chairs, cribs and baby baths.
its just a 5-minute drive from the huntington beach pier, but you can make it even easier by taking the resort shuttle.
the property is close to nice parks for  toddler play.
the location is great  across the street from the santa monica promenade (wonderful for taking a walk  or run) and walking distance to santa monica shopping and restaurants.
we took the onsite family cooking class with the executive chef and the pastry chef - my family learned how to make homemade pasta as well as cupcakes.
villa location: countryside   standard:  luxurious   style: old world cb!
traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens perfect ground floor rooms for families with a patio that spills out onto grassy areas for kids to play.
this made quebec a perfect destination for my family in february.
the resort has many onsite activities including horseback riding (even in the water), water sports, tennis, exercise room, golf and a fabulous new spa.
common areas and especially  the dining room are beautiful and scenic and the food is superb although  pricey.
maui accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: luxurious style: contemporary cb!
hotel location: mountains   standard:  luxurious   style: traditional cb!
weve vacationed here a few years in a row and end up never leaving the resort.
the kids program is wonderful with friendly and caring staff; you feel like your kids are safe there and the communication with parents is excellent.
rooms are bright, cheerful, and are decorated in a fun and funky style that our baby loved - even the cot is bright colored and gorgeous.
the rooms, which are  mostly suites, have upscale white linen decor, but also happen to be  comfortable.
there are  many beach and pool areas to enjoy.
kitchens are well-equipped and if there is anything you need the owners will get it for you.
resort location: seaside standard: upscale style:
the single  only drawback was that we were all in one large single room, but honestly, we  were so exhausted most nights, going to bed with the kids was easy.
the beach itself is in a calm lagoon, perfect for kids of all  ages.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the fairmont miramar is  one of the landmark hotels in santa monica.
our family of 5 was extremely comfortable in the 2-bedroom flat we rented in this building.
stay connected get our cb!
rooms are themed with many  creative options including a treehouse perched 30 feet off the ground.
in other words, it’s the best of hotel services paired with condo  amenities.
mirror lake inn city/region: adirondack mountains  accommodation category:
packages  available for purchase for use of water equipment for use during entire stay.
trapp family lodge city/region:  vermont  accommodation category:
recently renovated, well-furnished apartments and a villa are  spread across a sprawling olive oil estate.
the location of the white elephant is unbeatable for nantucket if you want to have easy access to town activities with kids.
the hotel is extremely convenient as it is walking distance to shops, restaurants, and the ferry.
very family-friendly.
there is also a teens' club and babysitting for infants and toddlers.
vero beach hotel and spa city/region: florida accommodation category:
the food is outstanding, especially  the fresh, homemade bread.
the food is excellent, although we loved going to playa del carmen with our kids and frequently went into town for meals.
food's terrific as is the service.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens this classic hotel on  oahu's north shore has something for everyone in the family (especially for  those who golf or surf).
hotel location: city   standard: luxurious    style: old world cb!
accommodations are ranch-style and exceeded expectations.
the service is fabulous.
our family apartment (no kitchen) was simple but spacious and comfortable.
we opted for the casita room with plenty of space and comfortable beds.
grand hotel tremezzo palace city/region: lake como  accommodation  category:
in the winter, there are shuttles to local snow ski resorts which ski school starting at age 4.
hotel location: countryside   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
the setting and views are spectacular.
ranch location: countryside standard: simple style: traditional cb!
we were all enamored with the onsite castle and nearby hiking trails through the forest.
megève is filled with appealing restaurants and shops; it's a  5-minute walk from the hotel or you can opt for the hotel's free shuttle.
our kids loved the trump kids program featuring  a kid’s concierge, welcome gift, mini-robes, video games, and personalized  kid ‘business cards’.
we choose activities that suited our interests,  ages, skill level ...
pricing is value-oriented for the space, room amenities,  and location.
guest room options  for families are extensive.
best of all, tourist  highlights such as kilkenny castle and dunmore cave are an easy drive from here.
kids under 5 ski free at on the magic carpet at the resort and the ski school is terrific.
as you plan your stay, with a quick call, a smuggs vacation  specialist will guide you through the myriad of activities so you don’t  miss anything during your stay.
this family-owned hotel  makes you feel right at home.
the expansive grounds provide plenty of space for kids to run around and there are swimming pools, tennis courts, and countryside walks to keep all ages happy.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens convenient location in palm desert.
activities include indoor and outdoor pools, squash, tennis and  a putting green.
ammos hotel city/region:  crete  accommodation category:
apartment location: countryside   standard:  simple   style: traditional cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens just steps from the beach, the catamaran resort is in an excellent location for all ages.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens a week at red horse ranch was one of the best family vacations we've ever taken.
children's high  tea is served every day and is quite popular.
our favorite feature is the kid-friendly  lobby—there is an enormous fireplace where people of all ages hang out and  relax.
it is comprised of a variety of apartments and villas, each  with its own design.
guest rooms  have all the conveniences of home.
the landscape is gorgeous.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun
premier suites city/region:  dublin  accommodation category: apartment location:  city   standard: upscale   style: boutique cb!
in the winter, there is a toboggan ride next to the hotel which the older kids loved.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens amazing mountain views and starry nights.
there is a water park  that they turn into a sledding park all winter which was incredible.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens colle san paolo is a fantastic option for families visiting umbria.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens colle san paolo is a fantastic option for families  visiting umbria.
the basic  decor and worn-in feel can be overlooked for it's price and convenience.
el capitan has something for everyone -- easy or  challenging hikes into the foothills, a walk to one of the most striking  beaches in california, a pool and playground, llamas, horses, bike riding -- it  really can't be beat.
a  small facility, it feels crisp and lodge-esq while being kid-friendly.
the raleigh hotel city/region: florida  accommodation  category:
there is a water park that they turn into a sledding park all winter which was incredible.
if this resort wasn't so close to downtown san antonio, you wouldn't even think of leaving the grounds of this incredible property.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens poggio al casone is comprised of 10 thoughtfully  restored self-catering apartments.
the owners are so kind and they are always ready to help you.
villa le piazzole city/region:
age rating: baby  ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens fun, very  family-oriented property.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens over 400 animals roam free at safari west and visitors can observe them up close in open-air jeeps or stay the night in stylish tent-cabins.
the owner was very knowledgeable about historic sites and made this vacation the best we've ever had.
les fermes des  marie city/region: megève  accommodation category:
sandy lane city/region: barbados  accommodation category: hotel location: seaside   standard: luxurious   style:
traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, toddler fun marco beach ocean resort is located on wonderful beach.
hotel al piave city/region: venice/veneto accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: simple style: traditional cb!
huge open kitchen/dining and family  area with a large fireplace.
la sovana city/region: tuscany  accommodation category:
my 3 month old loved her own spa treatment: an infant massage and bath in milk and honey.
hotel is in the town of camogli - a picturesque fishing village.
all villas include a private beach and floating sun  dock.
he booked our gondola ride.
a large balcony provides views of the lagoon and/or resort.
the hotel is within walking distance to the center of amalfi where you can catch busses to other areas of the amalfi coast.
the rooftop restaurant and bar has views that are captivating for all ages.
reasonable priced resort dining, complete with kids’ menus.
furnishings are comfortable and casual which makes it relaxing for stays with kids.
maui accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style: contemporary cb!
fess parker's doubletree resort city/region: santa barbara accommodation category:
rooms have traditional décor and the sea view rooms with balconies are outstanding.
and it was  extreme camping at best with -10 temperatures at night.
age rating: school age action ceiba del mar is a very quaint  boutique hotel with upscale atmosphere - not a mega-hotel feeling.
another big perk is that the cost of the hot springs is included in the hotel ratea big savings for families.
apartment location: mountains standard: simple style: traditional cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens an all studio, one, and two-bedroom condo hotel, guest rooms are ideally suited for families with kitchens, comfortable beds, sofa beds, washer/dryers, dishwashers, dvd players, and stainless steel gas grills scattered throughout the resort.
stowe is a great year-round destination.
homewood suites san diego-del mar city/region: san diego accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: simple style:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the somerset is a special place.
the hotel is  pristine and inviting as soon as you enter the lobby.
the famous black rock snorkeling spot is  a few minutes walk along the paved ocean front path as are various restaurants.
hyatt regency huntington beach resort & spa city/region: los angeles area accommodation category:
the grounds are  beautiful and fun for toddlers to run around.
given the choice, i would choose the cottages over the villas they are closer to the main hotel, pool, and tennis and have a nicer view.
affinia chicago city/region: chicago accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: upscale style: boutique cb!
yucatan peninsula accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style:
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens this upscale hotel  makes everyone feel welcome.
2 lower floors have the rooms with bedrooms most having an en-suite or bathroom directly across from the bedroom.
while there are no views or interests within walking distance, the property is clean, quiet and peaceful, and is a great value for families visiting san diego.
families have a wide range of rooms to choose from including options  with multiple bedrooms, kitchenette facilities, and private living space.
you are also allowed to climb some of the ruins which was great for all.
it is hard to find a  great family hotel in miami, but we found it at the raleigh.
they have rooms that connect for families - this was important to us.
chamonix accommodation category: hotel location: mountains standard: simple style: boutique cb!
there is a wide array of pools for all ages.
orquideas inn city/region: central  valley  accommodation category:
moreover, the general manager, marco, is very  well-connected in the area and specializes in creating exclusive itineraries  and activities for his guests.
the staff is accommodating and focused on making sure kids feel welcome and have fun at the property.
age rating: toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens convenient location.
there are endless recreational opportunities for all  ages.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens hotel londra palace is right on the main canal in venice with unbelievable views of the water.
fighine city/region:
the poolside bungalows are beautiful  and great to use.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens seven stars has a great set up for families with spacious condo units  overlooking one of the prettiest beaches i've ever seen.
the hotel de la minerve is located in a tiny piazza just around the corner from the pantheon in an area of rome that is perfect for families.
tennis available with lessons as well as a sand volleyball court.
guests have the freedom to do as they please.
the rooms are well designed, charming and spacious.
despite all the upscale features appreciated by the adults (spa, driving school, golf), there are many families that stay here for the easy access to year-round outdoors activities including falconry school, swimming, hiking, fly fishing, and skiing at nearby stratton and bromley.
it features a big  kitchen, fantastic terrace, and overall is very functional and comfortable.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens what makes the evergreen lodge special is the summer camp-style  activities.
the surrounding area feels safe and the night security is  very good.
if this resort wasn't so close to downtown san antonio,  you wouldn't even think of leaving the grounds of this incredible property.
rancho las palmas resort and spa city/region: palm springs accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: upscale style:
bosque del cabo city/region: osa peninsula  accommodation  category:
the food is excellent with a fresh breakfast buffet we all loved.
kid-friendly amenities include a private beach with equipment rentals for water activities, a kids club, a heated pool and hot tubs, and an arcade in the hotel.
there’s a private garden with a pool, exclusive for the  villa.
the property is fun with toddlers as there are many areas to  walk around and explore.
many things nearby - incredible  swimming quarries, fishing, canoeing.
aurora, the owner, is great and she really took care of us.
great location and a warm  feeling.
the fully equipped kitchens are  some of the best i’ve seen in this accommodation category.
hotel location:  lake   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
the famous black rock snorkeling spot is a few minutes walk along the paved ocean front path as are various restaurants.
brightly colored guest accommodations featuring oaxacan fabrics and furniture crafted by mexican artisans include 1-2 bedroom casitas and fully staffed (cook and butler) 3-11 bedroom villas.
local activities and excursions  include poas volcano, la paz waterfall, an animal estuary and the butterfly  zoo.
rooms are spacious and decorated very well.
l'andana city/region: tuscany accommodation category:
rooms open up to a grassy garden; families can sleep in one room or opt for connecting rooms.
the inviting lobby lounge is an ideal venue for family games and apres ski fun.
the primary onsite restaurant is delicious,  resort casual, and has an amazing glass wall wine cellar with an extensive  selection.
rooms are clean and spacious  for the city.
kid-friendly amenities include a private beach with equipment rentals for water  activities, a kids club, a heated pool and hot tubs, and an arcade in the  hotel.
the restaurant features gourmet food from the region and in warmer months, it's possible to dine outside on the terrace.
the range of activities, including horse back riding, mountain biking, kayaking, challenge courses, camp fires, archery ... kept us busy.
the hotel has beautiful sea views and amazing sunsets.
byrnesgrove city/region:  kilkenny  accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action renvyle is in a truly stunning location  on a peninsula on the west coast of ireland.
we stayed in the penthouse suite and loved our private rooftop terrace.
the staff is phenomenal
the property is walking distance to many of seattle's tourist attractions.
it's a secure building, located less than one block from kensington street and 1 1/2 blocks from the kensington high street tube station and the super easy double decker bus system.
it’s just a 5-minute drive from the huntington  beach pier, but you can make it even easier by taking the resort shuttle.
the excellent service at this hotel extends to the restaurant with stunning lake, river, and downtown views from the floor-to-ceiling windows.
hear the calming surf all the time.
the resort at paws up city/region: montana accommodation category:
if you ask us which hotel we would go to whenever we  had the chance, it would be the breakers.
guest rooms are spacious with fun kimptonkids  treats and amenities.
the expansive grounds provide  plenty of space for kids to run around and there are swimming pools, tennis  courts, and countryside walks to keep all ages happy.
the idea behind bluefields bay is that once you arrive you don't have to lift a finger.
there's a park outside your door, shopping, and fine dining just a short walk away.
winnetu oceanside resort city/region: martha's vineyard accommodation category:
this means independence for them and a break for us.
the bathrooms are  large enough to put the crib inside affording grown-ups privacy.
although it is very close to st. mark's  square, the hotel is very quiet.
service is topnotch and the staff will cater to any of your needs.
la bandita is  located on a verdant hillside where our twin toddlers ran around daily,  completely delighted.
there are nice beaches and restaurants in the area.
there are also many fabulous restaurants nearby.
there is a saltwater protected lagoon with over 4,000 tropical fish which was great for snorkeling without surf.
shoreham city/region: new york city   accommodation category: hotel location: city    standard: upscale   style: contemporary cb!
winnetu oceanside resort city/region: martha's vineyard   accommodation category:
the ratio of staff to guest was  excellent and the ranch host was eager accommodate us and to customize our  vacation to meet our needs!
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for  teens
the beach is shallow with small waves and beach toys.
extensive supervised children's programs are  available from 6 weeks and up.
our kids loved the huge lawn (perfect for running around and chasing bugs), swimming pool, and the farm animals.
sports rentalsthe club is only available to hotel guests.
hotel location:  city   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
rooms are well-appointed, comfortable, and ideally configured with connecting options for families.
winvian city/region: connecticut accommodation category: hotel location: countryside standard: luxurious style: boutique cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun beautiful condo-hotel away from frenzy of the strip.
hotel  del sol city/region: san francisco bay area  accommodation  category:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the clay brook is brand new, so everything is very clean and well  done.
there are many family-oriented activities offered here including horseback riding, swimming, spa, and tennis.
tabacon grand spa thermal  resort city/region: arenal volcano  accommodation category: resort location: mountains   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
age rating: toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens this upscale "camping" resort is great for families who want  to experience the natural beauty of the california coast without the effort of  really roughing it.
the mini club is for children 4+ - kids can  play all day and the parents get to explore.
if you are  looking for a true irish country house experience that embraces your children  too, this is it.
hotel continental city/region: italian riviera   accommodation category: hotel location: seaside    standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
friendly, helpful proprietor and  staff.
the front desk staff is friendly and helpful.
fabulous! club med cancun yucatan city/region: yucatan  peninsula  accommodation category:
riding in the jeep is a huge thrill for kids.
the  owners, collette and patrick, are fantastic hosts and when you leave chateau
the location of the hotel is very central with access to idyllic villages as well as the beach.
marriott timber lodge city/region: lake tahoe   accommodation category: resort location:  mountains   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
although the location is somewhat remote, we loved castello di vicarello and found that it provided the exact authentic italian experience we wanted for our trip after a very hectic work schedule.
we love that the village is always lively with jazz and music festivals in the summer and smores by the fire in winter.
ranch location:  mountains   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens
guest room options for families are extensive.
liassidi palace hotel city/region: venice/veneto accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: upscale style: old world cb!
the hosts are very accommodating to families and go out of their way to make stays enjoyable.
bavarian forest holidays city/region: bayerisch eisenstein accommodation category: apartment location: mountains standard: simple style:
we had a corner suite.
highlights include lincoln road mall (three blocks away) - an open-air pedestrian promenade filled with restaurants, outdoor cafes, stores, art galleries, and (at night) street performers.
guest accommodations are rustic but comfortable with kitchens and all you need.
glendine country house city/region:
stowe mountain lodge city/region:
le fleuray hotel city/region: loire valley accommodation category: hotel location: countryside standard: upscale style: old world cb!
they also offer valet ski service which makes  all-family skiing easy and efficient.
the  horses are fabulous and well-trained.
we like the 2-bedroom units with kitchens and hammocks for families; located close to the beach, they have roof-top hot tubs and wonderful views.
we  appreciate the fact that the townhouse accommodations have daily maid service  too - this helps take the work out of vacation.
kids can swim in the shallow water or fish!
the parents' bedroom not only felt like a spa with its warm tones and plush linens, but it was set up in just the right way with the sleeping area for the kids on a pull-out sofa in the living room.
there are 2 gourmet grocery stores within walking distance and nice neighborhood restaurants.
the hotel is luxurious but not pretentious, key for a family-friendly atmosphere.
baby monitors are provided to parents who want them; we were able to put our kids to bed and then sit in the lounge downstairs with other guests.
we easily got an early check in (to make naptime),  carried nothing but our son to the room and found a nice crib with brand new  linens, baby toiletries and a stuffed animal in our room.
the food is outstanding, especially the fresh, homemade bread.
trump international hotel & tower city/region: chicago   accommodation category: hotel location: city    standard: luxurious   style:
age rating: baby  ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the hyatt
the overall service here is highly personalized.
there's a park outside your door, shopping, and fine dining just  a short walk away.
les fermes des marie  is a spectacular boutique hotel that manages to successfully merge  adult-focused relaxation with a kid-friendly vibe in an intimate setting.
lamanai is rustic but upscale for anyone who wants a "jungle experience".
individual apartments have their  own patio with an adjacent grassy area and rooms feature a mix of antiques and  practical furnishings.
even the guest room experience is like staying in the alps –  what a treat!
villa location: countryside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
small rooms and very small shower, but the  staff couldn't have been nicer and the outside garden for breakfast was a  wonderful way to start the day!
this hotel is a great place for a family to relax for a few days.
tuscany   accommodation category: hotel location:  countryside   standard: upscale   style:  contemporary cb!
handcrafted décor, toasty fires, and  exceptional service create a warm and cozy atmosphere for all ages at the trapp  family lodge.
the stark scenery is  breathtaking and the destination truly worth the effort.
marignolle relais & charm city/region: florence accommodation category: hotel location: countryside standard: upscale style: boutique cb!
directly across from the expansive, beautiful beach - you simply walk across the hotel's pedestrian bridge to cross the pacific coast highway.
part of kimpton hotels, it's boutique feel and kids welcomeincluding pint sized robes upon requestcan tempt you away from the mountain for some downtime.
this is  a beautiful house, well designed, open, airy and light.
onsite  dining is fresh with plenty of food choices for everyone.
borgo finocchieto city/region: tuscany accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: luxurious style:
vedema resort city/region: santorini  accommodation  category:
my kids thought that the plunge pool was the highlight of the entire trip!
the 2 and 3 bedroom suites are magnificent.
we stayed in one  of the condo units which comfortably fit our extended family of nine.
connemara accommodation category: hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style: old world cb!
we love the mountain set-up here for families with  an extensive amount of intermediate terrain.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun borgo  scopeto represents a unique opportunity to live in the tuscan countryside and  enjoy spectacular food and wine in a casual, yet refined environment.
the  hotel is within walking distance to the center of amalfi where you can catch  busses to other areas of the amalfi coast.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action this seaside resort overlooks one of  the best beaches in the uk.
hotel monaco seattle city/region: seattle accommodation category:
rosewood mayakoba city/region:
we still talk about  our adventure riding a mustang in a lake - bareback!
they are interesting, knowledgeable, warm, and generous hosts.
sky hotel city/region: rocky mountains accommodation category: hotel location: mountains standard: upscale style:
the gardens are spectacular and we love the dining area - it feels very private.
the calm, swimmable cove is a magical place to relax, plus  there are plenty of activity options for those that want to explore the  estate’s natural wonders on land (hiking, biking, horseback riding) or sea  (sailing, kayaking, snorkeling).
recently renovated, rooms and dining areas are updated.
the therapeutic thermal spa amenities added a whole new level of relaxation to our family vacation.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the setting of the  hotel is beautiful with expansive, well-landscaped grounds and fountains  throughout.
there is shopping and tourist attractions all around.
the oceana has large suites with plenty of room for multiple children.
the property is quiet on a small side street - a bit hard to find the  first time you look for it, but otherwise this hotel is a great value for  venice.
having an onsite babysitter was just  amazing, this enabled my husband and i to go to the spa and have a couples  massage and then enjoy an evening with other adults.
we were actually able to relax on the beach while our son played in the sand - much easier at an intimate resort like this!
it's walkable to the lift, complete with kitchenettes and outfitted with a spa and fitness facility.
tuscany accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: luxurious style:
rooms  vary in size and have modern decor and amenities.
great childcare options are offered with special programs planned around  holiday times.
the service is excellent.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens amazing mountain views and starry nights.
the hotel is very kid-friendly - the treehouse club is a full service kids club  on property featuring weekly island excursions, beach/pool activities, indoor  games, arts/crafts, and mid-day movies to escape the sun.
villas and grounds are very family-oriented with full kitchen and  laundry facilities in each unit, central playground, kid's activity center and  individual pool for each group of villas if you want a quieter day.
the location of montestigliano, away from  major roads and close to a small village, means that older kids can open the  apartment door and go - there is plenty of walking, hiking and biking in the  surrounding area.
westin mission hills resort & spa city/region: palm springs  accommodation category: resort location: city   standard: upscale   style:
young kids will appreciate the small beach and playground nearby, and since the hotel is just steps from town, teens can enjoy a bit of independence.
the beach is rocky  but fun to explore.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens memorable manicured lawn in front of sandy beach welcomes romping  children of all ages.
it's like being in a private home where guests of all ages feel comfortable and relaxed.
the food quality is fresh and good with a nice  selection of kid-friendly foods.
rooms  are spacious and decorated very well.
the villa is well-appointed and  comfortable.
hosts jim and laura kenny go to great lengths to ensure  that each guest enjoys an authentic farm experience, complete with hearty  breakfasts and fresh baked treats, as well as interaction with their managerie  of animals and livestock.
lamanai outpost lodge city/region:
turtle bay resort city/region: oahu  accommodation category:  hotel location: seaside   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
sky hotel city/region: rocky mountains  accommodation category: hotel location: mountains   standard: upscale    style:
it is in the center of town so everything is close, including the glass  funicular which the kids love to ride.
the owner provides toys, games, dvds, and a  fabulous activity folder for kids.
herethe property is well-appointed with the ideal combination of condo amenities and hotel services like daily maid service.
age rating: baby ready, school age action an old stone house made into four apartments in a charming medieval village just outside of venice.
we love the mountain set-up here for families with an extensive amount of intermediate terrain.
the indoor hotel pool is sun-filled and perfect for adults and kids alike.
these serviced apartments include a fully equipped kitchen and washer/dryer.
the property has lush vegetation, and paths  that lead into the jungle where you can see and hear howler monkeys, beautiful  birds and wonderful mayan ruins.
the  village lodge city/region: mammoth lakes  accommodation category:  resort location: mountains   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
we had a wonderful  private dinner on our rooftop terrace one night.
johnny and pamela our hosts clearly love children.
the lagoon is great for families given that  the beach is on open ocean with wild surf.
germany- greece- hawaii- ireland- italy-
a well-appointed kids' activities room has  something for all ages to play with and is paired with a seasonal activity  program.
the property is family-oriented with a range of activities including onsite fishing ponds.
lighthouse inn city/region: cape cod  accommodation category:
gondola can  pick up right in front.
the owners  are very friendly.
it is a  ferry ride from waterford with easy access to area sights.
the hotel has a spa, 2-star michelin restaurant, plus a casual restaurant.
there are a few onsite restaurants to choose from  including formal and casual options; the meals are outstanding.
age rating: baby ready, school age action fighine is a restored hamlet comprised of five rental villas and an 11th century castle (the owners residence) reached at the end of a long gravel road outside of san casciano dei bagni.
to top it off, the setting is wonderful with fantastic ocean views.
the property feels  completely safe as it is gated and access is only given to guests and staff.
the therapeutic  thermal spa amenities added a whole new level of relaxation to our family  vacation.
the views were beautiful.
the pool area is spectacular highlighted by a water slide that is extremely popular with the kids.
chateau de saint paterne city/region: normandy accommodation category:
my kids thought that the plunge pool was the  highlight of the entire trip!
the pool was fenced and also heated, so our little one felt warm inside it.
the two-bedroom apartments in this building have plenty of room for a family with 2-3 kids to spread out and relax.
squaw valley lodge city/region: lake tahoe  accommodation category: apartment location: mountains   standard:  simple   style: traditional cb!
mountains   standard: luxurious   style:  contemporary cb!
complete with three slides, a kids pool, wading pool and oversized hot tub, theyll never want to leave.
the basic decor and worn-in feel can be overlooked for it's price and convenience.
the pod hotel city/region: new york city accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: simple style:
age rating: baby  ready, school age action, cool for teens the allen house has excellent  serviced apartments for families in a super neighborhood.
they call it  “glamping”—the best of camping and a luxury hotel.
the  history tour of the von trapp family is a highlight – it’s  fascinating to learn first-hand details about this iconic family portrayed in  the the sound of music.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens honua kai resort is an affordable luxury option for families who want top-notch condo amenities paired with the services of an upscale hotel.
the location is excellent near other resorts and local  shopping.
heated pool and sidewalks.
the westin ka'anapali ocean resort  villas city/region: maui  accommodation category:
the location is fantastic with easy access to area activities.
the recently renovated rooms are roomy and clean and the staff is warm and helpful.
service is top notch and for  parents that want pampering, the spa is great too.
there are stunning views of the amalfi coast from all areas of the hotel.
hotel location: city    standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
the allen house has excellent serviced apartments for families in a super neighborhood.
there was also a nearby golf course that we managed to play on and  there is lots to do for young children with nearby beaches and horse riding.
evergreen lodge city/region: yosemite accommodation category:
good onsite restaurant, but have to go early (like 4:45) to avoid a long wait, which is not fun with kids--at least not ours!
hotel location:  countryside   standard: upscale   style:
in an unbeatable location right at the mountain's base, the sky hotel makes you feel ongoing après ski even with kids in tow.
the hot springs, pool and waterslide, and kid-friendly swim-up bar are the highlights at tabaconthis is a great place for school age kids and teens to spend the day in the water.
hotel location: city   standard:  luxurious   style: traditional cb!
the location is convenient with access to a village  for supplies within a 5-minute drive.
but they included lovely table decorations to make our  thanksgiving very elegant in an outdoor setting.
the property also  features multiple swimming pools, bbqs for guest use, daily housekeeping, a  gym, spa treatments, and gourmet marketplace for groceries and prepared foods.
safari west city/region: napa valley accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
surf lessons in front of beach, pool with water slide (and shallow area with sand for babies) across the street; gather plumeria flowers and string a lei!
the best part for the kids was that their daughter, alaia, who  welcomed them into her play, and shared great italian snacks with them.
kiawah island accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
our apartment, la torre, has a private terrace on the roof and we looked at the stars every night wonderful!
if you want a special family  getaway bluefields bay is it — you really can't put a price on this kind  of relaxation.
much of the food served at the restaurant is from the hotel's own hydroponic farm and it is amazing and kid-friendly.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun borgo scopeto represents a unique opportunity to live in the tuscan countryside and enjoy spectacular food and wine in a casual, yet refined environment.
stay connected    get our cb!
la costa  resort and spa city/region: san diego  accommodation category:  resort location: seaside   standard:  upscale   style: old world cb!
the oceana has  large suites with plenty of room for multiple children.
kitchen is great for conversation and relaxing.
chez o'neal city/region: lake tahoe  accommodation category: villa location: mountains   standard: luxurious   style:
age rating: baby ready,  school age action an old stone house made into four apartments in a  charming medieval village just outside of venice.
hotel location: seaside   standard:  upscale   style: contemporary cb!
the views here are breathtaking.
coltorto city/region:
the hotel has a spa, 2-star michelin  restaurant, plus a casual restaurant.
families have lots of  accommodation choices at topnotch, from deluxe double bedded rooms all the way  up to overlook resort homes.
the staff is  extremely attentive and willing to assist with every need!
le fleuray hotel city/region: loire valley  accommodation  category: hotel location: countryside   standard:  upscale   style: old world cb!
the  kids' program and amenities are outstanding and include an arcade, movie  theater, and playground.
everything is organized around a central plaza with many  entertainment options for all ages including horseshoes, ping pong, and an  outdoor fire pit.
our favorite feature is the kid-friendly lobbythere is an enormous fireplace where people of all ages hang out and relax.
we’ve vacationed here a few  years in a row and end up never leaving the resort.
the poolside bungalows are beautiful and great to use.
a brilliant  concept of this property is the inclusion of a phenomenal kids program which  provides children their own spa experience as well as swimming, sports.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we love the extensive  activities offered at the fairmont scottsdale including a children’s  program, multiple swimming pools (one with 2 long, curvy slides), a lake where  you can fish, golf, and a full spa.
the hotel is very hip and our kids love the amenities including free hot chocolate throughout the day.
this property offers extensive baby equipment including strollers, high chairs, cribs and baby baths.
resort location: seaside   standard:  upscale   style:
the property also has two nice boutiques.
lanais are  perfectly set up for outdoor living with full dining areas.
hotel location: seaside   standard:  upscale   style: old world cb!
i immediately brought my family here for a long weekend.
la bandita city/region:  tuscany  accommodation category:
the location is fabulous behind the pantheon and you can walk everywhere from here.
we choose activities that suited our interests, ages, skill level ...
mystic river resort city/region: san ignacio accommodation category:
bauer casa nova city/region:  venice/veneto  accommodation category: hotel location:  city   standard: luxurious   style:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens stoweflake offers hotel rooms as well as townhouse units with full kitchens, laundry, and plenty of space for families to spread out.
there is a laid-back and friendly vibe between the owners and their guests and the owner is happy to arrange activities or special meals.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens a relais & chateaux property set in the dolomite  mountains in the village of san cassiano.
the area has both wonderful, easy hiking appropriate for preschool age children and above as well as excellent day hikes available for adults.
the restaurant features gourmet food from the  region and in warmer months, it's possible to dine outside on the terrace.
montestigliano city/region:
chaa creek city/region: san  ignacio  accommodation category: resort location:  mountains   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
the position of this  hotel in a forest above a village is magical.
hotel del sol city/region: san francisco bay area accommodation category:
pamela and our son had fun exploring bugs together while my husband and i got some time on our own, a welcome rarity on a family vacation.
there are daily  onsite children's activities; some are complimentary and some have a small fee.
there is a beachfront area with new pools for families, as well as adult-only options.
borgo scopeto city/region:
hotel rufolo has a fantastic location in the center of the  town yet still feels secluded.
age rating: baby  ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we love that the  family-oriented winnetu hotel is located literally across the street from the  beach.
rooms are spacious and there is an indoor pool that the boys loved to use  after skiing.
the caretaker has two  daughters that live on the property – this contributes to the kid-friendly  atmosphere.
mystic river resort city/region:  san ignacio  accommodation category:
plus, there are many grassy areas for young kids to roam and  play.
casali dei ciompi city/region:
kaanapali alii city/region:
man-made sand  beach and "protected" area for swimming with minimal waves.
our apartment was well-appointed and we loved the rustic-yet-luxurious character and charm of the decor.
alsagra city/region:  umbria  accommodation category: apartment location:  countryside   standard: simple   style:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens run by a young family in southern ireland, the 6-room ballyvolane house offers the comforts of home (plus a good bit of grandeur), live-in playmates, and a chance to experience a culture from the inside out.
in addition to top notch skiing, smuggs offers a huge list of activities including a waterpark, zip line canopy tour, mini golf, fishing, biking ... the list goes on and on.
the suite-style rooms are gorgeous  and very private—ours had a roof deck and plunge pool with a view of the  beautiful lagoon.
lanais are glass-lined and feature all you need to dine al fresco every night.
directly across the  road to the beautiful beach.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action hotel  monaco's location is fabulous near the library with a 15,000 square foot  children's section.
overall the property is extremely kid-friendly  with a fee-based kids club offering continuous activities from lei making hula  lessons, outdoor movies, and a fun kids pool complete with a pirate ship.
ceiba del mar city/region:
in addition to the phenomenal skiing in this area, there is a zip-line, mountain adventure center, and mountain bike riding over summer months.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens after driving up a long and winding dirt road, just as you and your family starts to get a bit cranky
palazzo schiavoni city/region: venice/veneto accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: upscale style: old world cb!
located just 20 or so minutes from many of the monterey  peninsula's main attractions, carmel valley ranch is resort that is relaxing  for all ages and interests — we'll be back with our kids!
there is also the possibility of  fantastic home cooking with fresh ingredients grown on the property.
tuscany accommodation category: villa location: countryside standard: upscale style:
views are fabulous, service is warm and friendly, the atmosphere is authentically tropical and rooms are modern and chic.
small things like video rentals, the weekend bbqs and daily pool breakfast/afternoon cookies make the place seem fun - for all kinds of kids.
meanwhile, parents can enjoy the restaurant and bar that overlook the pool area.
evergreen lodge city/region:  yosemite  accommodation category: hotel location:  mountains   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
the one-bedroom suite accommodations are perfect for families as there is a back bedroom plus a sofa bed in the living room so parents get a bit of privacy.
our kids loved the outdoor heated pool and got a kick out of swimming and jumping in snow at the same time.
they are helpful, friendly, attentive and genuinely interested in making  your stay a memorable one.
our extended family took over tent city.
full  kitchen in the villa rooms.
hotel rosa alpina city/region:  dolomites  accommodation category:
the meals are varied and elegant and unforgettable.
west of galway city, just outside clifden in connemara.
the staff made our trip great and relaxing - they knew our names and always greeted our son.
kids are everywhere and there is always activity and action in and around the public areas.
traditional cb! age rating: school age action, cool for teens
the owners are enthusiastic about hosting families and have put together local itineraries just for kids (from chocolate factory visits to guided hiking).
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens run by a young family in southern ireland, the 6-room  ballyvolane house offers the comforts of home (plus a good bit of grandeur),  live-in playmates, and a chance to experience a culture from the inside out.
the gardens are  spectacular and we love the dining area - it feels very private.
there is a world-class spa, indoor and outdoor swimming pools, as well as welcoming family-oriented amenities including tea, cookies, arts & crafts, and board games for kids.
ive traveled all around the world and our week at paws up will remain one of my most treasured memories!
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens l'andana is fabulous - from the moment you walk through the doors you  know it is something special.
the almyra is a fantastic place to truly relax and enjoy a  beautiful setting.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens
we loved the fact that resort staff will drop off firewood and fire starters to make it easy to build a campfire for s'mores.
we love it, and continue to come as often as possible.
les limornieres city/region: loire valley  accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens club med ixtapa is a  self-contained resort in a beautiful setting.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens situated in a beautiful  traditional greek village away from the hustle and bustle of the touristy areas  of santorini, vadema resort is peaceful and luxurious getaway overlooking the  sea.
age rating: baby  ready, toddler fun, school age action i discovered this boutique hotel  while traveling on business.
game room for the kids.
there are an  incredible number of things to do on and off property including fishing,  tennis, golf, a playground, and kids club for ages 4-14 that runs during  holiday periods.
pitcher inn city/region: vermont accommodation category:
over the years, weve grown to love the family that runs waldhaus sils, the staff, and the people that go there.
our room was huge and beautiful.
the setting around chateau ribagnac is stunning.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens fun, very family-oriented property.
the staff is warm and helpful.
hotel santa caterina city/region: amalfi coast accommodation category:
the pool and beach are well groomed and  not very crowded.
vista verde guest ranch city/region: rocky mountains   accommodation category:
traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the setting of the hotel is beautiful with expansive, well-landscaped grounds and fountains throughout.
the cook is excellent and made special meals for our kids.
the spot  is beautiful, and the cottage is comfortable with great views.
our condo had direct access to the big lagoon pool, was a short walk to beach and had a plunge pool on the patio.
from the relaxing lounge areas, a cozy library, a pampering spa, to the pga golf courses, and an amazing pool area for children of all ages the jw marriott san antonio hill country resort & spa seems to have everything right.
brightly colored guest accommodations featuring oaxacan fabrics and furniture  crafted by mexican artisans include 1-2 bedroom casitas and fully staffed (cook  and butler) 3-11 bedroom villas.
the  beach is shallow with small waves and beach toys.
if you can sneak away to the spa, it's well worth it and never disappoints!
we all loved our  experience as there is something to do for every age group.
pavillon de la  reine city/region: paris  accommodation category:
pottery and cooking classes are offered in the summer when there are enough kids.
excursions to wineries are offered, as well as evening  "tastings" in the bar.
located just 20 or so minutes from many of the monterey peninsula's main attractions, carmel valley ranch is resort that is relaxing for all ages and interests we'll be back with our kids!
although the  location is somewhat remote, we loved castello di vicarello and found that it  provided the exact authentic italian experience we wanted for our trip after a  very hectic work schedule.
the ciao bambino community is comprised of parents that  travel with children who appreciate high-quality accommodations and understand  the features that make a property family-friendly.
traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens cuixmala is the coastal estate of sir james goldsmith.
mountains   standard: luxurious   style:
spring creek ranch city/region: jackson hole  accommodation  category:
there are stunning views of the amalfi coast  from all areas of the hotel.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action the property offers apartment living with hotel services.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action set on 113 acres and bordered by a 4,000-acre wildlife sanctuary - guests have many activities to choose from here from bike riding to hiking to hot air ballooning.
pamela and our son had fun exploring  bugs together while my husband and i got some time on our own, a welcome rarity  on a family vacation.
los suenos marina and resort city/region: herradura accommodation category:
hotel location: city standard: luxurious style: old world cb!
water is turquoise/blue.
hotel letizia city/region: sicily accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: upscale style: boutique cb!
spa visit the next day was terrific.
hotel location: mountains standard: upscale style: old world cb!
the hot springs, pool and  waterslide, and kid-friendly swim-up bar are the highlights at  tabacon—this is a great place for school age kids and teens to spend the  day in the water.
resort location: seaside   standard: upscale   style:  contemporary cb!
the hotel is very kid-friendly - the treehouse club is a full service kids club on property featuring weekly island excursions, beach/pool activities, indoor games, arts/crafts, and mid-day movies to escape the sun.
kaanapali alii city/region: maui  accommodation  category:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens this lovely 500-year-old chateau with just 10 rooms is full of character and charm.
la costa resort and spa city/region: san diego accommodation category:
this location is ideal for families who want to easily access florence and the surrounding area, including chianti and siena.
it's also a doable walk to market street to pick up a cable car and to the embarcadero to check out the ferry building.
the location of montestigliano, away from major roads and close to a small village, means that older kids can open the apartment door and go - there is plenty of walking, hiking and biking in the surrounding area.
age rating: baby ready,  school age action, cool for teens over 400 animals roam free at safari  west and visitors can observe them up close in open-air jeeps or stay the night  in stylish tent-cabins.
i thought my kids were  going to get hypothermia).
fantastic place for multiple  families.
if you can sneak away to the spa, it's well worth  it and never disappoints!
we opted for the casita room  with plenty of space and comfortable beds.
there are a myriad of land and water sports available in this area and  the drivers will take you wherever you need to go.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun quiet  and surrounded by beautiful, unspoiled countryside, les limornieres is the  perfect place to relax and unwind with your kids.
resort location: countryside standard: luxurious style: boutique cb!
the property is mommy and daddy  friendly too with a full spa and golf course.
lamanai outpost lodge city/region: orange walk  town  accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens murano glass light fixtures and antique furniture added charm to this family-owned hotel.
there is great pool set a little apart from  the villa we had which was good for the children as well.
my school aged kids loved that they got to make friends with children from all over europe.
pool is nearby and is included in the rental.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens this lovely 500-year-old chateau with just 10 rooms is full of  character and charm.
des baux is a beautiful property in a gorgeous provence setting.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens orquideas is a colorful, spanish-style inn with simple  rooms, some with views.
the countryside setting is  spectacular and full of interesting excursions.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens casa  craig is an upscale apartment with beautiful views.
hands-down the best feature is the location for skiingyou can literally walk off the slopes and drop your skis with the valet and that's it!
the pool was fenced and  also heated, so our little one felt warm inside it.
los suenos marina and resort city/region:  herradura  accommodation category: resort location:  seaside   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
the owner was very knowledgeable about historic sites and made  this vacation the best we've ever had.
simple, comfortable rooms.
piazza barberini is a 15-minute walk to the  spanish steps and via del corso and a 1-minute walk to the subway and bus stop.
excellent service throughout the resort.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens a green vacation destination on a working organic farm  with spectacular food and amazing history.
there is an onsite restaurant and the food is superb.
there are also many  fabulous restaurants nearby.
other onsite facilities include a snack bar, well-maintained swimming pools, and extremely helpful reception staff.
guest units are sparsely furnished but include all the basic necessities families need.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action we loved the "floating"  swimming pool in lake como and beach.
hotel londra palace city/region: venice/veneto accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: upscale style: old world cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the lodge at tiburon makes san francisco area marin-based adventures easy.
there are plenty of  interesting activities in the nearby area too.
apartment accommodations are well-furnished.
tuscany accommodation category: hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
nestled in the canadian rocky mountains in banff national park, it is a very special place to stay.
the property is mommy and daddy friendly too with a full spa and golf course.
reasonable priced resort dining, complete with kids menus.
the  staff was great and very welcoming.
the beach and swimming pools are close  to the condos.
seven stars city/region: turks and  caicos  accommodation category:
the sporting club in  bellagio offers a swimming pool, sunbeds, tennis, and a restaurant.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age  action, cool for teens my kids were so psyched to hang out a the  gorgeous beach at the hotel del coronado.
the overall service here is  highly personalized.
grand hotel de la minerve city/region: rome accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: luxurious style: traditional cb!
although there is no onsite restaurant, groceries and restaurants  are plentiful in this area.
vero beach hotel and spa city/region: florida   accommodation category: hotel location: seaside    standard: upscale   style: boutique cb!
tenuta di spannocchia city/region:
tuscany accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: luxurious style: old world cb!
surrounded by a jungle and private beaches, you will find  crocodiles and turtles, and even open land with zebras, gazelles, and antelope.
lots of little houses, so extended families can all have their own space - everything is really close by.
nicely appointed, the room configuration in these guest units is ideal.
the atmosphere is lively and  social, even more so now that they’ve opened a top-notch organic  restaurant called fig.
easy rollaway/crib availabilityif needed, it is worth requesting a bathroom that is large enough for the crib.
overall the property is extremely kid-friendly with a fee-based kids club offering continuous activities from lei making hula lessons, outdoor movies, and a fun kids pool complete with a pirate ship.
resort location:  seaside   standard: luxurious   style: traditional cb!
everyone on property eats from cuixmala's organic farm with locally sourced (and delicious) cheeses, and dairy and meats from a nearby ranch.
the kitchen was big - we even had a dinner party there with friends.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action cuisinart resort has every amenity you can think of in a wonderful setting.
the property has a fine restaurant located just steps from casa janine with a friendly, english-speaking staff.
the staff is young, friendly, and available to help you bring up, store and take down your ski gear.
a  lovely spa featuring their exclusive mountain plant-derived product line is  paired with a kid-friendly indoor pool.
there is plenty to do in this part of normandy for families.
the property is new so  everything feels fresh including modern kitchens and bathrooms.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens families immediately feel welcome when they arrive at the elms.
the meals were filling and delicious.
we opted for the villa as they are  well-appointed and spacious for families.
guest units are standalone with  air-conditioning.
our room had a beautiful canal view.
right on the ocean, beautiful bathtub water surrounds the facility.
resort location: seaside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
caribe hilton city/region: puerto rico accommodation category:
this property has old-world elegance and grandeur with beautiful public areas.
although this is one of switzerland's landmark luxury hotels, it is very child-friendly.
the caretaker has two daughters that live on the property this contributes to the kid-friendly atmosphere.
rooms are comfortable  and newly updated.
our children love the old-fashioned hotel atmosphere with a huge lounge where they can play games in front of the fire.
located on a lake, the property has a nice view  and a lovely swimming pool in the middle of an "ideal" countryside  landscape.
cribs available for babies and toddlers.
there are a million activities to choose from through every season in this area.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens when we travel as a  family it is most important to be in an intimate place that allows for stress  free time for parents and a safe and secure environment for the kids.
with fully-functional kitchens in each of their one bedroom suites, as well as cribs and pack n' plays available at no extra charge, families can maintain some of their high standards of home.
the owners are excellent – they made us feel welcome and shared  insights about the area.
individual apartments have their own patio with an adjacent grassy area and rooms feature a mix of antiques and practical furnishings.
in the 2010 ski magazine reader survey for nothing.
our kids also love ice skating by the  river during winter months.
our room was spacious and clean and the bathroom had a jacuzzi tub.
it is also in a convenient location to explore key west and other fun florida keys attractions.
koloa  landing city/region: kauai  accommodation category: resort location: seaside   standard:  luxurious   style: traditional cb!
glorious tuscan herbal saunas are  included in the room price.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens carmel valley ranch is a wonderful destination with  kids.
hotel flora city/region: venice/veneto accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: upscale style: old world cb!
the owner, michela, is very helpful and willing to  assist with local insight and reservations.
the decor is traditional and comfortable; rooms are spacious with full kitchens.
smugglers' notch city/region: vermont  accommodation category: resort location: mountains   standard: upscale   style:
hotel adler-thermae city/region: tuscany  accommodation  category:
the pod hotel city/region: new york city  accommodation category: hotel location: city   standard: simple   style:
can park the car once and walk to great skiing (if  visiting in the winter), restaurants, grocery store, coffee shops, etc.
its a great home for hanging out with safe places for kids to explore and plenty or room for playing.
spring creek ranch city/region: jackson hole accommodation category:
yoga, crafts, drama, hiking, baking, and field trips to the thermal hot springs and a local cheese farm.
fairmont mayakoba city/region:
the setting is gorgeous with scrub oak-covered hillseven without the animals it is a fantastic place.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun a cozy villa in one of the most beautiful spots in tuscany  near the border with umbria.
hotel location: mountains   standard:  luxurious   style: boutique cb!
this picturesque alpine-style hotel feels like it is straight out of austria.
all condos are individually owned and furnished and  have full kitchens and laundry, with one or two bedrooms.
it's lined with plenty of benches, lush foliage, and colorful storefronts.
locanda di bagnara city/region: emilia romagna   accommodation category: hotel location: city    standard: upscale   style: old world cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun marco beach ocean resort  is located on wonderful beach.
nicola, the manager, lives on the property and is extremely helpful with dinner reservations, map orientation, and tourist information.
guest accommodation options include rooms, condos, and  individual houses with in-house chefs.
a three minute walk to the ferry, easy access to the charming marin towns and a day or so of tiburon-centric explorations win points for the lodge.
the local shopping mall is within walking distance, as are an array of  restaurants.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action tucked away among the beautiful kilkenny countryside, byrnesgrove is a most  welcoming farmstay.
in the evenings the children could have supervised dinner and a movie while the grown-ups had an elegant dinner.
minutes from shopping center and autostrada.
with a tree house to play in, woods to explore, animals to feed and fishing on  premise, you can truly relax here and forget about the winding irish roads for  a few days.
the resort has  undergone a multi-million dollar makeover, and has many things to offer: three  pools, a jacuzzi, a 27 hole golf course, 25 tennis courts, a spa with its own  pool, children's camp, a water fantasy land called splashtopia - a neat aquatic  playground including a lazy river, two 100 foot water slides, and a small sand  beach.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens this villa has fantastic outdoor spaces including a heated swimming pool and a covered, poolside loggia for meals.
the property is fun with toddlers as there are many areas to walk around and explore.
they take all-inclusive  to an entirely new level as the private staff includes a personal chef, butler,  driver, and housekeeping.
it is a safe and fun set-up for families.
families have a wide range of rooms to choose from including options with multiple bedrooms, kitchenette facilities, and private living space.
the staff was so kind and informative, really helped us with an itinerary prior to our arrival.
elua village city/region:
everyone enjoys the gorgeous grounds and amenities.
westin mission hills resort & spa city/region: palm springs accommodation category: resort location: city standard: upscale style:
convenient and reasonably priced - this hotel has thought of  everything and is a great option for families with tweens and teens.
our unit had character, was comfortable, and felt like  home - this is exactly the kind of hotel experience we wanted with a toddler.
connecting rooms and baby  equipment are readily available, and they accommodate food requests for  children.
there is great pool set a little apart from the villa we had which was good for the children as well.
be sure to bring your  warmest clothes!
four seasons resort hualalai city/region: hawaii accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: luxurious style: contemporary cb!
the somerset city/region: turks and caicos  accommodation category: hotel location: seaside   standard: luxurious    style:
vista verde guest ranch city/region: rocky mountains accommodation category: ranch location: mountains standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
all-in-all, this resort is a perfect family vacation spot!
each room is unique, we stayed in a 2 bedroom suite that was so comfortable.
in the evenings the children could have  supervised dinner and a movie while the grown-ups had an elegant dinner.
a kid-friendly swimming beach with restaurant,  showers, volleyball, and other luxuries, large central pool, children's pool  with water slide and adjacent family jacuzzi, a separate more grown-up jacuzzi  with views of the bay, poolside bar, tennis, horseback riding, two golf  courses, kid-friendly dining, and recently refurbished rooms in the main hotel  large enough to accommodate a family of four in a double room.
the horses are fabulous and well-trained.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age  action, cool for teens the somerset is a special place.
as far as activities go, there was never a dull moment from horseback riding, atv drives, fishing, and skeet shooting to name a few.
rooms are  well-appointed, comfortable, and ideally configured with connecting options for  families.
the olive house city/region:  paros  accommodation category: villa location:  seaside   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
age rating: baby ready,  school age action, cool for teens there’s a good reason steamboat  is one of the top family-friendly ski areas – in addition to ideal ski  terrain for kids, there is an enormous array of condo accommodations with an  ideal set-up and price point for families.
there are multiple restaurants onsite, in addition to other good options in the area.
fireplace that they will start for you.
mini-golf, cracker jax race cars, and a  train park with a carousel are nearby.
the food is great and abundant.
marriott timber lodge city/region: lake tahoe accommodation category: resort location: mountains standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
in addition to the beautiful regular pool, which includes a circular  "rapids" area, there is a second pool with therapeutic thermal water  pumped in from the local hot springs.
les limornieres city/region: loire valley accommodation category: villa location: countryside standard: simple style: traditional cb!
this mountain view hotel has individually decorated, cozy rooms and suites, some on two levels.
other onsite facilities include a snack bar, well-maintained swimming  pools, and extremely helpful reception staff.
the staff is super-friendly and  we found the onsite restaurant saddles to be very nice, yet low-key enough for  kids.
resort location: countryside standard: luxurious style:
it is in the center of town so everything is close, including the glass funicular which the kids love to ride.
our family of 5 was  extremely comfortable in the 2-bedroom flat we rented in this building.
the rooftop restaurant  and bar has views that are captivating for all ages.
a sliding door gives parents privacy and it is perfect for putting the children to sleep and enjoying late dinners with other guests or a private drink under the stars.
it is set on 240 acres in the desert, centrally located at the foot of mount san jacinto.
the staff is phenomenal and i cant say enough about their treatment and flexibility for all agesthey catered to our needs in every way.
there is a kid's game room, swimming pool and outdoor jacuzzi.
cottages are well-appointed for families.
parents will appreciate the beautiful spa, outdoor  adult pool, and fitness classes (must be 18+).
we all loved it, especially our grandchildren ages 3, 5 and 6.
best of all, tourist highlights such as kilkenny castle and dunmore cave are an easy drive from here.
the expansive grounds are beautiful with a trampoline, ping pong,  and loads of room for running around.
turtle bay resort city/region:
in an unbeatable location right at the mountain's base, the sky hotel  makes you feel ongoing après ski even with kids in tow.
in the winter, there is a toboggan ride  next to the hotel which the older kids loved.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool  for teens bluefields bay villas are an exclusive collection of six  seaside homes with with stunning caribbean views.
there is a kid's game room, swimming  pool and outdoor jacuzzi.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens residence barberini is comprised of spacious apartment-style rooms in  an extremely convenient location.
there is also a zero entry pool that is a safe and fun  way to enjoy the magnificent pool with small kids.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens families immediately feel welcome when they arrive at  the elms.
great childcare options are offered with special programs planned around holiday times.
more  beach area for exploring the natural coral which has washed ashore and volcanic  rock formations.
ceiba del mar city/region: yucatan  peninsula  accommodation category:
the property is small and intimate with a quiet feel and beautiful grounds.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens a fantastic ski house that sleeps over 20 and is loaded with amenities for a multi-family stay.
albergo santa chiara is a  perfect value option for rome and we've referred many friends and family over  the years.
the property has extremely comfortable rooms and the spa services are outstanding.
there is a supervised children's program that will care for infants  as well as toddlers, and many kids activities including table tennis, a  trampoline, playground, and a fantastic indoor swimming pool.
the range of  activities, including horse back riding, mountain biking, kayaking, challenge  courses, camp fires, archery ... kept us busy.
kid-focused amenities shine and include a water park plus an excellent kids' club (ages 4-12) that thoroughly entertained our kids.
it's  also an easy walk to many of the highlights of palermo and the waterfront.
the owners are excellent they made us feel welcome and shared insights about the area.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens located on kaanapali beach and whalers village, kaanapali alii has spacious condos with beautiful ocean and mountain views.
inn at sugar bowl city/region: lake tahoe  accommodation  category:
resort location: seaside standard: luxurious style: traditional cb!
the two-bedroom apartments in this building have plenty of  room for a family with 2-3 kids to spread out and relax.
honua kai resort and spa city/region: hawaii accommodation category: hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style: boutique cb!
there are so many onsite amenities at this property that staying here was like being in our own private resort.
traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens we had an incredible experience here.
the fairmont orchid city/region: hawaii   accommodation category: resort location: seaside    standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
marriott desert  springs villas city/region: palm springs  accommodation category:  resort location: countryside   standard:  upscale   style:
the atmosphere is lively and social, even more so now that theyve opened a top-notch organic restaurant called fig.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens located in the heart of  the village at mammoth, the condo guest rooms rooms at the village lodge  provide the space and amenities families need, with convenient access to  everything including the gondola.
the atmosphere  is friendly and the food is excellent.
bathrooms are roomy and nicely appointed.
age rating: baby ready, toddler  fun, school age action, cool for teens hotel del sol is conveniently  located, kid-durable yet hip, filled with great sf to-do ideas and affordable.
can park the car once and walk to great skiing (if visiting in the winter), restaurants, grocery store, coffee shops, etc.
the hotel is at the far end of south beach on the beach so guests have access to a private part of the beach and are away from the "action" of ocean drive, yet close enough to enjoy the sights.
there are 2 gourmet grocery stores within walking distance  and nice neighborhood restaurants.
this property has old-world elegance and  grandeur with beautiful public areas.
handcrafted décor, toasty fires, and exceptional service create a warm and cozy atmosphere for all ages at the trapp family lodge.
we love that this hotel is steps away from the place des vosges square a beautiful patch of greenery in a magnificent setting perfect for younger children who need a fun place to run around.
yucatan peninsula accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style: boutique cb!
located on a private wine estate, the property is warm, friendly, well-kept, and surrounded by beautiful scenery.
the food is very good,  both poolside and in the dining room.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action walking distance from downtown sonoma,  macarthur place is an integrated inn and spa.
tuscany   accommodation category: resort location:  countryside   standard: luxurious   style:  boutique cb!
the staff was so kind and informative, really helped us with an  itinerary prior to our arrival.
the gym is absolutely top notch too, with excellent machines and yoga.
the local shopping mall is within walking distance, as are an array of restaurants.
smugglers' notch city/region: vermont accommodation category: resort location: mountains standard: upscale style:
the location is not on the water but still works well - it is 2 blocks from the beach.
public areas are lively and the restaurant is a bit  barish, but fine with kids.
rooms have wifi and there  is a computer in lobby with internet access.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens this upscale hotel makes everyone feel welcome.
the food is excellent at the  restaurants as well.
kids have  access to board games and cards, kid-focused city exploring tips, kids’  snacks, and free tickets to navy pier (even the trolley ride over).
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action
try and select an upgraded room (casita or casita suite).
stowe is a great year-round  destination.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we had our family reunion in masia bessones with a mix of children and adults.
the upscale villa has nice decor and comes fully staffed.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action set on 113 acres and bordered by a  4,000-acre wildlife sanctuary - guests have many activities to choose from here  from bike riding to hiking to hot air ballooning.
marco beach ocean resort city/region: florida accommodation category:
the restaurant went out of their way to offer unique, kid-friendly foods.
the food is excellent at the restaurants as well.
aurora, the owner, is great and she really took  care of us.
hotel belvedere city/region: lake  como  accommodation category:
rooms rates are  value-oriented for this area.
the property has lush vegetation, and paths that lead into the jungle where you can see and hear howler monkeys, beautiful birds and wonderful mayan ruins.
although this is a luxury, old-world property, there are many fantastic onsite amenities for children including a cooking school (8-12 years old), painting lessons, football/soccer lessons with private coach, heated open-air swimming pool, huge gardens, and children's menu.
the beach and setting are insanely beautiful.
there is no noise or  light pollution and sleeping is easy for everyone.
it is very civilized but kids can still swing  on vines and feel like tarzan!
some rooms overlook the grand canal — ask for a room  with that view, it's worth it!
many things nearby - incredible swimming quarries, fishing, canoeing.
resort location: seaside standard: simple style: traditional cb!
accommodations include everything you need in terms of equipment for kids and is a wonderland to explore.
childcare is provided by the farmer's daughter (she is delightful).
there’s an onsite restaurant and rooftop lounge, and the location is ideal  for exploring chicago, just one block off the magnificent mile on michigan  avenue.
catamaran  resort city/region: san diego  accommodation category: hotel location: city   standard: simple    style: traditional cb!
the owners and staff are very friendly and will do anything  to make your stay memorable.
regis san francisco city/region: san francisco bay area accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: luxurious style:
catered cottage city/region: derbyshire accommodation category: villa location: countryside standard: upscale style:
the  tents are authentic, yet warm and comfortable.
great  restaurants are within walking distance and there are also grocery stores  nearby.
it is a ferry ride from waterford with easy access to area sights.
we opted for the villa as they are well-appointed and spacious for families.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens seven stars has a great set up for families with spacious condo units overlooking one of the prettiest beaches i've ever seen.
johnny and  pamela our hosts clearly love children.
the hotel has daily kids activities, offers surging  lessons, and rents a variety of bikes including cruisers, tandems, and surreys.
the details here are handled with care  and everything runs smoothly, this is why the same families love to come back  year after year.
orquideas inn city/region:
the raleigh offers exactly this.
great family bike rentals to ride all along shoreline and see the wharf and harbor.
a few outdoor fireplaces entertain adults.
there is a store for supplies and great local restaurants nearby.
pottery and cooking classes are offered in the summer when  there are enough kids.
as a side trip we went to the ice hotel (do not stay there...we did
the overall ambiance is intimate versus a larger-property resort feel.
age rating casa craig city/region: lake como accommodation category: apartment location: lake standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
if youre not in the mood to get sandy, take the kids to the resorts private water playground slyders.
arthur's pass wilderness lodge city/region: arthur's  pass  accommodation category: hotel location:
there is a lovely enclosed garden where families can sit outside and relax.
this is a great area for walking.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens weve been going to aspen for 4-5 weeks every summer for years and i know of no condo-hotel that is nicer or better run in aspen than the gant.
a large balcony provides views of the lagoon  and/or resort.
hyatt regency lake tahoe city/region: lake tahoe accommodation category:
the boulders resort city/region: arizona accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: luxurious style:
lamanai is rustic but  upscale for anyone who wants a "jungle experience".
premier suites city/region: dublin accommodation category:
the location is fabulous behind the pantheon and you  can walk everywhere from here.
kid-focused amenities shine and include a water park plus an excellent  kids' club (ages 4-12) that thoroughly entertained our kids.
multiple aquariums are a constant source of entertainment.
jw marriott san antonio  hill country resort & spa city/region: san antonio   accommodation category:
hotel location: seaside   standard: upscale   style:  trendy cb!
there is a world-class spa, indoor and outdoor swimming pools, as well  as welcoming family-oriented amenities including tea, cookies, arts &  crafts, and board games for kids.
lanais are perfectly set up for outdoor living with full dining areas.
ballyvolane house city/region:  cork  accommodation category:
the bathroom was also configured to be very private so that nobody (kids or adults) would wake the others when using it in the middle of the night.
the all-suite resort is beautifully appointed with renovated kitchens, marble bathrooms, and luxury linens.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we've traveled everywhere and this is one of our favorite resorts in the world with kids.
pricing is value-oriented for the space, room amenities, and location.
public areas are family-oriented, warm, and inviting and the decks facing the lake have fantastic views.
you also have full run of the  grounds, from the gardens (basically unchanged since the 18th century) to the  lakes, where fly-fishing lessons are offered for grown-ups and kids.
the owners are very friendly and helpful.
gondola can pick up right in front.
when we arrived, the kitchen was stocked with fruit,  fresh baked goods, and wine – terrific!
each and every need and desire was handled immediately with a smile and attention to detail.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens montestigliano is a  typical turn-of-the-century italian property that retains its charm because of  smart renovation.
a brilliant concept of this property is the inclusion of a phenomenal kids program which provides children their own spa experience as well as swimming, sports.
junior suites are the perfect configuration for families with  separate rooms.
lighted pathways lead to the open air dining room where all meals  are communal but not family style.
our  time with them couldn't have been better.
chateau esperance city/region: dordogne accommodation category: villa location: countryside standard: luxurious style: old world cb!
montets city/region: chamonix  accommodation category:
tanque verde guest ranch city/region: arizona accommodation category:
although the beach in front of the hotel is not swimmable for young  kids, it’s an excellent place for kayaking and water sports.
the ponds on the property are  fun for young kids.
the proximity to the  mountain is second to none: you walk out the door of the hotel and you are  steps from the gondola and lifts.
the  pod has roof-top patio with fabulous views of the city.
the primary onsite restaurant is delicious, resort casual, and has an amazing glass wall wine cellar with an extensive selection.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens poggio al casone is comprised of 10 thoughtfully restored self-catering apartments.
nicola, the manager, lives on the property  and is extremely helpful with dinner reservations, map orientation, and tourist  information.
the views from the property are magnificent.
the decor is traditional and comfortable; rooms are spacious  with full kitchens.
the fully equipped kitchens are some of the best ive seen in this accommodation category.
the pool offers great play and people watching during the summertime.
we stayed in casa janine, a three-story  villa adjacent to a restored church with one-room suites on each level and  wonderful views of the surrounding countryside.
the location is close to tuscon, but the property borders on public land so it feels secluded.
meanwhile, parents can enjoy the restaurant and bar that  overlook the pool area.
grand hotel de la minerve city/region: rome  accommodation  category:
this is a true "cowboy"  guest ranch with a great kids riding program.
jean-michel  cousteau fiji islands resort city/region: savusavu  accommodation  category: hotel location: seaside   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
the views are spectacular and the gardens feel distinctly mediterranean with lemon trees and views of the sea.
fairmont mayakoba city/region: yucatan  peninsula  accommodation category: resort location:  seaside   standard: upscale   style: contemporary cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens this historic property has many fantastic amenities and  services for families.
the location of the white elephant is unbeatable for nantucket if you  want to have easy access to town activities with kids.
every room has screens and air-conditioning.
the concierge team was excellent and made us feel right at homethey were very accommodating.
part of the luxury family hotels group, the property fully embraces  children of all ages.
this location excellent for regional sightseeing - pisa, florence, lucca, and cinque terre are all within reach.
there is also a kid's club on premise.
casa zorzi city/region: venice/veneto  accommodation category:
in addition to the phenomenal skiing in this area, there is a zip-line,  mountain adventure center, and mountain bike riding over summer months.
the beach is rocky but fun to explore.
meals are all homemade and delicious.
the  hotel is luxurious but not pretentious, key for a family-friendly atmosphere.
this location is one of the most beautiful, idyllic parts of the region and the views are outrageous.
the beachfront grounds include wide-open spaces for kids to run  around.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens tanque verde is a resort-style guest ranch.
the entire property has a smart period feel.
in contrast to the adult-oriented scene of other  seaside resort areas in florida, the atmosphere of marco island is very  family-friendly.
everyone onsite went out of their way to offer a personalized experience for our son.
the owner, michela, is very helpful and willing to assist with local insight and reservations.
the meals are varied  and elegant and unforgettable.
plus, there are many grassy areas for young kids to roam and play.
there are beautiful ocean and jungle views from all areas  of the property.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we loved our experience  at spring creek ranch.
the hotel is extremely convenient  as it is walking distance to shops, restaurants, and the ferry.
the owners have created an atmosphere that is warm, comfortable, yet still upscale.
a kid-friendly swimming beach with restaurant, showers, volleyball, and other luxuries, large central pool, children's pool with water slide and adjacent family jacuzzi, a separate more grown-up jacuzzi with views of the bay, poolside bar, tennis, horseback riding, two golf courses, kid-friendly dining, and recently refurbished rooms in the main hotel large enough to accommodate a family of four in a double room.
saunton sands hotel city/region: devon accommodation category:
located on a lake, the property has a nice view and a lovely swimming pool in the middle of an "ideal" countryside landscape.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens set in the gorgeous val  d'orcia, in close proximity to the wonderful hilltop towns of pienza,  montalcino, and montepulciano, adler-thermae is a thermal spa resort that  combines zen sensibilities with tuscan charm and hospitality.
you will find skiing, snowboarding, cross country skiing, tubing,  fishing, hiking, biking, dog carting, and more.
standard | location | city or region | accommodation category | cb!
atlantis city/region: bahamas  accommodation  category:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action tucked away among the beautiful kilkenny countryside, byrnesgrove is a most welcoming farmstay.
golf facilities are first rate and feature a natural grass driving range.
since they have 3 kids, they have almost anything  you forget to bring from toys to raincoats.
the food quality is fresh and good with a nice selection of kid-friendly foods.
hotel monaco seattle city/region:  seattle  accommodation category:
bauer casa nova city/region: venice/veneto accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: luxurious style:
the focus here is not kids - but if you like the luxury of an adult only property where kids are welcome too, this is the place.
hotel location:  seaside   standard: upscale   style: boutique cb!
it is set on 240 acres in the  desert, centrally located at the foot of mount san jacinto.
staff was friendly and helpful.
full kitchen in the villa rooms.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens hawks cay is an all around great hotel option for kids of all ages.
the atmosphere is casual yet classy and the location  provides easy access to the ski resort.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens koloa landing is  comprised of extremely high quality one to four bedroom condo units in a resort  setting.
there is a fabulous massage therapist  onsite too.
the apartments are close to  perugia, asissi and cortona - a great location for exploring and easy access  with roads.
located in desirable dollar point - a short drive to restaurants etc.
the property is in a good location - a short walk to the ferry stop in tremezzo and local restaurants.
colle san paolo city/region: umbria accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
it's like being in a private home where guests of all ages feel  comfortable and relaxed.
cuixmala city/region: costalegre  accommodation category:
there is also a beautiful infinity hot tub and more adult-oriented pool  adjacent to the lobby of the hotel.
the setting is dramatic and there  are wonderful walks and views in the area - it's also fun to rent electric  boats on the lake.
hotel location:  countryside   standard: upscale   style: boutique cb!
the gant  aspen city/region: rocky mountains  accommodation category: resort location: mountains   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
with fully-functional kitchens in  each of their one bedroom suites, as well as cribs and pack n' plays available  at no extra charge, families can maintain some of their high standards of home.
hyatt regency washington
this property is an ideal choice for families that want a private,  intimate hotel experience in an atmospheric neighborhood filled with local  color.
the lodge at tiburon city/region: san francisco bay area accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: upscale style:
kids have access to board games and cards, kid-focused city exploring tips, kids snacks, and free tickets to navy pier (even the trolley ride over).
hotel location: countryside standard: upscale style:
they didnt earn the #1 spot for family programs (for 12th year!)
the lodge at steamboat city/region: rocky mountains  accommodation category: resort location: mountains   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
there is also a beautiful infinity hot tub and more adult-oriented pool adjacent to the lobby of the hotel.
it’s a great home for hanging out with safe places for kids to explore and  plenty or room for playing.
hotel continental city/region: italian riviera accommodation category: hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
rooms are quirky and somewhat dated, but the phenomenal, convenient location makes up for any lack of polish.
having an onsite babysitter was just amazing, this enabled my husband and i to go to the spa and have a couples massage and then enjoy an evening with other adults.
dinner, served one night a week, is high class and recommended - the owners participate and the chef is great.
it is comprised of a variety of apartments and villas, each with its own design.
children are welcome and there are many activities offered to them, but it is all very low-key.
the highlight for them was  the extensive and creative activities for kids of all ages including unique and  cultural programs like hula dancing and mask making.
relaxing breakfast served in the veranda in the gardens.
the elms hotel & spa city/region:  worcestershire  accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens tucked into the nook of  a private peninsula in san juan, the resort is the only one in the city with a  private beach.
guest rooms are spacious with fun kimptonkids treats and amenities.
villas and grounds are very family-oriented with full kitchen and laundry facilities in each unit, central playground, kid's activity center and individual pool for each group of villas if you want a quieter day.
resort location: seaside   standard:  simple   style: traditional cb!
just a mile from  yosemite national park, access to park attractions and a wide variety of  outdoor adventures is easy.
we love that hawks cay is small enough so kids can have a bit of independence and walk around on their own.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the fairmont miramar is one of the landmark hotels in santa monica.
rooms have traditional décor and  the sea view rooms with balconies are outstanding.
the one-bedroom suite accommodations are perfect for families as there is  a back bedroom plus a sofa bed in the living room so parents get a bit of  privacy.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens i love this property.
ideally located on wilshire boulevard  with easy access to area attractions, shopping and restaurants.
the owners have created an atmosphere that is  warm, comfortable, yet still upscale.
hawaii accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
for the most part, we stayed put and enjoyed the  beautiful space and grounds.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens half moon is a large  400 acre plantation style property that surprisingly feels intimate.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action the resort was lovely and exceeded our expectations.
a big part of the  appeal is that it feels like home here—the property is well-appointed with  the ideal combination of condo amenities and hotel services like daily maid  service.
fabulous! club med cancun yucatan city/region:
if you call ahead, they will even stock the fridge for you.
bavarian forest holidays city/region: bayerisch eisenstein  accommodation category: apartment location: mountains   standard:  simple   style:
cribs available  for babies and toddlers.
the hotel is in a very high traffic area for tourists, but this is a fabulous location for access all of the main attractions.
the italian fine dining  restaurant offers by far the best food on the island.
the concierge always helps us with fun activities that we enjoy doing together for family time.
the inviting lobby lounge is an  ideal venue for family games and apres ski fun.
the apartment was child/baby ready with all amenities - cot, baby bath, stair gates, bed guards, highchairs, etc.
we stayed in a cottage and a tent and the kids loved the tent!
featuring a wide range of activities for all ages including a kids club and a nearby zip-line, the property is very family-friendly with year-round things to do.
easy day trips to venice and  exploring the veneto region.
el capitan canyon city/region: santa barbara accommodation category:
the  property is very family-friendly with a children’s program and extensive  year-round outdoor activities.
the concierge team was excellent and made us feel right at  home—they were very accommodating.
resort location: seaside   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
this apartment is wonderful with all amenities to make a family stay very comfortable.
furnishings are  comfortable and casual which makes it relaxing for stays with kids.
we had a fantastic time!
hotel location: lake    standard: upscale   style: contemporary cb!
stoweflake city/region:
it offers an excellent horseback riding program for all ages and abilities.
fighine city/region: tuscany  accommodation category:
residence  barberini city/region: rome  accommodation category: apartment location: city   standard: simple    style: trendy cb!
my 3 month old loved her own spa treatment: an infant massage and  bath in milk and honey.
views are fabulous, service is warm and  friendly, the atmosphere is authentically tropical and rooms are modern and  chic.
the hotel has a beautiful, big lobby with fireplaces where you can sit and have a drink, read a book, or play a game.
to top it off, the setting is wonderful with fantastic ocean  views.
accommodations include everything you need in terms of equipment  for kids and is a wonderland to explore.
this  property is a wonderful place for hands-on farm experiences for children  (holding baby sheep, shearing, learning about farm life, etc.)
apartment location: city standard: upscale style: boutique cb!
i thought my kids were going to get hypothermia).
, you come upon a herd of sheep, so animated  and friendly, grazing on breathtakingly beautiful grounds.
although stoweflake is not ski-in/ski-out, parking is easy at the ski hill and we love that the hotel is located right in the adorable town of stowe with easy access to restaurants and shops.
this is not one of those kids hotels where you are surrounded by animation.
the views from ocean-facing units are to die for and there is a beautiful, large swimming pool and an onsite playground that my kids loved.
our villa had a kitchen however bosque del cabo has incredible  food and the staff is very friendly and helpful.
little details are done very wellthere is an outdoor bbq for meals with a grassy area where kids can run around while adults sip wine.
2 lower floors have the rooms  with bedrooms most having an en-suite or bathroom directly across from the  bedroom.
resort location: seaside   standard:  upscale   style: boutique cb!
breakfast on the terrace  overlooking villa rufolo and the mediterranean sea is not to be missed.
rooms are clean and spacious for the city.
just off the main street housing all the high-end stores.
this is one of those special places where it is easy  for adults to enjoy themselves while kids are having a blast.
reviews community reviews review a property
age rating: baby ready, school age action fighine is a restored hamlet comprised of five rental villas and an 11th  century castle (the owner’s residence) reached at the end of a long gravel  road outside of san casciano dei bagni.
rooms are simple (3 star) but spacious and there are  a few configurations that support families.
our kids also love ice skating by the river during winter months.
standard | location | city or region | accommodation category |  cb!
travelers newsletter | join in the fun, write a review home | destinations | hotel reviews | hotel specials | blog | travel tips | about us | property partners | policies | sitemap
we liked it so much we went there three years in a row.
if you are looking for a true irish country house experience that embraces your children too, this is it.
the local host, jackie, is a gem and provides extensive services and guidance.
every detail for kids has been thought of here - from swim diapers at the pool to customized special treats in the room; the result is parents are able to relax too and
the property also features multiple swimming pools, bbqs for guest use, daily housekeeping, a gym, spa treatments, and gourmet marketplace for groceries and prepared foods.
the property is comprised of three self-catering cottages that you can rent independently or together for larger groups.
in addition to  top notch skiing, smuggs offers a huge list of activities including a  waterpark, zip line canopy tour, mini golf, fishing, biking ... the list goes  on and on.
fabulous housekeeping service in  every condo means parents get a break too.
apartment  accommodations are well-furnished.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens there are a number of  family-oriented activities for all ages at la costa including a beach pool with  a waterpark and slides, as well as kidtopia and teenzone facilities with  daycare for young kids and teens alike.
with direct flights from new york and many us cities, it's a perfect escape for a long weekend or a week-long vacation.
bocas del toro accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style:
nice home-base for area exploration including imola, ravenna, and bologna.
ranch location: mountains standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
our room was spacious and beautifully decorated.
there are lovely outdoor areas for dining al fresco and the views are spectacular.
this property is an ideal choice for families that want a private, intimate hotel experience in an atmospheric neighborhood filled with local color.
age rating: toddler fun, school age action, baby ready, cool for teens smuggs is a place for families who really enjoy doing things together.
hotel mas des carassins city/region: provence accommodation category:
the history tour of the von trapp family is a highlight its fascinating to learn first-hand details about this iconic family portrayed in the the sound of music.
ideally located on wilshire boulevard with easy access to area attractions, shopping and restaurants.
the property has a fine restaurant located just steps from casa janine  with a friendly, english-speaking staff.
la sovana city/region:
clay brook at sugarbush city/region:  vermont  accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens memorable manicured lawn in front of sandy beach welcomes romping children of all ages.
the 1-3 bedroom suites are ideal  for multi-generational trips with kids as they are spacious with room for  everyone to spread out.
the recently renovated rooms are roomy and clean and the staff is  warm and helpful.
golf carts and boat rides make for easy transport throughout this rather large resort.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens our girls are still asking when they can go back to hualalai and tell us that this trip to hawaii was the best vacation they've every had.
the location is excellent with just a 5-minute shuttle ride to the base of the ski area.
a former presbytery, the ambiance is  medieval - a fun and fascinating atmosphere for kids.
age rating: toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens this upscale "camping" resort is great for families who want to experience the natural beauty of the california coast without the effort of really roughing it.
the mount washington resort offers rooms, suites, and  also townhouse units where you have access to all hotel facilities with more  living space and kitchens.
monterey peninsula accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: upscale style: contemporary cb!
moreover, the general manager, marco, is very well-connected in the area and specializes in creating exclusive itineraries and activities for his guests.
room have a  sink, fridge, and stove that are good for simple meals although the restaurant  is excellent and flexible about meal times which makes it relaxing for everyone.
the views and smells at this property are calming  and beautiful with gorgeous gardens and a relaxing pool.
most impressive of all, is the  staff.
it's lined with plenty of benches, lush foliage, and colorful  storefronts.
the atmosphere is warm and inviting, with large enough rooms for families to be comfortable.
hands-down the best feature is the location for skiing—you can  literally walk off the slopes and drop your skis with the valet and that's it!
huge, beautiful beach, to build sand castles or ride bike along shore.
montelago village resort city/region: las vegas  accommodation category: resort location: lake   standard: upscale   style:
all units have full  kitchens and private lanais and most have clothes washers.
it's a 10 minute walk into the small town of st. remy which has plenty of good  restaurants and shops.
hotel location: lake standard: luxurious style: old world cb!
staying at  this resort feels like you are on your own private tropical island getaway  featuring luxurious condo-style rooms with gourmet kitchens and plenty of space  for families.
the  raleigh offers exactly this.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens theres a good reason steamboat is one of the top family-friendly ski areas in addition to ideal ski terrain for kids, there is an enormous array of condo accommodations with an ideal set-up and price point for families.
if  you’re not in the mood to get sandy, take the kids to the resort’s  private water playground slyders.
the apartment was child/baby ready with all amenities - cot, baby bath,  stair gates, bed guards, highchairs, etc.
the beach is gorgeous with calm, swimmable surf.
age rating:  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens elua village is  comprised of fully equipped condominiums.
blue heaven city/region: jamaica accommodation category: villa location: seaside standard: upscale style:
the pool is  the highlight with activities for all ages (they have a full aquatic  playground) plus cabanas to escape the sun in comfort and style.
the food is very good, both poolside and in the dining room.
the lodge at steamboat stands out as an excellent choice for those seeking upscale rooms paired value-oriented pricing.
guests have the freedom to do as they  please.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens hotel del sol is conveniently located, kid-durable yet hip, filled with great sf to-do ideas and affordable.
interior decorations are funky and modern.
this luxurious hotel has beautiful  rooms and ocean views.
a really warm welcome from the owners who could not be more helpful.
the outdoor swimming pool is heated year-round and perfect for families.
we'll return year after year.
it offers an excellent horseback riding program for all ages and  abilities.
we stayed in one of the condo units which comfortably fit our extended family of nine.
there are hotel rooms and villa units available.
the staff is very friendly and there is an  on-site travel company to help plan excursions.
if you're looking for  the ultimate chalet-style luxury experience, this is it.
orange walk town accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: simple style: old world cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens this historic property has many fantastic amenities and services for families.
the sheer beauty of the resort, mountains, and rivers is beyond compare.
hotel location: mountains   standard:  upscale   style:
each elegantly decorated home comes with private staff and a swimming pool.
room have a sink, fridge, and stove that are good for simple meals although the restaurant is excellent and flexible about meal times which makes it relaxing for everyone.
there’s a terrific  indoor pool—the highlight for our kids—and a nice work out facility  as well.
we liked it so much we went  there three years in a row.
families have lots of accommodation choices at topnotch, from deluxe double bedded rooms all the way up to overlook resort homes.
part of the luxury family hotels group, the property fully embraces children of all ages.
you can stay in a safari tent equipped with comfortable beds with luxurious bed linens, down comforters, and daily maid service.
the westin ka'anapali ocean resort villas city/region:
located south  of market, this is an easy walk to adult play (restaurants, bars and shopping)  as well as kid play (metreon, carousel, gardens).
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun this villa has a beautiful view and is located above the round hill resort.
rooms are  quirky and somewhat dated, but the phenomenal, convenient location makes up for  any lack of polish.
carmel valley ranch city/region:
there are some lovely towns to explore in this area and the beach is a short drive away.
the location  is great with very good service and amenities.
the resort offers daily yoga, exercise classes and even mountain biking and hiking through the tuscan hills.
every child has a personal nanny that is available to care for them, every night there is a kid's dinner, and there is an adult pool and kid's pool.
highlights included  nature hikes and cave visits.
this is a true "cowboy" guest ranch with a great kids riding program.
there is kids club offered during summer months for ages 4-12.
age rating: baby ready,  school age action finca rosa blanca is a great jumping off point for a  vacation in costa rica.
the resort has great pools for a variety of ages including one for babies and a kids pool with slides.
there are many  family-oriented activities offered here including horseback riding, swimming,  spa, and tennis.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens we had a phenomenal stay at the trump hotel in chicago.
we stayed in "the pig sty" a converted pig sty  which is now a luxe and gorgeous family suite.
rocky mountains accommodation category: resort location: mountains standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
wexford accommodation category: hotel location: countryside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
age rating: baby  ready, school age action, cool for teens centrally located near a-1  superhighway.
you also have full run of the grounds, from the gardens (basically unchanged since the 18th century) to the lakes, where fly-fishing lessons are offered for grown-ups and kids.
guest rooms have all the conveniences of home.
rooms are simple, comfortable, and spacious and a  good value for this area.
in addition to the beautiful regular pool, which includes a circular "rapids" area, there is a second pool with therapeutic thermal water pumped in from the local hot springs.
the food and staff are both excellent.
mirror lake inn city/region: adirondack mountains accommodation category: hotel location: mountains standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
the location is great for regional exploration and when a break from sightseeing is needed the pool is idyllic and perfect for kids.
onsite amenities include a restaurant and swimming poolits small and deepbut still a nice alternative to the beach.
we had a wonderful private dinner on our rooftop terrace one night.
maui   accommodation category: resort location: seaside    standard: simple   style: traditional cb!
the cottage is a  wonderful escape.
age rating: baby ready,  school age action, cool for teens beautiful inn in a quaint vermont  town.
cook in or walk to fabulous family friendly restaurant on resort premises or next door to the sheraton.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens small, family-run hotel in the castello area of venice.
approved stamp paired with the community recommended stamp.
several pools to choose from along with activities for the  children at the kid's club.
the church bells were loud at night - but that was  part of the venice experience.
recently redesigned, it invites you in with large leather  chairs, couches, and rustic-chic furnishings.
parents will appreciate the beautiful spa, outdoor adult pool, and fitness classes (must be 18+).
many of their guests return  year-after-year and there are always kids of all ages around.
fabulous, upscale restaurant, made special  dishes for the kids.
since it's part of the joie de vivre hotels, you can build frequency points as well.
recently redesigned, it invites you in with large leather chairs, couches, and rustic-chic furnishings.
garden had a bbq and  there was little to no passing traffic.
the concept of getting away and having meals cooked for you in a private  home is brilliant.
resort location:  countryside   standard: simple   style: old world cb!
the local host, jackie, is a gem and provides  extensive services and guidance.
the interior  is new, but the property retains an old-school farmhouse feel.
marignolle relais & charm city/region: florence   accommodation category: hotel location:  countryside   standard: upscale   style: boutique cb!
more beach area for exploring the natural coral which has washed ashore and volcanic rock formations.
albergo santa chiara city/region: rome accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: simple style: traditional cb!
part of a 25,000-acre nature reserve, this is a wonderful place for a family eco-adventure.
the beach is the highlight here for us with calm surf and warm water - we stay in the villas right on the beach so we are able to enjoy it as much as possible.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens a week at red horse  ranch was one of the best family vacations we've ever taken.
age rating: baby ready,  school age action, cool for teens every element of our experience at  paws up was phenomenal.
be sure to bring your warmest clothes!
great restaurants are within walking distance and there are also grocery stores nearby.
the concierge always helps us with fun  activities that we enjoy doing together for family time.
age rating: baby  ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens
it had trains, swings, slides etc and was close enough to watch from the apartment.
besides the beach, the resort has good open space for toddlers to run around and explore.
many onsite activities for kids.
the food is  delicious at both the steakhouse and the tavern, and we love the gorgeous  fire-pit and terrace.
the property also features tennis, a  marina, and an onsite dolphin adventure program.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens chaa  creek is located in a private nature reserve and offers cottages, suites and  tents.
rooms are comfortable and newly updated.
they also offer valet ski service which makes all-family skiing easy and efficient.
the friendly staff made us feel welcome and relaxed.
they call it glampingthe best of camping and a luxury hotel.
we were able to put our son to sleep easily every night and then relax in the  living room.
we had our own “butler” for the tent—by the end of the  week he was part of the family.
with the cribs they deliver items to child-proof the  room.
close proximity to town (10 minute drive, $15 cab ride) makes this resort seem remote and serene, while easily accessible to the restaurants, bars, and cafes of playa del carmen.
it’s truly the best of both worlds.
greenhorn creek  guest ranch city/region: quincy  accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready,  school age action, cool for teens luxury in every sense, from  super-comfy bedding to dark chocolates at turndown.
hotel location: mountains standard: luxurious style: contemporary cb!
the location and views from lone mountain ranch are amazing.
bathrooms  are roomy and nicely appointed.
our time with them couldn't have been better.
not only was the food delicious
connecting rooms and baby equipment are readily available, and they accommodate food requests for children.
age rating: toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens elua village is comprised of fully equipped condominiums.
the location is  excellent with just a 5-minute shuttle ride to the base of the ski area.
they have one of the best year-round outdoor pools with breathtaking views and scenery.
the hosts are very accommodating to families and go out of their  way to make stays enjoyable.
the resort has great pools for a variety of ages  including one for babies and a kid’s pool with slides.
the staff is young, friendly, and available to help you  bring up, store and take down your ski gear.
the outdoor swimming  pool is heated year-round and perfect for families.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action poggio etrusco was the highlight on our family's tuscany vacation.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens badrutt's palace has a wonderful indoor pool and fantastic mountain views.
the poolside bar is dedicated to marilyn monroe with great food and drink.
several restaurants to choose from although our  experience was that the lunch options were better than the dinner selections.
beautiful views of lake.
the rooms are well designed,  charming and spacious.
relaxing breakfast  served in the veranda in the gardens.
located in a picturesque part of the english countryside, the cottage overlooks beautiful farmland.
my son will remember his 10th birthday forever, thanks to the thoughtfulness of 2 of the employees at the vero beach hotel.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens an all studio, one, and two-bedroom condo hotel, guest  rooms are ideally suited for families with kitchens, comfortable beds, sofa  beds, washer/dryers, dishwashers, dvd players, and stainless steel gas grills  scattered throughout the resort.
although each condo is individually owned, décor and amenity quality is closely managed and consistent between units.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens centrally located near a-1 superhighway.
finca rosa blanca city/region: central valley  accommodation category: hotel location: countryside   standard:  luxurious   style: traditional cb!
the safe and secure environment makes it seem like youre at home where you can put the kids to bed with a monitor and head downstairs to relax.
most impressive of all, is the staff.
lone mountain ranch city/region: montana accommodation category: ranch location: mountains standard: upscale style:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the hyatt regency huntington beach resort & spa couldnt be in a better location.
hotel location:  countryside   standard: luxurious   style:
from the private tour the first evening with  tom to the special meals and great child friendly guides, we felt spoilt the  whole time!
park area with play equipment.
the catered cottage is an independent villa that comes with a private cook who prepares dinner, breakfast, and even cake for afternoon tea.
this location is not as  touristy as other areas and a 10-minute walk from the popular activities and  sights.
bocas del  toro  accommodation category: resort location:  seaside   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
although the property does not  have a kids’ club or other kid-centric amenities, the ideal guest room  set-up, warm service, and convenient location make it work well for families  that want a relaxing, boutique hotel experience.
there are many beach and pool areas to enjoy.
boutique cb! age rating: toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens this mountain view hotel has individually decorated, cozy rooms and suites,  some on two levels.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the fairmont orchid has many amenities for families including options for connecting rooms and full buffet breakfasts with children in mind, as well as casual and upscale dining options.
kid-friendly but not kid-centric, amenities for families include  a holiday period kids’ club, floaties for the pool, and best of all, staff  that goes out of their way to make every age feel pampered and comfortable.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens this property has great suites that are extremely  affordable with plenty of room for a toddler to run around plus a huge  bathroom, even by american standards and a private outside seating area.
the equinox is lovely!
the mini club is for children 4+ - kids can play all day and the parents get to explore.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens family-friendly for all ages - we did a grandparent-to-baby extended family trip.
the infinity  swimming pool is among the most stunning i've ever seen.
the service at this hotel is incredible and the staff went out of their way to help us in every respect.
the kids' program and amenities are outstanding and include an arcade, movie theater, and playground.
the service at this  hotel is incredible and the staff went out of their way to help us in every  respect.
seven stars city/region:
allen house city/region: london   accommodation category: apartment location: city    standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
the kids club is excellent with great  counselors.
theres a terrific indoor poolthe highlight for our kidsand a nice work out facility as well.
there are several restaurant choices for family dining.
age rating: toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens
ranch location: mountains   standard:  luxurious   style: boutique cb!
hotel location: countryside standard: upscale style: boutique cb!
the pool area is spectacular highlighted by  a water slide that is extremely popular with the kids.
guest rooms have kitchenette facilities and the location is central for regional exploration.
the staff is very friendly and there is an on-site travel company to help plan excursions.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun the boulders  is in a spectacular sonoran setting with gorgeous views.
onsite amenities are numerous including the river ranch area that is perfect for children and includes a swimming pool, hot tub, a toddler pool with a water spray play area, tree swings, bocce ball, basketball courts and lots of grass.
fairmont miramar  hotel and bungalows city/region: los angeles area  accommodation  category:
the pool and beach are well groomed and not very crowded.
chez o'neal city/region: lake tahoe accommodation category: villa location: mountains standard: luxurious style:
hotel location: mountains   standard:  simple   style: traditional cb!
over the winter months, theres a shuttle available to take guests the ski hill; were comfortable having our older boys use the shuttle on their own, so we arent constantly driving them around.
in other words, its the best of hotel services paired with condo amenities.
the wonderful buffet breakfast with chocolate croissants, crepes and  various treats was a highlight for my children and the service was impeccable.
the hotel is at the far end of  south beach on the beach so guests have access to a private part of the beach  and are away from the "action" of ocean drive, yet close enough to  enjoy the sights.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens a relais & chateaux property set in the dolomite mountains in the village of san cassiano.
the resort at paws up city/region: montana  accommodation  category:
the rooms are well-equipped and the service is friendly.
the rooms at byrnesgrove are spacious and nicely  appointed and the ensuite bathrooms are generously sized.
the beach and swimming pools are close to the condos.
the focus here is not kids - but  if you like the luxury of an adult only property where kids are welcome too,  this is the place.
there is also the possibility of fantastic home cooking with fresh ingredients grown on the property.
what distinguishes this property from  others is the number of onsite amenities for this category of accommodation -  guests have self-catering units with access to vast grass area plus a lovely  swimming pool, tennis courts, a bocce court, a basketball court, a spa, and a  state-of-the-art gym.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens hawks cay is an all  around great hotel option for kids of all ages.
age rating: baby  ready, school age action, cool for teens hotel londra palace is right  on the main canal in venice with unbelievable views of the water.
they didn’t earn the #1 spot for family programs (for  12th year!)
all condos are individually owned and furnished and have full kitchens and laundry, with one or two bedrooms.
starwood purchased the property and did a major  renovation—it is now more sophisticated and very pretty.
guest units are standalone with air-conditioning.
the hotel is in a very high traffic area for  tourists, but this is a fabulous location for access all of the main  attractions.
accommodations are  ranch-style and exceeded expectations.
families with kids of all ages are scattered throughout the property.
hyatt regency lake tahoe city/region: lake tahoe   accommodation category:
hotel location: mountains   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action beautifully restored working farm/vineyard with lovely rooms, pool, grounds to roam, dining room, lounge, outdoor patio.
vermont accommodation category: hotel location: mountains standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
the evening dinner was amazing and reasonable for the area.
the breakers city/region: florida  accommodation category: resort location: seaside   standard: luxurious   style:
on  capitol hill city/region: washington dc  accommodation category:
local activities and excursions include poas volcano, la paz waterfall, an animal estuary and the butterfly zoo.
although the property does not have a kids club or other kid-centric amenities, the ideal guest room set-up, warm service, and convenient location make it work well for families that want a relaxing, boutique hotel experience.
there is a saltwater protected  lagoon with over 4,000 tropical fish which was great for snorkeling without  surf.
hotel rufolo has a fantastic location in the center of the town yet still feels secluded.
the villa is  well-equipped with several indoor and outdoor activities for the children: pool  table, badminton, basketball, soccer/football field, swimming pool, and ping  pong.
age rating: baby ready,  school age action, cool for teens 400 year old palazzo on a small  canal within a 5-minute walk of san marco.
winvian is overall a magical place!
age rating: school age action, cool for teens
there is a toddler  play area and board games available.
an old chateau, the hotel is wonderfully restored, grand, and gorgeous.
the  bathroom was also configured to be very private so that nobody (kids or adults)  would wake the others when using it in the middle of the night.
le hameau des baux city/region: provence  accommodation category: resort location: countryside   standard: luxurious    style: boutique cb!
it is a commitment to navigate the single-lane, rural roads to get here - renvyle is about 90 minutes (by car) west of galway city, just outside clifden in connemara.
directly across from the expansive, beautiful beach - you simply walk  across the hotel's pedestrian bridge to cross the pacific coast highway.
the location is great across the street from the santa monica promenade (wonderful for taking a walk or run) and walking distance to santa monica shopping and restaurants.
the  property is small and intimate with a quiet feel and beautiful grounds.
with the resort just  steps from the sand, the location is very convenient for families.
byrnesgrove city/region: kilkenny accommodation category:
full room service is available, a nice convenience for jet-lagged families.
the location is central for overall city activities.
the hotel  staff is friendly and can reserve a space at one of the private beach clubs.
the upscale villa  has nice decor and comes fully staffed.
keiki program for children with option for day or evening activities (they explored local caves with petrogylphs and visited other resorts to see sharks, etc.).
inn at sugar bowl city/region: lake tahoe accommodation category:
this is a magical  place.
the contemporary suites and rooms are  beautifully done with top-notch beds, linens, and bath amenities.
every detail for kids has  been thought of here - from swim diapers at the pool to customized special  treats in the room; the result is parents are able to relax too and everyone  enjoys the gorgeous grounds and amenities.
traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens montestigliano is a typical turn-of-the-century italian property that retains its charm because of smart renovation.
tranquilo bay city/region:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun le hameau
the food here is fantastic - much of it is grown on the property.
costalegre accommodation category: hotel location: seaside standard: luxurious style:
with two restaurants, nice gardens, and a private beach club with secluded swimming area, this hotel has something to offer families with children of a variety of ages.
the resort has undergone a multi-million dollar makeover, and has many things to offer: three pools, a jacuzzi, a 27 hole golf course, 25 tennis courts, a spa with its own pool, children's camp, a water fantasy land called splashtopia - a neat aquatic playground including a lazy river, two 100 foot water slides, and a small sand beach.
meals are easy given the onsite gourmet grocery store with all kinds of organic goodies, plus there is a duke's restaurant onsite and room service is available.
it is one of those places where parents truly have the best of both worlds - a  romantic getaway and a family trip!
resort location: mountains standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
recently renovated, well-furnished apartments and a villa are spread across a sprawling olive oil estate.
located in northern umbria near the border with tuscany, this is a  great location for those that want to explore small, less touristy villages and  outdoor opportunities like hiking and biking are plentiful.
hotel location: city standard: upscale style:
lighthouse inn city/region: cape cod accommodation category:
the hotel  is a small luxury hotel with just 29 rooms on a beautiful beach.
onsite dining is fresh with plenty of food choices for everyone.
age rating casa craig city/region: lake  como  accommodation category: apartment location:  lake   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
there's also a great snack bar  and gift shop with delicious breakfasts.
the service is bar none, one of the best i've ever encountered.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun le piazzole  is part of an estate that produces olive oil and wine in the countryside just  outside of florence.
there is a well-stocked country store, several restaurants, an on-site shuttle service, and everything is self-contained at smuggs so you never have to go off property.
great family bike rentals to ride all along  shoreline and see the wharf and harbor.
the result is the community recommended portfolio - a reliable and invaluable resource for families everywhere!
we took the onsite family  cooking class with the executive chef and the pastry chef - my family learned  how to make homemade pasta as well as cupcakes.
our room was spacious  and beautifully decorated.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens there are a number of family-oriented activities for all ages at la costa including a beach pool with a waterpark and slides, as well as kidtopia and teenzone facilities with daycare for young kids and teens alike.
traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens this classic hotel on oahu's north shore has something for everyone in the family (especially for those who golf or surf).
the elms hotel & spa city/region: worcestershire accommodation category:
we stayed in one of the  cottages with two bedrooms and a living room.
the parents' bedroom not only felt like a spa  with its warm tones and plush linens, but it was set up in just the right way  with the sleeping area for the kids on a pull-out sofa in the living room.
the property is family-oriented  with a range of activities including onsite fishing ponds.
central valley accommodation category: hotel location: countryside standard: simple style: traditional cb!
ultra clean in all areas of the property.
we were able to put our son to sleep easily every night and then relax in the living room.
the  atmosphere is intimate and relaxing—a very different experience than  staying at a busy, mega-hotel.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age  action, cool for teens just steps from the beach, the catamaran resort  is in an excellent location for all ages.
cabanas have ceiling fans,  indoor plumbing and double beds on wooden frames with very comfortable  mattresses.
the local restaurants are great and the little beach just before onno is a nice place to picnic.
just a mile from yosemite national park, access to park attractions and a wide variety of outdoor adventures is easy.
there is also a zero entry pool that is a safe and fun way to enjoy the magnificent pool with small kids.
the area is not touristy and the  hotel arranged fabulous local tours - a chocolate farm, local tribes (they  loved our blond son!) and local beaches.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens this hotel is known as the 'castle in the rockies' and it lives up to that title.
the friendly and attentive staff is helpful and goes  out of their way to make guests feel welcome.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens borgo finocchieto is a magnificently renovated  800-year-old borgo - a village - located a few minutes from montalcino in  southern tuscany.
we  had an incredible experience here.
or, you can opt for a cabin with small kitchen and plenty of sleeping options.
there is special attention paid to families  with a kid's welcome gift and the staff always seemed to have pockets stocked  with chocolate.
a well-appointed kids' activities room has something for all ages to play with and is paired with a seasonal activity program.
the property is new so everything feels fresh including modern kitchens and bathrooms.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens conveniently located within 20 minutes of all the major attractions (san diego zoo, seaworld, legoland, la jolla, del mar, gaslamp district, etc), homewood suites makes an excellent home-base for enjoying the many things to do in san diego.
albergo santa chiara is a perfect value option for rome and we've referred many friends and family over the years.
the vast space between each apartment complex  means guests have the best of independent living with a handful of shared  amenities.
it is comprised of multiple condominium communities with many  amenities.
traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, toddler fun a cozy villa in one of the most beautiful spots in tuscany near the border with umbria.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens los suenos is situated in a gorgeous area where everything is at your fingertips.
in contrast to the adult-oriented scene of other seaside resort areas in florida, the atmosphere of marco island is very family-friendly.
select a destination - belize- canada- caribbean- costa rica-
other spa treatments are extra, such as couples mud  treatments, a dead sea grotto, massage, facials, etc.
alsagra city/region: umbria accommodation category:
although there is no onsite restaurant, groceries and restaurants are plentiful in this area.
one highlight for me about this location with kids is that  you don't have to deal with all the adult-focused venues of the strip.
ixtapa accommodation category: hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style:
castello di vicarello city/region:
hotel location: countryside standard: simple style:
rocky  mountains  accommodation category: hotel location:  mountains   standard: luxurious   style:
after dinner, families can gather around the fire pits for smores.
there is a long list of activities for  families that want to be busy or you can just chill out.
the vast space between each apartment complex means guests have the best of independent living with a handful of shared amenities.
our unit had character, was comfortable, and felt like home - this is exactly the kind of hotel experience we wanted with a toddler.
hotel location: mountains   standard: simple   style:
accommodations are comprised of rooms, suites and villas all set on a working coffee planation.
the ciao bambino community is comprised of parents that travel with children who appreciate high-quality accommodations and understand the features that make a property family-friendly.
lots of little houses, so extended  families can all have their own space - everything is really close by.
dining opportunities are numerous and delicious.
a big part of the appeal is that it feels like home
the resort has many  onsite activities including horseback riding (even in the water), water sports,  tennis, exercise room, golf and a fabulous new spa.
overall, the atmosphere is quiet rather than busy and  resorty, but it is kid-friendly and relaxing.
luxurious large rooms with breakfast included.
monterey  peninsula  accommodation category: resort location:  countryside   standard: upscale   style:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens loews offers a variety of unique programs and services for children; including lending libraries of games, special children's menus which include healthy options, tours, fisher-price welcome gifts, and supervised recreational programs.
the accommodations  were not fancy, rather they were true to the spirit of the west!
hotel location: mountains standard: simple style: traditional cb!
the courtyard pool is great for kids.
if you would like more room, beachfront cottages and nicely-appointed villas are also available.
the olive house city/region: paros accommodation category: villa location: seaside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
the friendly and attentive staff is helpful and goes out of their way to make guests feel welcome.
with a tree house to play in, woods to explore, animals to feed and fishing on premise, you can truly relax here and forget about the winding irish roads for a few days.
we were never bothered by noise.
lone mountain ranch city/region:  montana  accommodation category: ranch location:  mountains   standard: upscale   style:
montelago village resort city/region: las vegas accommodation category: resort location: lake standard: upscale style:
the restaurant  went out of their way to offer unique, kid-friendly foods.
the indoor hotel pool is sun-filled and perfect for adults and kids  alike.
common areas and especially the dining room are beautiful and scenic and the food is superb although pricey.
the expansive grounds are beautiful with a trampoline, ping pong, and loads of room for running around.
age rating: school age  action, cool for teens
the property is in a good location - a short  walk to the ferry stop in tremezzo and local restaurants.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens beautifully maintained self-catering apartments with plenty of extras thrown in.
the kids program is  wonderful with friendly and caring staff; you feel like your kids are safe  there and the communication with parents is excellent.
there is a great little kids pool for babies and toddlers.
if you plan to spend a few days in dublin and you're looking for spacious, family-friendly accommodations that are centrally located with easy and convenient access to local transportation and right in the center of the city, you really can't find a better option than the premier suites.
meanwhile, the experience with children is remarkable.
each villa has been thoroughly renovated and decorated with care.
the historic lodge is casual and comfortablekids of all ages are everywhere.
the setting is  gorgeous with scrub oak-covered hills—even without the animals it is a  fantastic place.
guest rooms are simply decorated but comfortable.
equinox resort city/region: vermont accommodation category:
meanwhile, adults can enjoy a casino and great dining options, an  incredible spa, and workout facilities.
each room is unique, we stayed in a 2 bedroom suite that was so  comfortable.
service is top notch and for parents that want pampering, the spa is great too.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we love the beautiful  setting of this hotel in the adirondack mountains and the location is wonderful  - just a 2-minute walk from the town of lake placid and a 10-minute drive to  the ski area.
you are also allowed to climb some of the ruins  which was great for all.
despite its corporate roots, this property has adapted to accommodate the traveling family.
there is a terrific pool area with a pirate ship and slide that is perfect young kids and a flexible kids program where there is always some kind of activity happening like painting and games.
saunton sands hotel city/region: devon  accommodation category:
we loved the intimate and luxurious atmosphere, and the food was fantastic!
badrutt's palace city/region: st. moritz accommodation category:
rooms are simple, comfortable, and spacious and a good value for this area.
gorgeous views, fantastic local food and drink, wonderful hosts and lots of interesting activities in close proximity.
resort location: countryside   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
there is special attention paid to families with a kid's welcome gift and the staff always seemed to have pockets stocked with chocolate.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens koloa landing is comprised of extremely high quality one to four bedroom condo units in a resort setting.
it had trains, swings, slides  etc and was close enough to watch from the apartment.
despite its corporate roots, this property has  adapted to accommodate the traveling family.
it is a commitment to navigate the  single-lane, rural roads to get here - renvyle is about 90 minutes (by car)
the area has  both wonderful, easy hiking appropriate for preschool age children and above as  well as excellent day hikes available for adults.
10 rooms with a large suite able to accommodate  a family of five, and a room with 4 twin beds as well.
the gym is absolutely top notch too, with  excellent machines and yoga.
the embassy  hotel apartments city/region: los angeles area  accommodation  category:
omni mount washington resort city/region: new  hampshire  accommodation category:
we stayed in "the pig sty" a converted pig sty which is now a luxe and gorgeous family suite.
hotel location: mountains   standard: upscale   style:
you will find skiing, snowboarding, cross country skiing, tubing, fishing, hiking, biking, dog carting, and more.
the beach itself is in a calm lagoon, perfect for kids of all ages.
the property feels completely safe as it is gated and access is only given to guests and staff.
our apartment was well-appointed and we loved the  rustic-yet-luxurious character and charm of the decor.
junior suites are the perfect configuration for families with separate rooms.
the views are spectacular and the gardens feel distinctly mediterranean  with lemon trees and views of the sea.
the resort is located within just a few minutes drive to old san juan and  boasts many family-friendly amenities.
hotel location: seaside standard: luxurious style: traditional cb!
the concept of getting away and having meals cooked for you in a private home is brilliant.
a three minute walk to the ferry, easy access to the charming marin towns  and a day or so of tiburon-centric explorations win points for the lodge.
poggio al casone city/region:
montestigliano city/region: tuscany  accommodation  category:
hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style: boutique cb!
full of antiques, the interior is like stepping back in time and the atmosphere is inviting and comfortable.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens located directly on the beach in st. james, barbados, sandy lane is a true vacation for the entire family.
the views from the property are  magnificent.
our community review enables parents to share information about the best family-approved accommodations using the ciao bambino approach.
our family enjoyed short walks and hikes though property grounds and paths.
our condo  had direct access to the big lagoon pool, was a short walk to beach and had a  plunge pool on the patio.
kid's club for meals with activities so parents can eat in on-site restaurant.
they are perfect for families with  young children prioritizing convenience.
hotel rufolo city/region: amalfi coast accommodation category:
resort location:  seaside   standard: upscale   style: contemporary cb!
hotel belvedere city/region:
theres a private garden with a pool, exclusive for the villa.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens my kids were so psyched to hang out a the gorgeous beach at the hotel del coronado.
almyra hotel city/region:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens located directly on the beach in st. james, barbados,  sandy lane is a true vacation for the entire family.
there are a myriad of land and water sports available in this area and the drivers will take you wherever you need to go.
castle kiahuna plantation & the beach bungalows city/region: kauai accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
located just a 2-minute walk from  town, you don’t feel like you are on top of everything yet there is easy  access to restaurants and shopping.
fairmont banff springs city/region: banff  accommodation category:
located south of market, this is an easy walk to adult play (restaurants, bars and shopping) as well as kid play (metreon, carousel, gardens).
the sunny southeast poipu location is excellent with easy access to shops and restaurants.
we have traveled to this hotel several times and  the kids look forward to it just as much as us.
the experience at chateau de saint paterne is amazingly kid-friendly.
some rooms overlook the grand canal ask for a room with that view, it's worth it!
this is one of those special places where it is easy for adults to enjoy themselves while kids are having a blast.
my favorite feature for families is the  miramar beach club with chairs, butler service, and sports rentals—the  club is only available to hotel guests.
there is a great play area at the apartment which our toddler used during our stay.
public areas are family-oriented, warm, and inviting and the  decks facing the lake have fantastic views.
the highlight of this property  for families is the fantastic outdoor areas for kids, including a large garden  and heated swimming pool.
there is a great play area at the  apartment which our toddler used during our stay.
chateau de ribagnac city/region: limousin  accommodation category:  hotel location: countryside   standard:  upscale   style: boutique cb!
finca rosa blanca city/region: central valley accommodation category: hotel location: countryside standard: luxurious style: traditional cb!
if you ask us which hotel we would go to whenever we had the chance, it would be the breakers.
they are helpful, friendly, attentive and genuinely interested in making your stay a memorable one.
florence accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
the hotel de la minerve is located  in a tiny piazza just around the corner from the pantheon in an area of rome  that is perfect for families.
rooms are well-appointed and luxurious.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens small,  family-run hotel in the castello area of venice.
hyatt regency  huntington beach resort & spa city/region: los angeles area   accommodation category: hotel location: seaside    standard: upscale   style:
kitchens are well-equipped and if there is anything you  need the owners will get it for you.
hotel al piave city/region:  venice/veneto  accommodation category: hotel location:  city   standard: simple   style: traditional cb!
kid-focused activities here are great and  include a game room and extensive kids' night out program.
the restaurant is laid-back and has indoor and outdoor sections so kids can easily come and go.
esencia city/region: yucatan peninsula accommodation category: hotel location: seaside standard: luxurious style: boutique cb!
parents will appreciate the on-site spa and fitness center, as well as the  onsite restaurants where kids under 5 eat free.
but they included lovely table decorations to make our thanksgiving very elegant in an outdoor setting.
rooms have wifi and there is a computer in lobby with internet access.
golf carts and boat rides make for easy transport throughout  this rather large resort.
tuscany accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: luxurious style: boutique cb!
my kids enjoyed the heidi house - a supervised play  area with activities and movies.
it's a  secure building, located less than one block from kensington street and 1 1/2  blocks from the kensington high street tube station and the super easy double  decker bus system.
there's a small gym on site.
hotel location: city   standard:  simple   style: trendy cb!
this is a beautiful house, well designed, open, airy and light.
the hotel is very hip and our kids love the amenities including  free hot chocolate throughout the day.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens stowe mountain lodge is located within stowe mountain resort at the base of mount mansfield.
the views and smells at this property are calming and beautiful with gorgeous gardens and a relaxing pool.
the owners are enthusiastic about hosting  families and have put together local itineraries just for kids (from chocolate  factory visits to guided hiking).
the restaurant  is laid-back and has indoor and outdoor sections so kids can easily come and go.
park hyatt beaver creek city/region:
hotel del  coronado city/region: san diego  accommodation category: hotel location: city   standard: luxurious    style: traditional cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens located in the heart of the village at mammoth, the condo guest rooms rooms at the village lodge provide the space and amenities families need, with convenient access to everything including the gondola.
this property offers the perfect combination of villa amenities paired with resort services.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens convenient home-base for exploring this part of the italian riviera.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens this hotel is known as the 'castle in the rockies' and  it lives up to that title.
hotel location: countryside standard: luxurious style:
our family apartment (no kitchen) was simple but spacious and  comfortable.
the caribbean beaches with warm blue waters  are calm enough to be able to lie on a float and relax.
they have rooms that connect for families -  this was important to us.
panama- spain- switzerland-
the  location is ideal for a weekend getaways as it is just over an hour from the  geneva airport and 30 minutes from chamonix.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens located on kaanapali  beach and whalers village, kaanapali alii has spacious condos with beautiful  ocean and mountain views.
the park hyatt beaver creek is in an incredible  location with ideal access to the chair lifts, ski school, restaurants, and  shopping.
there is a beachfront area with new pools for  families, as well as adult-only options.
the accommodations are quiet, independent cabanas and villas.
age rating news contact us hotel reviews ciao bambino!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun the catered  cottage is an independent villa that comes with a private cook who prepares  dinner, breakfast, and even cake for afternoon tea.
the bathrooms are large enough to put the crib inside affording grown-ups privacy.
cuisinart resort and spa city/region: anguilla accommodation category: hotel location: seaside standard: luxurious style:
each villa has been thoroughly  renovated and decorated with care.
over the winter months, there’s a shuttle available to  take guests the ski hill; we’re comfortable having our older boys use the  shuttle on their own, so we aren’t constantly driving them around.
the atmosphere is casual yet classy and the location provides easy access to the ski resort.
fess parker's  doubletree resort city/region: santa barbara  accommodation  category:
located slightly off the beaten path but still centrally located on a quite side street.
there are plenty of interesting activities in the nearby area too.
children are welcome and there  are many activities offered to them, but it is all very low-key.
excellent dining room.
rooms vary in size and have modern decor and amenities.
parent ready: common bbq for dads (or moms) to grill  each night while families watch the sun set together.
the interior is new, but the property retains an old-school farmhouse feel.
featuring a wide range of activities for all ages  including a kids’ club and a nearby zip-line, the property is very  family-friendly with year-round things to do.
keiki program for children with option for day or  evening activities (they explored local caves with petrogylphs and visited  other resorts to see sharks, etc.).
age rating:  baby ready, school age action, cool for teens we had a phenomenal stay  at the trump hotel in chicago.
small things like video rentals, the weekend bbqs and daily pool  breakfast/afternoon cookies make the place seem fun - for all kinds of kids.
we all loved our experience as there is something to do for every age group.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens family-friendly for all  ages - we did a grandparent-to-baby extended family trip.
renvyle  house hotel city/region: connemara  accommodation category:
the coolest, trendiest rooms  in nyc - they are small but functional and many have bunk-beds with personal  flat-screen tvs.
everything is organized around a central plaza with many entertainment options for all ages including horseshoes, ping pong, and an outdoor fire pit.
the food was phenomenal.
garden had a bbq and
we didn't have a car for our trip, but we still took many fun day trips from this area.
vermont   accommodation category: hotel location:  mountains   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
all were blissfully happy.
the apartment was very comfortable, clean,  spacious, and accommodating for our family.
macarthur place city/region: napa valley  accommodation category:  hotel location: countryside   standard:  upscale   style: boutique cb!
guest rooms have kitchenette  facilities and the location is central for regional exploration.
the beach is the highlight here for us with calm surf and warm water - we stay  in the villas right on the beach so we are able to enjoy it as much as  possible.
i’ve traveled all around the world and our week at paws up will  remain one of my most treasured memories!
, you come upon a herd of sheep, so animated and friendly, grazing on breathtakingly beautiful grounds.
the location is ideal for a weekend getaways as it is just over an hour from the geneva airport and 30 minutes from chamonix.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun the boulders is in a spectacular sonoran setting with gorgeous views.
multiple aquariums are a constant  source of entertainment.
good onsite restaurant, but have to  go early (like 4:45) to avoid a long wait, which is not fun with kids--at least  not ours!
if you want a special family getaway bluefields bay is it you really can't put a price on this kind of relaxation.
bahamas accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style: contemporary cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun le piazzole is part of an estate that produces olive oil and wine in the countryside just outside of florence.
the details here are handled with care and everything runs smoothly, this is why the same families love to come back year after year.
the 1-3 bedroom suites are ideal for multi-generational trips with kids as they are spacious with room for everyone to spread out.
borgo finocchieto city/region:  tuscany  accommodation category:
gorgeous views,  fantastic local food and drink, wonderful hosts and lots of interesting  activities in close proximity.
les fermes des marie city/region: megève accommodation category: hotel location: mountains standard: luxurious style: boutique cb!
lamanai offers small  cabanas with thatched roofs in a jungle setting.
the all-suite resort is beautifully appointed with renovated  kitchens, marble bathrooms, and luxury linens.
there are wonderful services and activities including horseback riding, canoeing, a butterfly farm, day trips to ruins, miles of trails for hiking and birding and a swimming pool.
glorious tuscan herbal saunas are included in the room price.
grand hotel tremezzo palace city/region: lake como accommodation category:
honua kai resort and spa city/region: hawaii   accommodation category: hotel location: seaside    standard: upscale   style: boutique cb!
interior room are spacious and comfortable.
there is a toddler play area and board games available.
this  is a wonderful resort option for an active family.
the  pool offers great play and people watching during the summertime.
sandy lane city/region:
hotel location: mountains standard: luxurious style:
meals are easy given the onsite gourmet grocery store with all kinds of  organic goodies, plus there is a duke's restaurant onsite and room service is  available.
amazing staff, very attentive.
el capitan is a delightful  family alternative to the fancier resorts of santa barbara and a great outdoor  experience.
the proximity to the mountain is second to none: you walk out the door of the hotel and you are steps from the gondola and lifts.
marriott desert springs villas city/region: palm springs accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: upscale style:
pitcher inn city/region: vermont  accommodation category:
the property has a laid back western ranch atmosphere - not too  extravagant - but not too simple either, a nice balance for those that want a  bit of everything.
fairmont miramar hotel and bungalows city/region: los angeles area accommodation category:
resort location:  countryside   standard: upscale   style:
oceana santa monica city/region: los angeles area accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action we loved the "floating" swimming pool in lake como and beach.
poggio etrusco city/region:
the highlight for them was the extensive and creative activities for kids of all ages including unique and cultural programs like hula dancing and mask making.
cuixmala city/region:
the owner provides toys, games, dvds, and a fabulous activity folder for kids.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens what separates this resort from other properties is the exceptional level of serviceweve stayed all over the world yet we were blown away by the gracious staff at the rosewood mayakoba.
el capitan canyon city/region: santa barbara  accommodation category:
fabulous housekeeping service in every condo means parents get a break too.
fantastic place for multiple families.
bosque del cabo city/region: osa peninsula accommodation category:
macarthur place city/region: napa valley accommodation category: hotel location: countryside standard: upscale style: boutique cb!
this location excellent for  regional sightseeing - pisa, florence, lucca, and cinque terre are all within  reach.
london accommodation category: apartment location: city standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
age rating: baby  ready, school age action, cool for teens looking across the bay with  sweeping views of both santa margherita ligure and portofino, hotel continental  offers classic italian riviera luxury in a family-friendly setting just a short  walk to the main square.
with amazing views and incredible wildlife, the casual but luxurious accommodations are perfect for families.
hotel flora city/region: venice/veneto   accommodation category: hotel location: city    standard: upscale   style: old world cb!
there is a large white sand beach the all inclusive buffet makes it easy to feed kids and adults with many choices.
there is a  private beach (accessed by a hotel shuttle) and fantastic swimming pools.
this location is not as touristy as other areas and a 10-minute walk from the popular activities and sights.
kids under 5 ski free at on the magic carpet at the resort and the ski  school is terrific.
chaa creek city/region: san ignacio accommodation category: resort location: mountains standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens convenient home-base for exploring this part of the  italian riviera.
the resort is located within just a few minutes drive to old san juan and boasts many family-friendly amenities.
resort location:  countryside   standard: luxurious   style:
the crew at mystic river did everything possible to  make our children feel welcome.
hotel rufolo city/region: amalfi coast   accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the clay brook is brand new, so everything is very clean and well done.
this family-focused  mega-resort has endless onsite activities for kids such as water park, water  slides, and a dolphin experience.
hotel location: seaside    standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
panama europe cyprus denmark england france germany greece ireland italy netherlands spain switzerland south pacific fiji new zealand about hotel reviews ciao bambino!
overall, there is a cozy, family atmosphere due to the very helpful owners that make guests feel like they are at home.
fairmont le chateau frontenac city/region: quebec city accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action located in the iconic and historic village of bellagio, guests appreciate the wonderful lake and mountain views from hotel belvedere.
there are many family  activities nearby and the hotel offers a free shuttle into lahaina.
the result is  the community recommended portfolio - a reliable and invaluable resource for  families everywhere!
the atmosphere is warm  and inviting, with large enough rooms for families to be comfortable.
the lodge at tiburon city/region:  san francisco bay area  accommodation category: hotel location: city   standard: upscale   style:
beach toys are provided on arrival and the restaurant is clearly experienced in hosting families.
there are multiple restaurants onsite,  in addition to other good options in the area.
kids-like pool on property.
just off the main  street housing all the high-end stores.
summer favorites include fly fishing, hiking,  and horseback riding—winter favorites are cross-country and alpine skiing.
this location is ideal for families who want to easily access florence and the  surrounding area, including chianti and siena.
the affinia chicago is a stylish, boutique hotel that is very kid-friendly too.
the church bells were loud at night - but that was part of the venice experience.
hotel location:  countryside   standard: simple   style:
fairmont le chateau frontenac city/region: quebec city   accommodation category:
there is a private beach (accessed by a hotel shuttle) and fantastic swimming pools.
the gant aspen city/region: rocky mountains accommodation category:
the property is quiet on a small side street - a bit hard to find the first time you look for it, but otherwise this hotel is a great value for venice.
close proximity to town (10 minute drive, $15 cab ride) makes this resort seem  remote and serene, while easily accessible to the restaurants, bars, and cafes  of playa del carmen.
the stark scenery is breathtaking and the destination truly worth the effort.
easy  rollaway/crib availability—if needed, it is worth requesting a bathroom  that is large enough for the crib.
the location is fantastic, right around the corner from piazza san marco.
the beach is gorgeous  with calm, swimmable surf.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens looking across the bay with sweeping views of both santa margherita ligure and portofino, hotel continental offers classic italian riviera luxury in a family-friendly setting just a short walk to the main square.
the service and staff were marvelous.
the service and staff  were marvelous.
hotel location: seaside    standard: luxurious   style: traditional cb!
suites are spacious and many rooms have nice water views.
red horse mountain  ranch city/region: rocky mountains  accommodation category: ranch location: mountains   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
water is  turquoise/blue.
much of the food served at the restaurant is from the hotel's own  hydroponic farm and it is amazing and kid-friendly.
we  had a fantastic time!
it is also in a convenient location to explore key west and other fun  florida keys attractions.
apartment location: countryside standard: simple style:
located slightly off the beaten path but still centrally  located on a quite side street.
guest  accommodations are rustic but comfortable with kitchens and all you need.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens convenient location in  palm desert.
tuscany   accommodation category: hotel location: seaside    standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
the concierge service is unbelievable—the staff will manage  anything and everything you need.
the giraffes are  incredible and there are some fascinating animals that i’ve never seen  before.
many of their guests return year-after-year and there are always kids of all ages around.
convenient and reasonably priced - this hotel has thought of everything and is a great option for families with tweens and teens.
casa zorzi city/region: venice/veneto accommodation category: apartment location: countryside standard: simple style: traditional cb!
the almyra is a fantastic place to truly relax and enjoy a beautiful setting.
this resort is a wonderful place for families who love the great outdoors.
rooms are themed with many creative options including a treehouse perched 30 feet off the ground.
age rating: baby ready,  school age action, cool for teens tanque verde is a resort-style guest  ranch.
not much to do on the immediate island outside of kayaking, fishing, and snorkeling.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the lodge at tiburon makes san francisco area marin-based adventures  easy.
greenhorn creek guest ranch city/region: quincy accommodation category: ranch location: mountains standard: simple style: traditional cb!
the hotel overlooks the ice skating rink in town and we can walk out  our door to a million activities.
a lovely spa featuring their exclusive mountain plant-derived product line is paired with a kid-friendly indoor pool.
the best part for the kids was that their daughter, alaia, who welcomed them into her play, and shared great italian snacks with them.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens stowe mountain lodge is located within stowe mountain  resort at the base of mount mansfield.
the pool service is great and  we also appreciated the close proximity to a grocery store with organic produce  and other nice items.
the food here is fantastic - much of it is grown on the  property.
the single only drawback was that we were all in one large single room, but honestly, we were so exhausted most nights, going to bed with the kids was easy.
rooms are well-appointed and  luxurious.
with the resort just steps from the sand, the location is very convenient for families.
all villa units have private dining terraces and spacious outdoor living areas.
breakfast is plentiful and delicious.
the grounds are beautiful and fun for toddlers to run around.
a nice place for family strolls with a carousel that provides some  entertainment.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens
masia bessones city/region: costa  brava  accommodation category: villa location:  countryside   standard: upscale   style:
there is something for everyone: parents are able to get a vacation with and without their kids.
after dinner, families can gather around the fire pits for  s’mores.
lake como accommodation category: hotel location: lake standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
recently renovated family cabins are comfortable and ideally configured with pocket doors you can close for separation and privacy.
the property is quiet and relaxing and all units have kitchenette/kitchen facilities.
overall, there is a  cozy, family atmosphere due to the very helpful owners that make guests feel  like they are at home.
golf facilities are first rate and feature  a natural grass driving range.
the staff is  wonderful and offers great local excursion advice and guided activities.
private meals can be arranged in the main house or guest rooms - my son is  still talking about how much he loved his meal cooked by luigi, the in-house  chef.
the giraffes are incredible and there are some fascinating animals that ive never seen before.
the lush garden is wonderful, and there is even a bit of  green grass for kids to run around.
the raleigh hotel city/region: florida accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style: boutique cb!
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens squaw valley lodge's  location and simplicity are hard to beat.
the pool  entertains most kids through the early evening.
the embassy hotel apartments city/region: los angeles area accommodation category:
not only  was the food delicious
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, cool for teens ravello is a quaint town with lots of local children.
its obvious that the owner put a great deal of work into the refurbishment of the property every room is decorated with a focus on quality.
the location of the hotel is very central  with access to idyllic villages as well as the beach.
age rating: baby  ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the hyatt  regency huntington beach resort & spa couldn’t be in a better  location.
piazza barberini is a 15-minute walk to the spanish steps and via del corso and a 1-minute walk to the subway and bus stop.
as you plan your stay, with a quick call, a smuggs vacation specialist will guide you through the myriad of activities so you dont miss anything during your stay.
besides the beach, the resort has good open space for toddlers to run around  and explore.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool  for teens badrutt's palace has a wonderful indoor pool and fantastic  mountain views.
the overall  ambiance is intimate versus a larger-property resort feel.
age rating:  baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens our girls  are still asking when they can go back to hualalai and tell us that this trip  to hawaii was the best vacation they've every had.
there are  wonderful services and activities including horseback riding, canoeing, a  butterfly farm, day trips to ruins, miles of trails for hiking and birding and  a swimming pool.
hosts jim and laura kenny go to great lengths to ensure that each guest enjoys an authentic farm experience, complete with hearty breakfasts and fresh baked treats, as well as interaction with their managerie of animals and livestock.
club med ixtapa city/region:
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens residence barberini is comprised of spacious apartment-style rooms in an extremely convenient location.
pafos accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style: trendy cb!
hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style: trendy cb!
packages available for purchase for use of water equipment for use during entire stay.
accommodation options include 4-7 bedroom villas that come fully staffed with a housekeeper, cook and butler and hotel rooms in apartment-style buildings, many with oceanfront terraces.
four seasons resort hualalai city/region: hawaii   accommodation category: resort location: seaside    standard: luxurious   style: contemporary cb!
resort location: countryside standard: upscale style:
age rating: baby  ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the roberts  grove is one of those properties that is kid-friendly, but caters to grown-ups  too.
there is a mix of apartments and larger villa-type units here noting that the property is ideally configured for groups that can take over the borgo and staff, consequently, there may be many weeks during the year when the property is unavailable for individual families.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action renvyle is in a truly stunning location on a peninsula on the west coast of ireland.
10 rooms with a large suite able to accommodate a family of five, and a room with 4 twin beds as well.
this is a wonderful resort option for an active family.
the location is close to tuscon, but the property borders on  public land so it feels secluded.
homewood suites san diego-del mar city/region: san diego  accommodation category: hotel location: city   standard: simple   style:
hotel is in the town of camogli - a picturesque fishing  village.
in the winter, there are shuttles to local snow ski resorts which  ski school starting at age 4.
it’s  easy to go between the pool and beach.
the coolest, trendiest rooms in nyc - they are small but functional and many have bunk-beds with personal flat-screen tvs.
our children love the  old-fashioned hotel atmosphere with a huge lounge where they can play games in  front of the fire.
the hotel is beautifully situated overlooking the lower village and the st. lawrence river.
there is a terrific pool area with a pirate ship  and slide that is perfect young kids and a flexible kids program where there is  always some kind of activity happening like painting and games.
resort location:  seaside   standard: upscale   style: boutique cb!
the excellent  service at this hotel extends to the restaurant with stunning lake, river, and  downtown views from the floor-to-ceiling windows.
waldhaus sils city/region: st. moritz  accommodation category:
highlights included nature hikes and cave visits.
villa location: countryside   standard: simple    style: traditional cb!
we stayed in one of the cottages with two bedrooms and a living room.
traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action this seaside resort overlooks one of the best beaches in the uk.
we stayed in the  penthouse suite and loved our private rooftop terrace.
part of a  25,000-acre nature reserve, this is a wonderful place for a family  eco-adventure.
children's sand wading pool.
age rating: baby  ready, school age action, cool for teens murano glass light fixtures  and antique furniture added charm to this family-owned hotel.
arthur's pass wilderness lodge city/region: arthur's pass accommodation category: hotel location: mountains standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
it's also a doable walk to  market street to pick up a cable car and to the embarcadero to check out the  ferry building.
we met fabulous people from all over the world and will  surely return to red horse mountain next summer.
we like the 2-bedroom units  with kitchens and hammocks for families; located close to the beach, they have  roof-top hot tubs and wonderful views.
tenuta di spannocchia city/region: tuscany  accommodation category: resort location: countryside   standard: simple   style:
there is plenty to do in  this part of normandy for families.
the rooms are spacious and recently updated, and many have large balconies with a classic view over the city's rooftops.
the staff is great with kids and very accommodating.
if you plan to spend a few days in dublin and  you're looking for spacious, family-friendly accommodations that are centrally  located with easy and convenient access to local transportation and right in  the center of the city, you really can't find a better option than the premier  suites.
the experience at chateau de saint paterne is amazingly  kid-friendly.
ammos hotel city/region: crete accommodation category:
they even have boot warmers available—talk about luxury!
age rating: baby  ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the fairmont  orchid has many amenities for families including options for connecting rooms  and full buffet breakfasts with children in mind, as well as casual and upscale  dining options.
the staff is accommodating and focused  on making sure kids feel welcome and have fun at the property.
the location  is great for regional exploration and when a break from sightseeing is needed  the pool is idyllic and perfect for kids.
although it is very close to st. mark's square, the hotel is very quiet.
this amenity provides a comfortable way to enjoy the gorgeous santa monica beach.
there is also a kid's  club on premise.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun beautiful  condo-hotel away from frenzy of the strip.
white elephant city/region:  nantucket  accommodation category:
beach is clean and well-maintained.
we love that the village is always lively  with jazz and music festivals in the summer and s’mores by the fire in  winter.
we  spent 4 nights there recently with our three school-aged children who range  between 9 and 14 years.
this is a magical place.
vermont accommodation category: hotel location: mountains standard: luxurious style:
the calm, swimmable cove is a magical place to relax, plus there are plenty of activity options for those that want to explore the estates natural wonders on land (hiking, biking, horseback riding) or sea (sailing, kayaking, snorkeling).
hyatt regency washington on capitol hill city/region: washington dc accommodation category:
the hotel staff knows who we  are every time we come back and we are completely comfortable leaving the kids  on their own when they want to be.
the tents are authentic, yet warm and comfortable.
vermont accommodation category: resort location: mountains standard: luxurious style:
that village has wonderful adventure sports like dog-sledding, cross country skiing, and snowmobiling.
the hotel staff knows who we are every time we come back and we are completely comfortable leaving the kids on their own when they want to be.
hotel location: city standard: upscale style: contemporary cb!
badrutt's palace city/region: st. moritz  accommodation category: hotel location: mountains   standard: upscale   style:  old world cb!
turks and caicos accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style:
epic skiing and hiking is plentiful in this area.
there’s  an arcade, on-site surfing lessons and bike rentals, large workout facility and  spa for adult relaxation.
all  were blissfully happy.
with the cribs they deliver items to child-proof the room.
the hotel has daily kids activities, offers surging lessons, and rents a variety of bikes including cruisers, tandems, and surreys.
hotel location: seaside   standard: luxurious    style: traditional cb!
johnny and pamela are great local guides for sites and  great food.
young kids will  appreciate the small beach and playground nearby, and since the hotel is just  steps from town, teens can enjoy a bit of independence.
my favorite feature for families is the miramar beach club with chairs, butler service, and
the cottage is a wonderful escape.
there are a few onsite restaurants to choose from including formal and casual options; the meals are outstanding.
located in the heart of tuscany with easy access to everything from cities to parks to castles.
the property has extremely  comfortable rooms and the spa services are outstanding.
there are a million activities to choose from through every season in this  area.
although this is a luxury, old-world property, there are many  fantastic onsite amenities for children including a cooking school (8-12 years  old), painting lessons, football/soccer lessons with private coach, heated  open-air swimming pool, huge gardens, and children's menu.
almyra hotel city/region: pafos  accommodation category: resort location: seaside   standard: upscale   style:  trendy cb!
megève is filled with appealing restaurants and shops; it's a 5-minute walk from the hotel or you can opt for the hotel's free shuttle.
age rating:  baby ready, cool for teens hotel santa caterina has a stunning  location in amalfi with cliff top gardens, a pool at the sea’s edge and a  beach.
breakfast on the terrace overlooking villa rufolo and the mediterranean sea is not to be missed.
from the private tour the first evening with tom to the special meals and great child friendly guides, we felt spoilt the whole time!
we stayed during thanksgiving when they offered to cater our holiday meal and deliver it to our cabin.
glendine country house city/region: wexford   accommodation category: hotel location:  countryside   standard: upscale   style:
this luxurious hotel has beautiful rooms and ocean views.
this is a huge property so there is room for kids to run around outside, as well as a kids play area and animals that they can feed.
you can be active all day or just lounge by  the pool or beach.
the hotel is pristine and inviting as soon as you enter the lobby.
half moon, a rock resort city/region: jamaica accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: luxurious style: traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens half moon is a large 400 acre plantation style property that surprisingly feels intimate.
topnotch resort and spa city/region:
my boys loved the huge bathtub and could practically swim laps  in it.
palazzo  schiavoni city/region: venice/veneto  accommodation category:  hotel location: city   standard:  upscale   style: old world cb!
villa guests  can use the round hill facilities which include a kids club.
the position of the hotel is particularly  appealing because it is in a relatively quiet, calm area given its central  location.
safari west city/region: napa valley  accommodation category:  resort location: countryside   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
some community recommended properties have also been evaluated by ciao bambino and meet our strict quality standards - these properties are identified by the cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens after driving up a long and winding dirt road, just as you and your  family starts to get a bit cranky
age rating: school age action ceiba del mar is a very quaint boutique hotel with upscale atmosphere - not a mega-hotel feeling.
age rating: baby  ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens honua kai resort  is an affordable luxury option for families who want top-notch condo amenities  paired with the services of an upscale hotel.
renvyle house hotel city/region:
the caribbean beaches with warm blue waters are calm enough to be able to lie on a float and relax.
the sea-side promenade is pedestrian-only.
baby monitors are provided to parents who want them;  we were able to put our kids to bed and then sit in the lounge downstairs with  other guests.
pavillon de la reine city/region: paris accommodation category:
the owners and staff are very friendly and will do anything to make your stay memorable.
there is a laid-back and friendly vibe between  the owners and their guests and the owner is happy to arrange activities or  special meals.
there is no noise or light pollution and sleeping is easy for everyone.
casali  dei ciompi city/region: tuscany  accommodation category: villa location: countryside   standard:  simple   style: traditional cb!
hotel location: seaside    standard: simple   style: traditional cb!
we love that hawks cay is  small enough so kids can have a bit of independence and walk around on their  own.
while there are no views or interests within walking distance, the property is  clean, quiet and peaceful, and is a great value for families visiting san diego.
hotel adler-thermae city/region:
it’s obvious that the owner put a great deal of work into the  refurbishment of the property – every room is decorated with a focus on  quality.
the ratio of staff to guest was excellent and the ranch host was eager accommodate us and to customize our vacation to meet our needs!
beach that is nice for all.
kitchen is great for  conversation and relaxing.
the service is  fabulous.
guest rooms are simply decorated but  comfortable.
caribe hilton city/region: puerto rico  accommodation  category:
the location is excellent near other resorts and local shopping.
the kids club is excellent with great counselors.
the infinity swimming pool is among the most stunning i've ever seen.
theres an onsite restaurant and rooftop lounge, and the location is ideal for exploring chicago, just one block off the magnificent mile on michigan avenue.
the village lodge city/region: mammoth lakes accommodation category: resort location: mountains standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
a sliding door gives parents  privacy and it is perfect for putting the children to sleep and enjoying late  dinners with other guests or a private drink under the stars.
what works so well here  is that it is easy for parents to be with their kids or to grab some alone  time.
decor is traditional, inviting, and warm.
given the choice, i would choose the cottages over the villas they  are closer to the main hotel, pool, and tennis and have a nicer view.
my school aged kids loved that they got to make friends  with children from all over europe.
our room was  huge and beautiful.
although stoweflake is not  ski-in/ski-out, parking is easy at the ski hill and we love that the hotel is  located right in the adorable town of stowe with easy access to restaurants and  shops.
the location is not  on the water but still works well - it is 2 blocks from the beach.
bluefields bay villas city/region: jamaica accommodation category: villa location: seaside standard: luxurious style: old world cb!
there are so many onsite amenities at this property  that staying here was like being in our own private resort.
residence barberini is an  excellent value for rome given the sleeping capacity and location roberts grove beach resort city/region: placencia   accommodation category: hotel location: seaside    standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
it has interesting artwork and a unique character and the staff was wonderful with the children.
locanda di bagnara city/region: emilia romagna accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: upscale style:
there are umbrellas, but renting a cabana during very hot summer days guarantees shade and aprivacy for relaxing and having lunch or snacks.
the italian fine dining restaurant offers by far the best food on the island.
these new, spacious condos are wonderfully furnished with  top-of-the-line kitchens, luxurious bathrooms, and comfortable beds.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens conveniently located within 20 minutes of all the major  attractions (san diego zoo, seaworld, legoland, la jolla, del mar, gaslamp  district, etc), homewood suites makes an excellent home-base for enjoying the  many things to do in san diego.
the owners, collette and patrick, are fantastic hosts and when you leave chateau ribagnac, you feel like youve made friends for life.
age rating: baby ready,  school age action, cool for teens this villa has fantastic outdoor  spaces including a heated swimming pool and a covered, poolside loggia for  meals.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens a green vacation destination on a working organic farm with spectacular food and amazing history.
what works so well here is that it is easy for parents to be with their kids or to grab some alone time.
the food is excellent, although we loved going to playa del  carmen with our kids and frequently went into town for meals.
this is a huge property so there is room for kids to run around  outside, as well as a kids play area and animals that they can feed.
marco beach ocean resort city/region:  florida  accommodation category:
shuffle board, putting green, and a swimming pool.
the design was incredible and there is an ice slide  which is very entertaining.
california park hotel city/region:
interior room are  spacious and comfortable.
our family enjoyed short walks and hikes  though property grounds and paths.
located just a 2-minute walk from town, you dont feel like you are on top of everything yet there is easy access to restaurants and shopping.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun i've never experienced a hotel that is so beautiful and stylish, yet child-friendly.
walking distance to the zoo and near the ty warner natural history museum.
le hameau des baux city/region: provence accommodation category:
easy day trips to venice and exploring the veneto region.
age rating: baby ready,  school age action, cool for teens
full of  antiques, the interior is like stepping back in time and the atmosphere is  inviting and comfortable.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens borgo finocchieto is a magnificently renovated 800-year-old borgo - a village - located a few minutes from montalcino in southern tuscany.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens the setting around  chateau ribagnac is stunning.
if you would  like more room, beachfront cottages and nicely-appointed villas are also  available.
there was also a nearby golf course that we managed to play on and there is lots to do for young children with nearby beaches and horse riding.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens beautiful courtyard.
the villa is well-equipped with several indoor and outdoor activities for the children: pool table, badminton, basketball, soccer/football field, swimming pool, and ping pong.
small rooms and very small shower, but the staff couldn't have been nicer and the outside garden for breakfast was a wonderful way to start the day!
villas at kiawah island golf resort city/region:
tuscany accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
the setting is absolutely beautiful.
the sunny southeast poipu location is excellent with easy access to  shops and restaurants.
we  loved the fact that resort staff will drop off firewood and fire starters to  make it easy to build a campfire for s'mores.
restaurants are good too with a selection of varied options.
for the most part, we stayed put and enjoyed the beautiful space and grounds.
every age is happy at the nice beach and pools where kids can be kids.
a  really warm welcome from the owners who could not be more helpful.
vermont   accommodation category: hotel location:  mountains   standard: luxurious   style:
lighted pathways lead to the open air dining room where all meals are communal but not family style.
the crew at mystic river did everything possible to make our children feel welcome.
the views  from ocean-facing units are to die for and there is a beautiful, large swimming  pool and an onsite playground that my kids loved.
hotel location: city   standard: upscale   style:
chateau esperance city/region: dordogne  accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action this property is a wonderful place for hands-on farm experiences for children (holding baby sheep, shearing, learning about farm life, etc.)
cabanas have ceiling fans, indoor plumbing and double beds on wooden frames with very comfortable mattresses.
resort location: seaside   standard: upscale   style:
several restaurants to choose from although our experience was that the lunch options were better than the dinner selections.
furnishings are light and contemporary, yet still  kid-friendly.
the hotel is  beautifully situated overlooking the lower village and the st. lawrence river.
summer favorites include fly fishing, hiking, and horseback ridingwinter favorites are cross-country and alpine skiing.
low key and relaxed hawaii at its best!
from the relaxing lounge areas, a cozy library, a pampering spa, to the pga  golf courses, and an amazing pool area for children of all ages — the jw  marriott san antonio hill country resort & spa seems to have everything  right.
private meals can be arranged in the main house or guest rooms - my son is still talking about how much he loved his meal cooked by luigi, the in-house chef.
the staff made  our trip great and relaxing - they knew our names and always greeted our son.
all guest rooms in the village-like complex are either suites or villas  with plenty of room for families to spread out and move around.
the hotel has a beautiful, big lobby  with fireplaces where you can sit and have a drink, read a book, or play a  game.
over  the years, we’ve grown to love the family that runs waldhaus sils, the  staff, and the people that go there.
the property is quiet and relaxing  and all units have kitchenette/kitchen facilities.
the breakers city/region: florida accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: luxurious style:
the pool is the highlight with activities for all ages (they have a full aquatic playground) plus cabanas to escape the sun in comfort and style.
the grounds are spread out which means that even when it's fully booked there is a feeling of privacy.
club med ixtapa city/region: ixtapa  accommodation  category:
the apartment was very comfortable, clean, spacious, and accommodating for our family.
these serviced apartments include a fully equipped kitchen and  washer/dryer.
hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style: contemporary cb!
rooms are bright, cheerful, and are decorated in a fun and funky style  that our baby loved - even the cot is bright colored and gorgeous.
guest units are sparsely furnished  but include all the basic necessities families need.
the countryside setting is spectacular and full of interesting excursions.
we loved the  intimate and luxurious atmosphere, and the food was fantastic!
yoga,  crafts, drama, hiking, baking, and field trips to the thermal hot springs and a  local cheese farm.
the sheer beauty of the resort, mountains, and rivers  is beyond compare.
activities include indoor and outdoor pools, squash, tennis and a putting green.
there is a great pool for kids, hot tub, and tropical  animals everywhere on the property.
is there anyone better qualified to recommend the best properties for family travel?
starwood purchased the property and did a major renovationit is now more sophisticated and very pretty.
the idea behind bluefields bay is  that once you arrive you don't have to lift a finger.
rooms are spacious and there is an indoor pool that the boys loved to use after skiing.
loews miami beach hotel city/region: florida accommodation category:
there are an incredible number of things to do on and off property including fishing, tennis, golf, a playground, and kids club for ages 4-14 that runs during holiday periods.
the fairmont orchid city/region:
the property is very family-friendly with a childrens program and extensive year-round outdoor activities.
accommodations are comprised of hotel rooms, suites and self-catering apartments.
located in a picturesque  part of the english countryside, the cottage overlooks beautiful farmland.
hotel location: city standard: simple style:
the staff is great with kids and  very accommodating.
the hotel has great breakfasts and there are good  restaurants just a 10-minute walk into the village.
there is a fabulous massage therapist onsite too.
the cook is excellent and made special  meals for our kids.
its truly the best of both worlds.
we still talk about our adventure riding a mustang in a lake - bareback!
my son will remember his 10th birthday forever,  thanks to the thoughtfulness of 2 of the employees at the vero beach hotel.
there are plenty of restaurants nearby for those that want to walk to meals and the hotel offers free tickets in the evenings on the bahia belle boat (cruises through mission bay).
the apartments are close to perugia, asissi and cortona - a great location for exploring and easy access with roads.
masia bessones city/region: costa brava accommodation category:
there is a supervised children's program that will care for infants as well as toddlers, and many kids activities including table tennis, a trampoline, playground, and a fantastic indoor swimming pool.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens minutes from the beach or just outside your porch door.
clay brook at sugarbush city/region: vermont accommodation category:
everyone on property eats from cuixmala's  organic farm with locally sourced (and delicious) cheeses, and dairy and meats  from a nearby ranch.
despite all the upscale features appreciated by the  adults (spa, driving school, golf), there are many families that stay here for  the easy access to year-round outdoors activities including falconry school,  swimming, hiking, fly fishing, and skiing at nearby stratton and bromley.
there is also a teens' club and babysitting for infants and  toddlers.
la bandita city/region: tuscany accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun this villa  has a beautiful view and is located above the round hill resort.
hotel location: city standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
although this is one of switzerland's landmark luxury hotels,  it is very child-friendly.
a great place for walking strollers or hanging out and having a  coffee/drink break with your older children.
the safe and  secure environment makes it seem like you’re at home where you can put the  kids to bed with a monitor and head downstairs to relax.
great care has been taken to make sure guests are not inconvenienced while at the resort.
trapp family lodge city/region: vermont accommodation category:
bluefields bay villas city/region: jamaica  accommodation category: villa location: seaside   standard: luxurious   style:  old world cb!
accommodation options  include 4-7 bedroom villas that come fully staffed with a housekeeper, cook and  butler and hotel rooms in apartment-style buildings, many with oceanfront  terraces.
highlights include lincoln  road mall (three blocks away) - an open-air pedestrian promenade filled with  restaurants, outdoor cafes, stores, art galleries, and (at night) street  performers.
there are umbrellas, but  renting a cabana during very hot summer days guarantees shade and aprivacy for  relaxing and having lunch or snacks.
the food is delicious at both the steakhouse and the tavern, and we love the gorgeous fire-pit and terrace.
this amenity provides a comfortable way  to enjoy the gorgeous santa monica beach.
villa san  michele city/region: florence  accommodation category:
although the casita units are inland with a jungle view, the setting is stunning.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens orquideas is a colorful, spanish-style inn with simple rooms, some with views.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action beautifully restored working  farm/vineyard with lovely rooms, pool, grounds to roam, dining room, lounge,  outdoor patio.
children's high tea is served every day and is quite popular.
we spent 4 nights there recently with our three school-aged children who range between 9 and 14 years.
age rating: toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens mystic river resort is located 7 miles from san ignacio and santa elena and is one of the best places to do absolutely everything or absolutely nothing.
it is one of those places where parents truly have the best of both worlds - a romantic getaway and a family trip!
all villas include a private beach and floating sun dock.
hotel location:  city   standard: simple   style: traditional cb!
each elegantly decorated home  comes with private staff and a swimming pool.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens we had our family reunion in masia bessones with a mix  of children and adults.
the lush garden is wonderful, and there is even a bit of green grass for kids to run around.
there are beautiful ocean and jungle views from all areas of the property.
yucatan peninsula accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: luxurious style: trendy cb!
free morning coffee and doughnuts is a crowd pleaser too.
coltorto city/region: tuscany  accommodation category: villa location: countryside   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
it features a big kitchen, fantastic terrace, and overall is very functional and comfortable.
they are perfect for families with young children prioritizing convenience.
the beachfront grounds include wide-open spaces for kids to run around.
families with kids of all ages are scattered throughout the  property.
age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for  teens cuixmala is the coastal estate of sir james goldsmith.
kids are everywhere and there is always activity and  action in and around the public areas.
traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action hotel monaco's location is fabulous near the library with a 15,000 square foot children's section.
this  means independence for them and a break for us.
and it was extreme camping at best with -10 temperatures at night.
public areas are lively and the restaurant is a bit barish, but fine with kids.
our community review enables parents to share information about the best  family-approved accommodations using the ciao bambino approach.
surrounded by a jungle and private beaches, you will find crocodiles and turtles, and even open land with zebras, gazelles, and antelope.
fairmont scottsdale city/region: arizona accommodation category:
the property is walking distance to many of seattle's  tourist attractions.
there is a mix of apartments and larger  villa-type units here noting that the property is ideally configured for groups  that can take over the borgo and staff, consequently, there may be many weeks  during the year when the property is unavailable for individual families.
hotel location: mountains standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
the local  restaurants are great and the little beach just before onno is a nice place to  picnic.
hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
we stayed during thanksgiving when  they offered to cater our holiday meal and deliver it to our cabin.
traditional cb! age rating: baby ready, school age action, cool for teens beautiful inn in a quaint vermont town.
the property is close to nice parks for toddler play.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens club med ixtapa is a self-contained resort in a beautiful setting.
nestled in the canadian rocky mountains in banff  national park, it is a very special place to stay.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we've traveled  everywhere and this is one of our favorite resorts in the world with kids.
catered cottage city/region:  derbyshire  accommodation category: villa location:  countryside   standard: upscale   style:
located on a private wine estate, the  property is warm, friendly, well-kept, and surrounded by beautiful scenery.
the property is comprised of  three self-catering cottages that you can rent independently or together for  larger groups.
this apartment is wonderful  with all amenities to make a family stay very comfortable.
although the beach in front of the hotel is not swimmable for young kids, its an excellent place for kayaking and water sports.
guest accommodation options include rooms, condos, and individual houses with in-house chefs.
age rating: school age action, cool for teens vista verde is  the greatest vacation experience we’ve ever had.
every guest room is uniquely decorated, decadent, and cozy; several different configurations work for families.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens perfect ground floor  rooms for families with a patio that spills out onto grassy areas for kids to  play.
or,  you can opt for a cabin with small kitchen and plenty of sleeping options.
el capitan has something for everyone -- easy or challenging hikes into the foothills, a walk to one of the most striking beaches in california, a pool and playground, llamas, horses, bike riding -- it really can't be beat.
the wonderful buffet breakfast with chocolate croissants, crepes and various treats was a highlight for my children and the service was impeccable.
rocky mountains accommodation category: hotel location: mountains standard: luxurious style: contemporary cb!
complete with three slides, a kids’  pool, wading pool and oversized hot tub, they’ll never want to leave.
barbados accommodation category: hotel location: seaside standard: luxurious style: traditional cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens this property has great suites that are extremely affordable with plenty of room for a toddler to run around plus a huge bathroom, even by american standards and a private outside seating area.
tabacon grand spa thermal resort city/region: arenal volcano accommodation category: resort location: mountains standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
located in the heart of the loire valley in a tranquil and rural setting, it's close to the best vineyards, castles, and towns to explore with kids.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens a fantastic ski house that sleeps over 20 and is loaded  with amenities for a multi-family stay.
several pools to choose from along with activities for the children at the kid's club.
the delicious, upscale restaurant works  for all with a children's early seating during peak family periods.
the area is not touristy and the hotel arranged fabulous local tours - a chocolate farm, local tribes (they loved our blond son!) and local beaches.
epic skiing and hiking is plentiful in  this area.
and i can’t say enough about their treatment and flexibility for all  ages—they catered to our needs in every way.
liassidi palace hotel city/region:  venice/veneto  accommodation category: hotel location:  city   standard: upscale   style: old world cb!
reviews community reviews review a property recent posts africa asia australia/new zealand canada caribbean costa rica england france ireland italy spain switzerland united states general travel tips blog articles guides villa agencies flights book list links our team our story evaluation cb!
hotel cenobio dei dogi city/region: italian riviera  accommodation category: resort location: seaside   standard: upscale   style:
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens location, location, location.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens
villas at kiawah island golf resort city/region: kiawah island   accommodation category: resort location: seaside    standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
there is a great pool for kids, hot tub, and tropical animals everywhere on the property.
fairmont scottsdale city/region: arizona  accommodation  category:
squaw valley lodge city/region: lake tahoe accommodation category:
there  are plenty of restaurants nearby for those that want to walk to meals and the  hotel offers free tickets in the evenings on the bahia belle boat (cruises  through mission bay).
a former presbytery, the ambiance is medieval - a fun and fascinating atmosphere for kids.
rancho las palmas resort and spa city/region: palm springs   accommodation category: resort location:  countryside   standard: upscale   style:
this made  quebec a perfect destination for my family in february.
every guest  room is uniquely decorated, decadent, and cozy; several different  configurations work for families.
our room was  spacious and clean and the bathroom had a jacuzzi tub.
even the guest room experience is like staying in the alps what a treat!
we loved the warm welcome from the owner with fresh  scones and tea.
full room service is  available, a nice convenience for jet-lagged families.
residence barberini city/region: rome accommodation category: apartment location: city standard: simple style: trendy cb!
age rating: baby ready, school age action finca rosa blanca is a great jumping off point for a vacation in costa rica.
the rooms, which are mostly suites, have upscale white linen decor, but also happen to be comfortable.
the kids loved this small,  eco-inn with its natural pool and huge bathrooms.
walking distance to the zoo and near  the ty warner natural history museum.
parent ready: common bbq for dads (or moms) to grill each night while families watch the sun set together.
catamaran resort city/region: san diego accommodation category: hotel location: city standard: simple style: traditional cb!
windows opened up to the canal!
tuscany   accommodation category: resort location:  countryside   standard: simple   style:  traditional cb!
albergo santa chiara city/region:  rome  accommodation category:
accommodations are comprised of hotel rooms, suites  and self-catering apartments.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we really enjoyed the fairmont kea lani as a family.
it is very civilized but kids can still swing on vines and feel like tarzan!
great location and a warm feeling.
a great place for walking strollers or hanging out and having a coffee/drink break with your older children.
the delicious, upscale restaurant works for all with a children's early seating during peak family periods.
tuscany   accommodation category: resort location:  countryside   standard: upscale   style:
extensive supervised children's programs are available from 6 weeks and up.
the atmosphere is warm  and friendly with multiple restaurants and a pool area that are kid-friendly.
all guest rooms in the village-like complex are either suites or villas with plenty of room for families to spread out and move around.
resort location:  seaside   standard: luxurious   style:
the town is cute and the overall area is perfect for  walking and bike riding.
fairmont banff springs city/region: banff accommodation category: hotel location: mountains standard: upscale style:
oceana santa monica city/region: los angeles area   accommodation category: hotel location: seaside    standard: upscale   style: boutique cb!
the kitchen was big - we even had a dinner party there with  friends.
nicely appointed, the room  configuration in these guest units is ideal.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens bluefields bay villas are an exclusive collection of six seaside homes with with stunning caribbean views.
guest rooms are spacious with outdoor patios—villa/hacienda units have  kitchens as well.
age rating: school age action, cool for teens vista verde is the greatest vacation experience weve ever had.
pavillon de la reine is part of the historic place des vosges and guests enjoy a unique parisian experience at this gem.
l'andana city/region:  tuscany  accommodation category:
every room has  screens and air-conditioning.
there was little to no passing traffic.
tennis available with lessons as well as a  sand volleyball court.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action,  cool for teens this 54-room property in the heart of the marais has a  number of excellent room options for families.
residence barberini is an excellent value for rome given the sleeping capacity and location roberts grove beach resort city/region: placencia accommodation category: hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style: traditional cb!
age rating: baby ready,  school age action, cool for teens the inn at sugar bowl is one of the  few moderately priced tahoe accommodations that is ski-in/ski-out.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens squaw valley lodge's location and simplicity are hard to beat.
luxurious large  rooms with breakfast included.
resort location: countryside   standard:  luxurious   style:
the hotel staff is friendly and can reserve a space at one of the private beach clubs.
they are interesting, knowledgeable,  warm, and generous hosts.
hotel cenobio dei dogi city/region: italian riviera accommodation category: resort location: seaside standard: upscale style:
it is  eco-friendly and all guests stay in private bungalows.
a few outdoor fireplaces  entertain adults.
meanwhile, adults can enjoy a casino and great dining options, an incredible spa, and workout facilities.
our kids loved  the outdoor heated pool and got a kick out of swimming and jumping in snow at  the same time.
with two restaurants, nice gardens, and a private  beach club with secluded swimming area, this hotel has something to offer  families with children of a variety of ages.
kid-focused activities here are great and include a game room and extensive kids' night out program.
a nice place for family strolls with a carousel that provides some entertainment.
the hotel offers incredible food, golf, tennis, watersports, and a beautiful spa.
close to subway access.
beach toys are provided on arrival  and the restaurant is clearly experienced in hosting families.
mountains   standard: upscale   style: traditional cb!
recently renovated family cabins are comfortable and ideally configured with  pocket doors you can close for separation and privacy.
onsite amenities include a restaurant and swimming pool—it’s small  and deep—but still a nice alternative to the beach.
beach that is nice  for all.
everyone onsite went out of their way to offer a personalized  experience for our son.
fairmont kea lani city/region:  maui  accommodation category: resort location:  seaside   standard: upscale   style:
oahu accommodation category: hotel location: seaside standard: upscale style:
we love the luxury here - the  property is very comfortable with gorgeous rooms.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens casitas are stylish and offer generous space for families.
the hotel has great breakfasts and there are good restaurants just a 10-minute walk into the village.
the highlight of this property for families is the fantastic outdoor areas for kids, including a large garden and heated swimming pool.
the poolside bar is dedicated to marilyn  monroe with great food and drink.
our apartment, la torre, has a private terrace on the roof and we  looked at the stars every night – wonderful!
rooms are simple (3 star) but spacious and there are a few configurations that support families.
tuscany accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: simple style: traditional cb!
the weekly caribbean floor show is a must-experience event.
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action set in beautiful countryside, plenty of  space for children to run around.
the staff is wonderful and offers great local excursion advice and guided activities.
jw marriott san antonio hill country resort & spa city/region: san antonio accommodation category:
there is something for  everyone: parents are able to get a vacation with and without their kids.
the rooms at byrnesgrove are spacious and nicely appointed and the ensuite bathrooms are generously sized.
our kids loved the huge lawn (perfect for running around and  chasing bugs), swimming pool, and the farm animals.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens as you head through stowe, past town and up rte 108, tucked away you will find topnotch a preferred boutique, four diamond, resort and spa.
theres also a small grocery store where you can buy snacks and supplies for nightly "smores" that you roast over a poolside fire pit.
is there anyone better  qualified to recommend the best properties for family travel?
guest rooms are spacious and wonderfully appointed.
there are endless recreational opportunities for all ages.
shoreham city/region: new york city accommodation category:
age rating: baby ready,  toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens beautifully maintained  self-catering apartments with plenty of extras thrown in.
the rooms are well-equipped and the service is  friendly.
the property has a laid back western ranch atmosphere - not too extravagant - but not too simple either, a nice balance for those that want a bit of everything.
they have one of the best  year-round outdoor pools with breathtaking views and scenery.
the accommodations are quiet, independent  cabanas and villas.
age rating: baby  ready, toddler fun, cool for teens ravello is a quaint town with lots  of local children.
mexico - netherlands- new zealand-
the suite-style rooms are gorgeous and very privateours had a roof deck and plunge pool with a view of the beautiful lagoon.
onsite amenities are numerous including the river ranch area that is  perfect for children and includes a swimming pool, hot tub, a toddler pool with  a water spray play area, tree swings, bocce ball, basketball courts and lots of  grass.
the  front desk staff is friendly and helpful.
this is not one of those “kids”  hotels where you are surrounded by animation.
furnishings are light and contemporary, yet still kid-friendly.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens carmel valley ranch is a wonderful destination with kids.
johnny and pamela are great local guides for sites and great food.
age rating: baby  ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we stay in new  york often and love the location of the shoreham.
one particularly nice feature is the  affordable children’s menu given that the restaurant is the only option  for meals and you can’t keep food in cabins because of bears.
we were actually able to relax on the beach while our son played in the sand -  much easier at an intimate resort like this!
topnotch resort and spa city/region: vermont   accommodation category: resort location:
it is located 20 minutes from the airport.
since they have 3 kids, they have almost anything you forget to bring from toys to raincoats.
the roberts grove is one of those properties that is kid-friendly, but caters to grown-ups too.
we had our own butler for the tentby the end of the week he was part of the family.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action located in  the iconic and historic village of bellagio, guests appreciate the wonderful  lake and mountain views from hotel belvedere.
loews miami beach hotel city/region: florida  accommodation category:
ranch location: mountains   standard:  upscale   style: traditional cb!
with amazing views and incredible wildlife, the casual  but luxurious accommodations are perfect for families.
the spot is beautiful, and the cottage is comfortable with great views.
we all loved it,  especially our grandchildren ages 3, 5 and 6.
hotel location: countryside   standard:  luxurious   style: boutique cb!
travelers  newsletter         |      join in the fun, write a review home |  destinations | hotel reviews | hotel specials | blog | travel tips | about us |  property partners | policies | sitemap
tuscany accommodation category: hotel location: countryside standard: upscale style: contemporary cb!
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun le hameau des baux is a beautiful property in a gorgeous provence setting.
hotel location: lake   standard:  luxurious   style: old world cb!
little details are done very well—there is an outdoor bbq for  meals with a grassy area where kids can run around while adults sip wine.
with direct flights from  new york and many us cities, it's a perfect escape for a long weekend or a  week-long vacation.
resort location: seaside standard: upscale style: old world cb!
tuscany accommodation category: villa location: countryside standard: simple style: traditional cb!
the lodge at steamboat city/region:
a small facility, it feels crisp and lodge-esq while being kid-friendly.
cottages are well-appointed for  families.
resort location: seaside   standard:  luxurious   style:
staying at this resort feels like you are on your own private tropical island getaway featuring luxurious condo-style rooms with gourmet kitchens and plenty of space for families.
the atmosphere is intimate and relaxinga very different experience than staying at a busy, mega-hotel.
tuscany accommodation category: resort location: countryside standard: upscale style:
the rooms are spacious and recently updated, and many have large  balconies with a classic view over the city's rooftops.
mini-golf, cracker jax race cars, and a train park with a carousel are nearby.
chateau de ribagnac city/region: limousin accommodation category:
the location is great with very good service and amenities.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens we stay in new york often and love the location of the shoreham.
atlantis city/region:
united states all destinations north america canada caribbean continental usa hawaii mexico central america belize costa rica
friendly, helpful proprietor and staff.
the atmosphere is friendly and the food is excellent.
free morning coffee and doughnuts is  a crowd pleaser too.
located in northern umbria near the border with tuscany, this is a great location for those that want to explore small, less touristy villages and outdoor opportunities like hiking and biking are plentiful.
cuisinart resort and spa city/region:  anguilla  accommodation category: hotel location:  seaside   standard: luxurious   style:  contemporary cb!
the property is set right on mirror lake with a private beach.
there is an incredible array of things to do for families from cross country skiing to a rustic cabin for lunch, to downhill skiing in stowe, to swimming in their indoor pool, to participating in their kids club and activities (not to mention a long list of wonderful summer activities too).
the accommodations were not fancy, rather they were true to the spirit of the west!
we met fabulous people from all over the world and will surely return to red horse mountain next summer.
theres an arcade, on-site surfing lessons and bike rentals, large workout facility and spa for adult relaxation.
my boys loved the huge bathtub and could practically swim laps in it.
the food was excellent and a delight to eat every night.
surf lessons in front of beach, pool with water slide  (and shallow area with sand for babies) across the street; gather plumeria  flowers and string a lei!
we easily got an early check in (to make naptime), carried nothing but our son to the room and found a nice crib with brand new linens, baby toiletries and a stuffed animal in our room.
it is located in a charming part of new york city where you feel like a local because it is set in a neighborhood.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action, cool for teens set in the gorgeous val d'orcia, in close proximity to the wonderful hilltop towns of pienza, montalcino, and montepulciano, adler-thermae is a thermal spa resort that combines zen sensibilities with tuscan charm and hospitality.
parents will appreciate the on-site spa and fitness center, as well as the onsite restaurants where kids under 5 eat free.
rooms rates are value-oriented for this area.
this property offers the perfect combination of villa amenities  paired with resort services.
try and select an  upgraded room (casita or casita suite).
we didn't have a car for our  trip, but we still took many fun day trips from this area.
age rating: baby ready, toddler fun, school age action set in beautiful countryside, plenty of space for children to run around.
they even have boot warmers availabletalk about luxury!