christian louboutin very prive peep-toe shoes black black leather.
i love your amazing video!
(john kenneth galbraith)
i have be aware your stuff prior to and you’re just too great.
the genetic analysis of  peter savolainen of the royal institute of technology in sweden has placed the  origins of domesticated dogs — and those of the first dog — in east  asia.
goodmovies you have there this show was great.
and i hope you like my complment i just watched this.
what else can i say..well done,bravo my commet is:i think this is a nice vedieo
i have had the pleasure of many types of dogs in my family, but i must say never have i seen a sweeter, more intelligent, gentle animal in my life.
being a dog owner all my life, i am empowered to continue sharing my life with them with respect and appreciation for all their unique talents and connections to mother earth.
he used to be totally right.
and they sure did change my world my everything.
dogs are cool i love dogs so much!!!!
by arguing, all you’re doing is showing the kids that come here for the education how to be violent with harsh words over the cyber-world.
or your jack russel not to dig holes in the garden.
i must say that a wolf hybrid is not an animal that you put in the backyard and occasional play with.
one of the biggest problems today with dog owners is they go out and obtain dogs that gain popularity by their presence in a movie or commercial.
thanks normally i don’t read article on blogs, however i wish to say that this write-up very pressured me to take a look at and do it!
they have special powers.
you’re not getting married!
but i don’t know where can i find subtitle.
admitedely his own fault and he has changed his ways..
i have a beef about people (1) breeding dogs with genetic problems including those with too large heads (births require c-sections), extremely flattened faces(difficulty breathing), etc., and (2) tail and ear cropping to suit show standards (dewclaws are another matter as removing them after birth can prevent later injury).
she makes me feel so good when that tail wags and she “talks” (not barking) to me.
the dog portions of his lineage were far removed…into the great grandparents.
close this window to: from: subject: thought you would be interested in the following link: close this window211 responses to “introduction” i think that the dogs here were very clever on how they changed the world.
giving milk is not an involuntary act, but an expression of love.
shess not answeringg my texts!!!
nature’s “valley of the wolves” episode and do not believe they would ever intentionally mean to demean or slander wolves.
what’s wrong with a simple puppy/kennel cut?
dogs that changed the world – introduction – dog breeds | nature [...] i tottaly hate dogs cats rule (”’)
download error here is your download link we couldnt some how reach you with email
dude that is awesome dawg you dawg
you can not believe just how a lot time i had spent for this info!
users may link to other web sites relevant to discussion, but most often links to commercial web sites will not be permitted.
i hate it how pit bulls r treated.
they are trying to get an education, but, unfortunately, the educational system is one of the numerous problems in this country today.
a person essentially lend a hand to make significantly articles i’d state.
i hate that wolves are depicted as savages.
would love a large dog but in a one bedroom apartment that would be cruel.
we never forgot that he was a wolf.
i am not real good with english
if those wolves with smaller flight distance evolved into dogs, why didn’t those foxes with smaller distances also evolve into dogs as the russian experiment suggests?
on the other hand, i am rather astonished by the low level of literacy of all too many of those commenting here.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eqobiue1ztu i am trying to figure out the breed of the larger of the two cancer sbiffibg dogs.
we all play in my 10 acre garden that has a three fountains, a huge playground, basketball court, soccer field, hockey pitch, swimming pool park, and soo much other stuff.
we all evolved from a speck of bacteria, which i beleive that god made happen, therefore we should place ourselves any higher up than the rest of the animal kingdom.
that changed the world
im with ms/mrs lavine here kids come here for help dont teach them the wrong things heya i’m for the primary time here.
jake rules the waves.
i like dogs much more now.
is this a sunday night thing?
hello there, you have done an incredible job.
i hope that everyone had a great weekend
that is the ony part i dinit like.
this is not to mention the rank commercialism of those seeking free advertising.
your site offered us with valuable information to paintings on.
i have recently started a web site, and the info you provide on this web site has helped me a lot.
please also consult with my web site =).
i dont suppose ive read anything like this before.
if i want to see dogs, i can just take a stroll around the block.
please note that the thirteen editorial staff reserves the right to not post comments it deems to be inappropriate and/or malicious in nature, as well as edit comments for length, clarity and fairness.
as dog lover and owner most of my life i was mesmerized by the things that i didn’t know.
while our educational system and values are worthy of attention, one benefits from being humble!
if they are adults, take a night class.
this picture is so cute!!!!!
allah; surely allah is swift in reckoning.
number two, we did not “evolve” from a spek of bacteria.
will you say yes or no?
thanks, very great article.
dogs did not evolve, neither did any other animals!!!
i would take this as an an opportunity for learning and advancement.
but they make such a mess so my maids have to clean it up.
your text is certainly very powerful and this is possibly why i am making the effort to comment.
pretty cool booglie dooglie!
thanks one million and please keep up the gratifying work.
mrs. koplow, i can understand your feelings about the use of the word savage, as you are completely correct about the consequences if that is the intent of the word to use it for the negative connotations carried with the word savage.
wow, either things must really be slow at nature or it’s an awful sign of how degraded our natural world has truly become if they’re doing two shows in a row about dogs for gosh sakes!
over 400 breeds of dog are recognized around the world, each unique for its personality, habits, and form.
i am fairly sure i’ll learn lots of new stuff right right here!
i finally got my driver problem solved, your solution is perfect!
puppy mill owners should rot in jail forever!
{many prospects will ask freelancers to do a sample work for free just to gauge their skills and i want to ask if anyone has done something like it?
it was absolutely wonderful.
generally i don’t read post on blogs, but i wish to say that this write-up very forced me to take a look at and do so!
in those talks, the research with the black fox has been an example i hve used to explain genetic/breeding selection for temperment.
i came across this board and i in finding it truly useful & it helped me out a lot.
as the same with dogs.
i adopted 3 of different kind from a shelter.
thanks for your thoughts on this, i felt a bit struck by this article.
dogs that changed the world introduction dogs that changed the world introduction nature’s two-part special dogs that changed the world tells  the epic story of the wolf’s evolution, how “man’s best  friend” changed human society and how we in turn have radically  transformed dogs.
how come only a few loves them.
all animals keep the world going around….and we shouldnt forget….we are animals just like dogs.
the one part that i dinit like about that was in the how dogs changed the world part 2, was how the small chinese dogs were sloughtered but the soldiers who destroyed the princesses home in the twain dinasty but at lest a few of these beautiful dogs were saved and now the breead is back to where it is suppost to in a protected aer where no body will beable to kill them.
:-) sincerley, student from a illinois middle school the dog is very ugly i find it amazing how this breed changed some people like the blind or can go to the hospital and make people happy and when you are sad they will be there for you i find it right that they have earned the name “man’s best friend” beacuse thats what they are.
i think dogs are the best thing created in this world.
hey there, you have done an incredible job.
dogs are never ugly it all, they are smart.
i like the helpful information you supply to your articles.
i love dogs, cats, rats, mice, bunnies, hamsters, guinea pigs, and pretty much all animals that walk the earth.
in this way they have the same right like us to survie.
having said that, allow me tell you exactly what did give good results.
i enjoyed the program and look forward to the second half.
what’s your take on this subject?
when are you going to put the episodes online?
the swedish doctor had an all-black dog… does anyone know what kind it was?
i bought this video because it’s a great intro for anyone and everyone interested in dogs/dog behaviour/dog history!
they are known to be vicious and most that purchase them dont realise there personality or temperament is this..
the level of literacy evident throughout the responses to this fabulous and informative program is lamentable.
say: the good things are allowed to you, and what you have taught the beasts and birds of prey, training them to hunt– you teach them of what allah has taught you– so eat of that which they catch for you and mention the name of allah over it; and be careful of (your duty to)
every site should have that!
and that could not be more true right here.
as an ‘englishteacher’ myself, i can tall you that i wouldn’t praise my kids for mediocre or subpar performance.
have you ever seen a dog hater?
i knew how to spell at that age.
this put up truly made my day.
we should think of not torchoring our dogs like we do at the rate we do now so do me a fav and make your dogs happy and that will give them a little smile on the inside.
^ as said above its all in the way that they are raised by the owners.
hey you elsa, why do u have to be uptight about all of this.
wow that was truly fascinating, altought i would add few much more deeper thoughts
[5.4] (qu’ran) this is a video that is important for viewers to see if they love animals!
also, has anyone tried to repeat the russian fox experiment, but use wolves instead to prove the theory that wolves with shorter flight distance (tamer wolves) evolved into dogs?
i think this is random but my bff rocks!!
most of these breeds exploded onto the scene over the past 150 years, spurred by the victorian-era passion for the “dog fancy” — the selective breeding of dogs to enhance particular characteristics.
linda recently posted..
you are interpreting that they are using savage with the definition of something unthinkingly violent and simply cruel.
it’s very true,if dogs were never born in the world man kind would be lost forever.
i like cats better than dogs :)
wow, i can’t believe people bashing at each other just because of some poor grammar, looking down at those people with bad grammar makes you feel greater doesn’t it?
the comic strip is tasteful, your authored material stylish.
that makes me sad because i got a peke who was rescued from a puppy mill and i adore her.
i’m looking forward to the actual commencement of my university research and the entire prep would never have been complete without visiting your website.
dogs are amazing creature they are so smart and helpful im happy to have them..and they deserve the best the possibility that instead of humans domesticating dogs, that dogs (or wolves) were domesticating us is fascinating.
i will certainly digg it and personally recommend to my friends.
my whole point in life is to help them..
admirable work and much success in your business enterprize!
i think that is the problem with most pit owners.
does anyone know anything else about dogs that weren’t in the video?
part i of this series was fascinating to both me and my labrador puppy.
pembrook corgis are true dogs.
i am dedicated though to the chinese crested breed.
they will always love you, for rich or for poor, for better or worse, in sickne….. wait!
so many breeds :o you guys, why fight over grammer on pbs?
very prive peep toe shoes black ,you can order christian louboutin very prive peep-toe shoes.
omigod its cool but creepy lol 7th grader at illinois lol i spelled it
we are a bunch of volunteers and opening a brand new scheme in our community.
most of these breeds exploded onto the scene  over the past 150 years, spurred by the victorian-era passion for the  “dog fancy” — the selective breeding of dogs to enhance  particular characteristics.
humans modified dogs to their want and with this came a number of terrible health problems, but do the humans care how the dog suffers - no. ugly, horrible, sickening, stupid, humans..
very excellent put up, i actually adore this website, carry on it
at first glance, and if it holds true to the quality nature has brought thus far it will be very enjoyable.
i always have fun with them.
fascinating stuff, thanks for sharing.
please… dogs are not ugly!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1 dogs are fantastic and very lovable, so much so that many humans obsessed with dogs would come to the rescue of a dog before they would come to the rescue of another human.
yal need to stop maken theses dogs act like this cause this is how yal dum people are making these dogs fight but when my kin fult fightthey dogs they do not get hert bad badbut yals do……………… 不错 i honestly wish that some of you would proofread and edit your posts before submitting.
it’s so important to know what the dog was bred to do before making the decision to own it.
there are 2 things that i find
secondly, despite the fact that i can notice a leaps in reasoning you come up with, i am definitely not convinced of how you seem to connect your points which produce the conclusion.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
preview part two: dogs by design get the flash player  to see the wordtube media player.
thanks, very great post.
http://www.efurminator.com
i’ll have to look for this on netflix, it sounds really interesting.
fantastic program, as always nature engages, educates and entertains.
anyway, getting back on the topic, i have been a student of the dog for many years and was surprised to learn some things i have not heard of before.
just for feelings, maybe.
how do we know the ancients had garbage ?
they help us and ther our best friends.. jus so many words to describe how i feel about dogs they are my life my world my everything.
i think that you could do with a few pics to drive the message home a bit, but other than that, this is excellent blog.
does that not say something to you?
you have performed a formidable process and our whole neighborhood will probably be thankful to you.
i’ve been a dog lover all my life and felt i knew a lot about them.
good luck for the following!
the title is dogs that changed the world/ how can i?
=d at home i have a husky/wolf/dingo mix!!!
i was at a safe and respectful distance of course; and savage would definantly apply to the course of action they took.
and i’m satisfied reading your article.
a most informative program re:dogs – - as usual as a result of your excellent programming i learned a lot about dogs – - now i understand more about why they behave the way they do – - also why some people should never own one how do i order the parts 1 & 2 on dvd – - somehow i missed the 800 number!
what is the name of the breed in the show that’s essentially a dog-fox hybrid?
you’ll also  learn how dogs’ finely tuned senses are serving humans and saving lives.
the ones in the show were mostly black, and it was during the segment that also discussed how melatonin is linked to the tame disposition, etc.
this is not an english class so don’t show ur teacher “skills” somewhere it’s not needed.
wolf/hybrids make terrible pets.but amazing companions.
i have a border colie red healer mix does that mean 2 dogs were put in danger i love all dogs no matter what shape, size weather big or small, fat or skinny, i think they are all beautiful,intelligent creatures that walk this earth today.
needless to say, i missed this episode.
thank you pbs for excellent shows.
we were created by the one true god.
=] agree with the comments about the positivity in making potential dog owners aware of the black fox program – i have never, nor would i ever, own a dog whose genetic propensities would make them an unsuitable fit for my lifestyle.
i have worked in rescue of aussies and breeds alike and am working toward a degree in psychology and ma in animal behaviour, so i can continue to work with dogs.
whether you want to look stunningly beautiful at party or want to be a stylish lady at work, these christian louboutin boots can actually turn a simple going everyday girl to an exceptionally gorgeous lady.
=[ ugh christy waas screammiiing at me againn todaayy.
i believe you made certain nice points in features also.
which isn’t one thing i normally do!
i watched the whole thing.
i looovvveeeee themm and havee threee doggsss 3 catss onee bird and a hamsterr.
midnightsoul1992 dawgz r gudd :)))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))))!!!!
why can’t everyone appreciate animals and all they do for us?
your writing taste has been surprised me.
what’s wrong with an intelligent designer deciding man needed a helper?
i would love to see more shows on this dispicable practice since this is still such a huge problem in the u.s and canada.
a number of kids do actually enjoy pbs and have posted comments.
it will be beneficial to anybody who utilizes it, including me.
in fact, i guide them toward excellence.
all others are wannabes.
christian louboutin very prive peep-toe shoes black,up to 95% off!
or the pitbull they would take a small stubby dog and bread it with ont that has a muscular body and it would come out to that.
this a fascinating topic, and a wonderful story of the evolutionary process, under the unique selective pressure of human desire.
now have a cute pom/chi mix from a shelter that is loving, fun, and a non-lethal watchdog(barks, but kisses).
but as i have not gone through it thoroughly, i cannot know the entire context of the quote in question.
i am sure they will be benefited from this website.
i just think it is unfair that you won’t get paid for a work done, whether it’s spec or a trial job.
and i love her to death
frankly i’m surprised at the negative reaction from some of your readers, i thought your post was very thoughtful and true.
this episode should be included in science course for all grade levels!
i precisely desired to thank you very much all over again.
kimi ni todoke will turn out to be a great one, if the plot keeps on the manga
[...] from the wolf.
your video was cool i guess.
i appreciate information on that.
near the begining of the first episode they show a set of 4 puppies and ask people to pick their favorite… does anyone know for sure what breed those puppies are?
i didnt get to see this show, but if dish network has the channel, hopefully i will be able to find it.
so, i’m in agreement with elsa.
its just that this is the equivalent of watching an episode about flies or sparrows or chickens.
you’ll also discover 14 dog breeds that controversial genetic  studies show are the most ancient — and the best living representatives  of the ancestors to all living dogs.
another spectacular job, nature!
all i am saying is please consider it in full context; and that they are not saying savagery defines the wolf entirely; merely, that it is a part of the wolf the same as every carnivore has a bit of savagery in it.
hi there may i quote some of the insight found in this site if i reference you with a link back to your site?
i missed the name and cannot find the details here on pbs or elsewhere on the web.
michael is a sleepy guinea pig.
here: http://www.editingproofreading.com.au/editing-or-proofreading/
and we students can be on facebook as well as educational sites.
she watched mostly whenever there was a dog noise coming from the t.v.
i beloved up to you’ll obtain performed proper here.
i can’t wait to learn much more from you.
he was house trained in two days.
my friends and i hang out here everyday with my pets.
i think they realy can cheange the world.
visit us at:http://www.summervilleveterinary.com/ australian terrier is the best of the best breeds – well behaved, courageous.
it actually was an absolute frustrating case in my view, however , observing this expert technique you solved it made me to cry for contentment.
you are making it enjoyable and you still take care of to stay it smart.
by tinkering with its genetics, humans made the dog  the most varied animal species on the planet — and also created a host of  hereditary health problems.
we’ve become a society that believes anything is disposable if it becomes a burden to our own lifestyle.
ma girlie<333 lmfaoo todaayyy mrs c like totallyy trippedd and did the chalkk thing!!
ill unquestionably come more before again as exactly the similar just about a lot incessantly inside case you defend this increase.
it took this show to educate and convice me i needed to learn more.
preview part two: dogs by designget the flash player to see the wordtube media player.
my dog only has 1 leg
regards, 6 grader from sa remember dogs love you unconditionly as their name spelled backwards does.
in part two, “dogs by design,”  you’ll discover how these hard-wired behaviors help different types of  dogs, from hounds to herders, excel at different tasks (and why it can  sometimes be so difficult to train them to do otherwise).
where did these people go to school?
duh, i think i just found the info i was looking for — it’s the domesticated silver fox breeding program in russia — http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/domesticated_silver_fox could someone tell me when part 2 will show?
by tinkering with its genetics, humans made the dog the most varied animal species on the planet — and also created a host of hereditary health problems.
thank you, l it takes lots of faith to believe that wolves, on their own, decided to breed out agressive traits, to get to dogs.
great show for d lovers!
if only it was as easy to implement some of the solutions as it was to read and nod my head at each of your points.
treated with respect and love the dog will show the same back but treated in the way that is bad or poorly does not bode well for the dog.
i wonder if anyone has thought of breeding a dog from wolves which would be similar to the early dog breeds?
scientific studies and anecdotal observation has shown that they are not savages.
all breeds have been created with certain charateristics “hard wired” into their behaviour pattern.
yo, wuz up homr skillet bisket, i jus’ luvz yo website, go dogs!!!!
as as the maxim goes, details make or break the argument..
http://earlydogtraining.com/general/furminator-deshedding-tool-review/ offered great insight into the dog’s history.
but you eventually get over it.
it’s hard to search out knowledgeable folks on this subject, but you sound like you already know what you’re talking about!
the show may be very informative, but i disagree with the phrase “all dogs evolved from the savage and wild wolf”.
a little suprised by some of the negative comments such as “dogs are ugly” and “i hate dogs”.
this is the very first time i frequented your website page and to this point?
i like the video dog!!!
anyone know what that dog-fox breed is called?
i breed rhodesian ridgebacks occassionally and have discussed the make up of behaviour and personality many times with potential puppy owners.
ruruaisgfubwchvcssge, delo, ecwctjw.
sabre is greatly missed by our entire family and everyone that he came into contact with were amazed by him.
dogs do not care if you didnt put makeup on, they love us unconditionally.
if you feel interested in the christian louboutin
during the show, the narrator was speaking about dogs being “hard-wired” in specific ways, and owners should realize they can’t change the dog’s ways.
wrong number one, dogs are not ugly!
these are some new and fresh ones :d beats by dr dre beats dr dre i’m not positive where you’re getting your information, but great topic.
it’s been one of my favorite shows for years.
i loved part 2 as much as part 1… i believe there could even be a part 3.
and i think this is a historacal ficshon and a noun fickshon vedieo
you’ll also discover 14 dog breeds that controversial genetic studies show are the most ancient — and the best living representatives of the ancestors to all living dogs.
in part one, “the rise of the dog,” you’ll learn about how the domestication of dogs might have taken place, including the theory of biologist raymond coppinger that it was the animals themselves — and human trash — that inspired the transformation.
these dogs unfortunately end up in shelters because the owners didn’t do their homework and research the dogs intended use.
a have a alaskan malimute i my opinion anyone can deny the importance of dogs in our life,for different reasons: first of all,dog is like humain being a god creature.
truely is amazing!!look forward to more such viewing thank you;robert
however, please allow me to suggest something that i feel is more likely.
thanks pbs……………we love you.
produced by thirteen ©2012 educational broadcasting corporation.
i really like what you’ve obtained right here, really like what you are saying and the way during which you are saying it.
perhaps domestication happened because these animals had the capacity to love humans and see them as surrogate young in need of being fed was central to the process and no less (or more) planned out than on the human side.
your tone is reminiscent of someone who gets kicks out of putting other people down……not what i expected at this site.
x0xnaexg<3 awww i heardd.
keep doing what you are doing – can’r wait to read more posts.
i am most interested, but cannot find the place at pbs.com.
i absolutely love dogs.
i totly love dogs…i have a dog named bull, he is a pit bull….they r sooooooooo cute
i agree with your conclusions and will eagerly look forward to your incoming updates.
i do not produce the show, but i have had the privilege of viewing (multiple times)
your series is supposed to be about wild animals and/or wild places, nature!
in honor of a principled man karen sa oled nii ilus bakemonogatari is definitely a anime series that made you go wow at the end of each episode
we are evolving every day, and continue to do so.
additionally, thanks for permitting me to comment!
as a professional dog trainer and behaviorists, i thought this was a great program.
thank you for educating the public.
i needs to spend some time finding out more or working out more.
ie still is the marketplace chief and a large component to people will omit your wonderful writing due to this problem.
i am purchasing this video to share with my third grade students in watts, california so that they too can be aware of nature’s unique balance as a portal to unique discoveries our world has to offer.
it shaowed how they breeaded diffrent dogs together to get the on that they wanted.
i’m confident they’ll be benefited from this website.
rock on :) just watched the first show on “how dogs changed the world”.
http://www.facebook.com/pages/my-dog-is-family/280645485291180 i’d need to verify with you here.
i totally love dogs folks.
disregard loving dogs or not, the evolution of dogs have changed the human lives.
until this is done, it seems the conclusion that wolf evolution proceeded the same way as the fox experiment suggests is overly speculative.
in the preview they talk about certain breeds being in danger (probably from inbreeding to get the desired look) and they show a pekingese.
for those wolf lovers, the wolf has beautiful pictures and good information, including the efforts regarding the preservation of wolves.
it will be more energetic for me to read your next post.
educational value:10 entertainment value:10 production value: 10 (the dobers in the field w/kids)
time, 7:00 or 8:00, depending on where you live.
the program was great.
if they are children, turn off the tv and learn to spell better.
i met someone who has seizures from a horse riding accident, and they told me the shilo shepherd they got started alerting her on it’s own when a seizure was coming so she can take her meds ahead of time.
o my god !!!!!!!!!!!
“sancisco” part 2 will air 9/19/2010.
i will directly grab your rss feed to stay informed of any updates.
also, i think those poodle show cuts are just ridiculous-
magnificent points altogether, you simply won a logo new reader.
let’s try to educate ourselves enough to leave our opinion in a dignified and accurate manner.
i will bookmark your blog and check again right here regularly.
@rriel theres way too many comments on this page.
jus idk wat to say ther everything
the genetic analysis of peter savolainen of the royal institute of technology in sweden has placed the origins of domesticated dogs — and those of the first dog — in east asia.
its certainly the fact that these dogs are animals and are such unpredicatable.
this lil ugly dog reminds me so much of aaron moses peace dude i love all dogs.
tamar gellar has also studied the complex relationship of dog vs. wolf.
that is definitely great notion dude.iam truly proud of you .
under communism, it’s just the opposite.
in part one, “the rise of the dog,” you’ll learn about  how the domestication of dogs might have taken place, including the theory of  biologist raymond coppinger that it was the animals themselves — and  human trash — that inspired the transformation.
perhaps a similar thesis should be explored with milk-giving animals like cattle, (water) buffalo, goats and even sheep.
i’ll definitely digg it and in my view recommend to my friends.
please proofread, or get an adult who does know how to spell, to help you.
intimately, the article is actually the best on this valuable topic.
yes, i realize i misspelled a couple of words:) edit function would be nice – as english teachers, we know writing is a process, not a product, right:)
i’ve a presentation next week, and i am at the look for such information.
my good wishes/…… i love dogs …………… dogs<3 i love ryan oman<333 i love dogs this is so cute dont you think?
she isn’t the lap dog i hoped for, i guess she still has trust issues from being in the puppy mill for about 6 years, but i still love her like crazy.
we really would like you to be a part of this with us.
sabre only thought of playing.
very good written information.
i think i’ll have to record it.
you’ll also learn how dogs’ finely tuned senses are serving humans and saving lives.
we love our dogs as memeber of the family here!
animal lover go nature!
anyway, i can’t wait to get home each day to my sweet peke.
i can’t wait for part 2.
and that why there here.
we need these dogs, if they were never created what would be sledding?
you appear to know so much about this, like you wrote the book in it or something.
nook, nook nookitdat dog!
i do not really make it a regular habit of doing that.
nature, i love your show, and grew up watching it, but i work on sundays and wednesdays.
for the moment i will, no doubt yield to your issue however wish in the future you actually link your facts better.
this film premiered april 2007.
lol note to barack: illinois seriously needs education funding ; ) d o g – g o d?
and did they pay attention?
so what if you hate dogs?
i believe that is one of the such a lot important info for me.
hi, i feel that i noticed you visited my site so i got here to “go back the choose”.
my dog at home loves me and i love him.
pathetic… and those who hate dogs, what makes you think they like you?
and yet, according to  genetics, all dogs evolved from the savage and wild wolf — in a  transformation that occurred just 15,000 years ago.
my vet said that it’s really common for that to happen – because it’s one of the 14 ancient breeds, most mixed-breed dogs will show the genetic traits of those breeds.
i have a blog with a weapon of choice that i use on my pitbull had u should see him melt.. he.s a legend.
i wish to say that this post is awesome, nice written and include almost all significant infos.
where the hell are their brains… in their feet.
here’s an interesting episode of nature that aired on pbs in 2007 on the subject:
i desire to abide by you .thx underdog!!!!!!!!!!!!!
hi, please come like our facebook fan page on “my dog is family”.
your name: *your email: *friend's name: *friend's email: message: note:
delta dog is a wonderful animal.
i llllllllloooooovvvvvvvveeee dogs!!!!
i would like to consider the chance of saying thanks to you for the professional advice i have often enjoyed viewing your site.
pet the dog love the dog, but do not abuse and provoke the dog because ive seen on take its owners fingers off because he goaded the dog constantly.
so u can see he is very nice… and now u might want to think twice about pits… i raise them and i know the truth pit bulls are a fighting dog and are pecieved as such in the public eye.
we should be thankful they are interested in educational programing.
i think i saw one of the “children” was a 6th grader.
i thought we had progressed past the stereotype of the “big, bad wolf.”
i enjoy studying a submit that can make folks think.
exactly where you actually lost us was on your details.
i would like to consider the chance of saying thanks to you for your expert advice i have continually enjoyed going to your website.
that show was magical!
i learned a lot from this site…thanks pbs!
useful job for bringing something new to the internet!
i’ve ,love dogs since childhood,never been without at least 1 or 2;ithink it’s very interresting to learn of the history of them,and the reasons for their selective breeding processes,why we would breed combinations to suite certain needs,need being the mother of invention,how dare we fool with natuers plan vs. our fancies,yet look at the multitude & diversity of our acheivments .it
the dog and shame and disgrace on the horrible human.
but i find this very leisurely to interpret .
how about posting a comment that aims to help out a bit as oppose to a slamming others from different circumstances and with varying abilities?
don’t lose site of the humanity, afterall, its why we have such a relationship with these animals in the first place.
i was always more of a cat person but from now on i’m a toy dog breed all the way.
i like the encyclopedia of the dog best for this purpose, plus, for those of you wanting to know what a certain breed was that you saw in the program this book and the dog bible are great sources.
i am hoping to present something back and help others such as you aided me.
have you seen people from back?
i luv this picture!!!
i watched both episodes and it made me smile cuz dogs are amazing creation..
realy thank you for starting this up.
i love dogs and have had one or more most of my adult life.
thanx for all of your time & work.
kids are on facebook, not on pbs.
all fields marked with an asterisk (* ) are required.
he mentioned going to pbs.com and finding out how each breed is hard-wired.
i can see where all the different dogs come from.
instead that perhaps it is that the wolf when it hunts can be savage.
if only i have a dog.
if the whole ending is going to be about tearing her apart …..i’m thru.
omfg lol :[ but elena’s dog buffert dieedd :[ she was likee cryingg toddayy and left earrrlyy. !
the most beautiful dog in the world is the wolf, and he is not pulled around by his neck, or nuzzle locked, or chained or put in a cage for hours while humans at work, god love
so nice to find somebody with some original thoughts on this subject.
this was a very informative and entertaining show.
i always watch nature.
you are indeed the best!!!
so are all animals, no matter how they look on the outside.
i enjoy seeing what makes my canines tick.
my top 4 favorite animals are these:wolf, dog, fox, & coyote.
what about people who can’t see?
but, atleast i did noy half 2 wright anymor.
what a wonderful and educational series.
tags: breeds, dogs, wolves
your writing style has been surprised me.
barbara monteith some good books that i have found on wolves and dogs include: the wolf by francesco cesoni and giovani fassoli; the encylopedia of the dog – the definitive visual guide by dr. bruce fogle; and the original dog bible – the definitive source for all things dog edited by kristin mehus roe (bowtie press).
i’m a lover, and am always amazed at what they do for us, and the fabulous creatures they are.
over 400 breeds of dog are recognized around the world, each unique for its  personality, habits, and form.
weâ€™re looking forward towards the commencement of my school research and the complete preparing would never have been complete without surfing your web site.
secondly,they are very useful for us when they are previously tamed.thus they can be our guide, our protector against murder, and also sense.
we should think of not torchoring our dogs like we do at the rate we do now so do me a fav and make your dogs happyall the time
for all you people who think that every post on the internet should be a spelling contest and being a good speller of words makes you some how better,take this!!
but a dog hater is a person in need of help whos mama never loved’em.
add a dog to the family with the understanding of the type of lifestyle each breed requires, and if it does not fit with your lifestyle, do not get a dog!
wats good i am doing a course in england on animals, i love dogs – i own 2 bloodhounds and to be quite honest i do not know what i would do without them….they are so important to me and my family that i do not think anyone who hurts them can be stable.
hi, i would like to watch full video which showed on pbs,org.
i’m looking forward to the second part.
saying thanks will not just be sufficient, for the wonderful clarity in your writing.
<3333xoxopita<3 omfg hey pita!!!
thanks for some other excellent article.
and i would watching more , i want to know more because they all 3 have different skills and different knowledge, they are incredible unique in their ways.
i wrote it off as merely another expense, but i’m going to consider it just as before.
and yet, according to genetics, all dogs evolved from the savage and wild wolf — in a transformation that occurred just 15,000 years ago.
who cares about what’s on the outside?
but im havin my goal of helping them all , rehabilitating them and that.
your show about how dogs changed the world was just great!!!
i’m trying to to find issues to improve my website!i suppose its ok to make use of a few of your concepts!!
trained as a puppy to predict seizures from juvenile diabetes in its owner, it is a true miracle.
i had the joy of having a 70 % wolf-malmut-border collie-white shepard.
dogs help encourage me!!!
many of the comments written here are by children.
in part two, “dogs by design,” you’ll discover how these hard-wired behaviors help different types of dogs, from hounds to herders, excel at different tasks (and why it can sometimes be so difficult to train them to do otherwise).
heya i am for the first time here.
and keep humans to a minimum if you can too.
we request your name and email address so that the person you are recommending the page to knows that you wanted them to see it, and that it is not junk mail.
it’s supposed to be a educational site, not a war-party convention.
how ugly of the human.
i am a christian and we believe we were created by god.
i loved those little guys.
only one problem, i might miss it.
from the tiniest chihuahua to the powerful and massive english mastiff,  modern domesticated dogs come in a bewildering array of shapes and sizes, with  an equally diverse range of temperaments and behaviors.
they forget the potential for damage that these dogs can do.
so why don’t you quit insulting a bunch of kids!
i can’t believe reading some bad reactions.
hey,nature,this looks impresive,but i don’t have a tv.
even my own bichon frise still remains a small bit of her wolf spirit.
the negative use of words like “savage” are the reason that some people believe they should be killed and exterminated.
if i could be of any help to others, iâ€™d personally be ready to help as a result of what i have gained from here.
from the tiniest chihuahua to the powerful and massive english mastiff, modern domesticated dogs come in a bewildering array of shapes and sizes, with an equally diverse range of temperaments and behaviors.
it is intelligent, honest, and eye opening.
they ask you ( muhammed s.a.w ) as to what is allowed to them.
you’re no different from these animals, or better yet dogs are way above you haters… i love dogs, my dogs love me just as much, poor people who haven’t had a great friend like dogs, i wonder if you have human friends at all… dogs are beautiful.
well with your permission let me to grasp your rss feed to stay updated with impending post.
ray coppinger has one of the greatest understandings of canine development.
can you put the full episode online?i would really appreciate that.
each has some explanation of the evolution of wolves.
and i hope that their labor day is going great!
there is visibly a bundle to know about this.
perhaps it was as profound an intellectual breakthrough for these animals to generalize the notion of creatures needing nurturance from their own species to humans as it was for humans to understand in a cultural sense that their fellow creatures could be useful in other capacities besides sources of meat.
there are lots of theories about where dogs came from.
how in de hex did we gets such lil dogs from such big doggies?
under capitalism, man exploits man.
4 7/10″ stiletto heel.
so as a dog owner, please do not expect your border collie to lie quietly at your feet!!
we r just a new generation not stupid.
i really appreciated reviewing it and will discuss it with everyone.
thanks nature, you got brain!
hi there could i use some of the content here in this site if i reference you with a link back to your site?
i especially love herding breeds.
we could have a hyperlink change contract among us!
evolution does not discount christianity.
how cute can you get!!
if this is the case then why did you watch the show?
i have watched them hunt in the wild before.
all i want in life is dogs and there is no such thing as a bad dog.
they are, man’s best friend..
dogs are the thing that makes many people happy.
my brother recommended i may like this website.
why isn’t it online or on demand like all the others?
despite the plethora of new shapes and sizes, dogs have retained the instincts bred into their ancestors by thousands of years of work: the urge to herd or hunt, to dig and to guard.
jake the guinea pig was apparently under the impression that i’d abandoned him forever.
i’d like to see more posts like this .
they are loyal and nurturing, and have a complex social structure.
what might you suggest in regards to your post that you simply made a few days in the past?
maybe ‘englishteacher’ needs to do a bit more work?
i would like to order part i and part iiof dogs that changed the world i love puppy wuppy dogs!!!
sure, wolves are not tame and gentle with people, but they are extremely gentle with their pack and show all the finest character traits of modern dogs.
i feel so sorry for dogs, in that humans never have respected them enough to keep them as they were,but wanted to change them to their suitability.
it lloked like a rhodesian ridgeback only much shorter.
thanks for this valuable message.
i really dont understand why some people feel the need to be so argumentative.
however wanna commentary on few normal issues, the site taste is perfect, the articles is in point of fact nice : d. just right task, cheers just want to say your article is as astonishing.
what i would like to put to your consideration is that they are not saying the wolf in general is a savage beast.
does any-body know???
it was completely easy to navigate and it was easy to look for the information i needed!
in short dog are the complement of humain being.
ok like i have 12 dogs, 10 rabbits, 9 cats, 7 hamsters, 5 koi fish, 3 turtles, and two ponies.
i believe that i would be very disappointed in another breed after experiencing the love and intelligence of our friend sabre.
this may be difficult to see in the u.s. where cows are kept under factory-like, highly rationalized arrangements, but it becomes clearer with subsistence farmers that keep a “family cow” that is can be seen to be bound to the family by affection as well as practical considerations.
vicious dog symdrome.
there’s an issue with your site in web explorer, might check this?
i personally think that wolves somehow decreased in size and changed into different breeds.
for those of you with the unnecessarily harsh comments, this world really isn’t in need of more critics…..we have enough.
i’m hoping to give one thing back and aid others like you aided me.
most likely you haven’t met any of us.
we witness the very unique relationship between dogs and their humans everyday yet it never ceases to amaze me how incredibly loyal each is to the other and how much each will adapt it’s natural behavior to the other.
information you supply on this page will only be used to send this email.
at 60 now, my education still goes on.
so i wish i could contain a special and secret cabin for them so they would live healthy, and happy forever.
hey elsa, why don’t you lay off!
he was a very integrated part of our family and his feeling were very easily hurt with just a curt word.
can you tell i’m a wolf and dog lover?
and please keep up the gratifying work.
luv cats dogs are ugly
this is really a wonderful website.
you guys need some lives.
i surprised with the research you made to create this actual post extraordinary.
too bad my wife hates them.
but, that’s actually beyond the point – you know as well as i do that people posting here are adults.
the wolves are so cool!
throughout this great design of things you’ll secure an a for effort.
to imply that everyone should be proofreading their contributions is ridiculous!
this is an informal blog.
i work at the humane society in illinois.
for example,bind peoples use dogs to direct them.police men use also dog to investigate or looking for a drug among gang in usa neiberhood.
i hate no one peace out im in science b.a.f we are studdying selective breeding abnd i saw someone said they hate dogs how can u there so sweet!
no one likes a know-it-all.
no solicitations or advertisements will be allowed.
how about you business folks give a little donation to pbs?!
and he is very protective he loves ppl he has never bit anyone.
most humans are not nice.
they thought dogs were why people lived.
this was so boring,i wanted to go to sleep.
i wish they would have spent a little time on puppy mills.
the clarity on your publish is just cool and that i could suppose you are an expert on this subject.
sorry we missed part ii.
in general, dogs should be left in their natural state.
thank you a bunch for sharing this with all of us you actually realize what you’re talking approximately!
for example how if they wanted a small dog with long hair then they would breead a chiwawa with a shitzu and it would be a small dog with long hait.
and i hope to never lose them..
now, truth be told i have not had the oppurtunity to thoroughly look over this article.
its like you read my mind!
:) @caralyne lavinne
looking forward to viewing the 2nd part in this series just reading these posts…now i know why i communicte better with dogs..
they are tough cookies.
excellent items from you, man.
the video is awsome the biggingis awsome i loved the video adout the dogs it realy touched me but made you should have put more facts about muts and thins like that but other than that i loved looking and learning about so of the facts.
all de other dogfs r ugly as f***!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
i thought that the history of the pekingese was especially interesting.
thanks for fantastic information i used to be looking for this information for my mission.
this website is something that is needed on the web, someone with a little originality.
this film premiered april 2007.tags: breeds, dogs, wolves *
they r threatened and hurt just cause how the ppl raise them… well have u ever raised one well if u r a nice person u will have a very nice pit bull my dog bull is 3 and a half
if the russian experiments shows that breeding for tameness results in dogs in 10 years of selective breeding, why is that all domestic dogs have come from wolves and none have come from foxes?.
this is by far the best looking site i’ve seen!
pbs thanks for the excellent programs!!!!!
i am not sure what i would’ve implemented without the actual tricks discussed by you directly on such a topic.
made in italy,100% best quality and lowest price guarantee!
where else may just anyone get that type of info in such an ideal manner of writing?
i think the akc and other kennel clubs ought to completely revise their breed and show standards for the good of the dogs.
until we’ve made great strides to remedy the deplorable state of our schools, please quit scolding children for their poor grammar and spelling and look for a more positive way that you can impact the situation.
he is clinging and crying.
people may say that you are ugly, but does it matter to you?
i am grateful for the help and wish you recognize what a great job you’re carrying out teaching many people through your websites.
i loved this episode about dogs, especially the segment about the silver foxes.
this is a valid interpretation and one extremely close to the one i am about to suggest.
however, you command get got an shakiness over that you want be turning in the following.
but the show was awsome.
fantastic layout and great content!!
they have powers to help the world.
dogs are also god’s creation and they are man’s bestfriend.
get off your high horse and give us a break!
i also think everyone should realise is that thisa page is not for slandering off others for their level of ability in literature.
i came across this board and i in finding it really helpful & it helped me out much.
despite the plethora of new shapes and sizes, dogs have retained the  instincts bred into their ancestors by thousands of years of work: the urge to  herd or hunt, to dig and to guard.
wow, can’t wait to take a look.
nookitdatdog nookin at u nookin back at he.. ,,,,dats dog talk.
there is so much about wolves that is admirable from a human point of view, and they are magnificent animals who deserve our respect and protection.
hey may i reference some of the information from this site if i reference you with a link back to your site?
i did a dna test on my dog and the main result that came up was chow chow.
i was having difficulties watching part 1, cause it had no pause botton.
i’m in no hurry on this, but maybe when i’m really old (but still mentally and physically competent) after having a wonderful dinner of steak or seafood (or both), dessert, and of course some good wine.
were is dee pitbulls n dis?
:-( btw, i would like to introduce a site that helped me create a good content for a sites exposure.
i love dogs and i think we can study some amazing things about dis eath dat we live into if we can just place close attention to them.
:[ mr e was beinggg soooo meann to her about it!
there are many, if you have they just have never been loved.
if i may be of any help to others, i’d be happy to help through what i have discovered from here.
us humans would have never made it through the world without them.
nature’s two-part special dogs that changed the world tells the epic story of the wolf’s evolution, how “man’s best friend” changed human society and how we in turn have radically transformed dogs.