yet, no parental  action has a greater impact on children.
children's expectations of you and your ex marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter  is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and grief.
of  particular importance is helping them see that the loss of their mother is not  their fault.
do you recognise yourself in any of that?
losing a spouse for whatever reason can create all kinds of feelings in a  man.
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
you want to love and cherish her  again.
e. renkel it is much easier to become a father than to be one. ~kent
read more... manage your portion sizes and take the following tips into consideration.
read more... dads and breastfeeding breast is best!!!
but during those bleary early weeks,  when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out  where to start.
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of  the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile  environment of the vagina.
william klatte has written an insightful book calledlive-away dads.
when an affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
some dads deal with the stress of this situation by holing up or binge eating.
we can work this out.
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with  someone besides your partner?
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other  would be useless.
playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
yes, fathers are vulnerable to similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.
"noble fathers have  noble children."
there are strong physical and emotional impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
read more... dads play with kids can make a big difference
dads don't get a lot of credit for being soothing, nurturing types.
will your baby be born with ten fingers and ten toes?
men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
often, our children are totally unprepared for having a single  dad as their primary caregiver.
read on for some advice and reassurance that  there is a sex life after baby!
men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often from their dad.
resist the temptation to subsist on junk food.
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only the father smokedread more...
individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is also very individual.
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility  to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children  from adult conflicts.
children need to see that their dad is confident and optimistic about the future.
daily mail (dailymail.co.uk) a father's promise to sacrifice (fatherhood.about.com)
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed in this article.
relationships with children are much like plants, they need constant nourishing!
if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in denial or not paying attention!
the effects of divorce on children and how to cope
trying to get ahead of and keep up with the laundry can be a big task.
read more... quick discipline strategies a good laugh helps break the tension.
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!read more...
pending fatherhood can make you think about your family's roots.
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!
there are strong physical and emotional  impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your children.
then discuss it with your child or children.
i  really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day  left me feeling empty.
encourage them to talk with you—if not with you, create a situation where they can talk to a trusted adult.
of  course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
writing them down in a journal or in a password-protected computer file can really be a good way of looking objectively.
ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use  violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
however, when you are  away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily through the activities and time spent with your children.
the  professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence  suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is  as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.”
can men get  something like the baby blues as well as women?
instead of backing the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
read more... five worries about fathering our daughters
you'd be odd if you weren't afraid.
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear,  you're only normal.
(pinnaclelife.co.nz) chores | information center | education.com (education.com) be a better dad (psychcentral.com)
do you want to use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your heartfelt affection for your children?
with a little thought, time, emotional strength and help, you can make this very difficult transition to single fatherhood a little more bearable - and if you've advice for me dude, i would welcome it!related articles whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their children.
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your  shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy  development of their children and that positive father involvement has a  beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
two decades ago it was unusual for a  father to be there when his child was born.
and even through attempts at  reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
read more... why tell stories?
non-violent relationships: a role for fathers good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they  lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their  children.
we must understand  these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work  effectively with fathers and families.
but they are not silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to fathers.
illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
parental smoking is a significant issue.
that’s exceedingly rare.
many dads i meet  share this mistaken idea: read more... bonding with the new baby
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no heart-to-hearts.
often, as others you love see you struggle, they will ask if they can help.
and at night, there are lots of temptations  like tv and the computer to distract you.
read more... it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
before the baby is born, you may find  that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that  they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
creative stories are a chance to build  a great and loving memory.
they can guide you where to go.
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new coping skills and improve how your family works together.
about  half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including  chromosomal problems.
dealing with miscarriage miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
a lot of routine chores are within the capability of the children.
in a study of  smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months  old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking  mother).
over the years  my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has  developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different  families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and  beliefs.
read more... be there for her!
whether or not your children say it or show it, you  can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around  it.
read more... not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do pass through the same stages.
and if you are not used to separating clothes for washing, ask an experienced laundry-doer for some help.
so the short answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of the expectant mother.
your attitude will make a huge difference in how they feel and cope now and later.
helping the kids as adults, we have at least learned some coping mechanisms in our life to deal with change.
single, separated and divorced fathers
if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
yes, fathers are vulnerable to  similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can  become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.
ever felt that your anger was getting  the best of you?
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the  effects ofdivorce on children.
read more... is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a new single dad with children at home?
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation: read more...
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a  daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing,  cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
get the kids involved.
achore chart can really help with reminding them and keeping them accountable.
read more... face your fear.
get comfortable with yourself and it will go a long way to your healing  efforts for yourself and your family.
read more... help your child cope with divorce many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
counselling is a major factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
sit and read a book for 10 minutes.
here's how it's done: read more... activities with infants as your child grows older she will want different things from her  engagement with you.
fortunately, most blended families are able  to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
with time, you and your baby will develop your own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
will i ever sleep again?
whether it's you, your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
many children will open up and want to talk to dad or others about what has happened.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial  elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
read  more... do you have to be at your baby's birth?
read more... infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief, fear, guilt, shame.
fathers play a critical role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from abuse and neglect.
the birth - tips for dads
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child  development as motherhood!
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and  grief.
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly  stand to have the old man around.
or maybe you've been dreaming about your grandparents?
it is generally accepted that children learn both good and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was  astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or  excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope with the divorce of their parents.
all children deserve a chance to grow up unafraid.
that's one of the reasons we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
do what you say you will do, and don't make a promise you are not committed to keep.
but if you ask most dads, you'll find that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own special ways to soothe their babies.
read more... it's up to you!
should you stay together for the  sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your  kids?
there are many times i just  don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in  the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working  away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get  from my girls.
consider setting aside a couple of days a week for laundry.
in a study of smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking mother).
the list of potential adjustments is long, and  it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed  in this article.
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!read more...
once the kids are up and around,  its harder to make time for you.
below is a list of some behaviors that children should be protected from.
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and  especially fathers.
sometimes relatives, clergy, adult friends or therapists can help if they won't talk with you.
some dads deal with the stress of this  situation by holing up or binge eating.
are you concerned that your behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
but during those bleary early weeks, when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out where to start.
read more... many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
get a grip on your  feelings.
after all,  we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in  the process.
things you definitely don’t want to expose your children to.
the professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.
the registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may threaten to tear your family apart.
swallow your pride, recognize that you can't do it all, and express  gratitude for the help of others.
under the monday and thursday tabs, he put cards for  vacuuming; under the saturday tab was a card for cleaning the bathroom.
and, when you consider the benefits, why not?
as a  dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may  open a floodgate of dreams.
what is the role of  the father who is present at the birth of his child?
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the  new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
achore  chart can really help with reminding them and keeping them accountable.
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily  through the activities and time spent with your children.
you'd  be odd if you weren't afraid.
your  attitude will make a huge difference in how they feel and cope now and later.
for example, one daughter may receive love best when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her something.
do you want them to connect one heart to another?
read more we have an explicit commitment to gender equity and the un convention on the rights of the child (crc).
children in blended families may at first  resist the many changes they face.
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they  can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
under the monday and thursday tabs, he put cards for vacuuming; under the saturday tab was a card for cleaning the bathroom.
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a poster.
men are even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses, partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during and after divorce.
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your  children.
will your baby be born with ten  fingers and ten toes?
and they love grandparents.
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
these days, for urban dads it's  more unusual if he isn't there.
you haven't had a real conversation for weeks.
like any mystery, the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining, baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at once...
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study,  published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t  “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a  life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word go:read more...
we must understand these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work effectively with fathers and families.
read  more... managing your anger ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
read on for some advice and reassurance that there is a sex life after baby!read more...
there are many times i just don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get from my girls.
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be  thinking, feeling and needing from you.
it seems some parents  can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for  their children.
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
play is "the work of children".
consistency and honesty will help them  find the courage to trust again.
the best way to build trust with the children is  to make and keep promises.
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation:read more...
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with someone besides your partner?
this could mean that you're worried that  pregnancy will damage your sex life.
having talked to a number of single dads who have successfully negotiated this transition with their children, let me offer the following recommendations.
get up an hour earlier than the kids and make time for exercise, reading, getting organized and maybe even some meditation.
have your own chore chart.
they can guide you  where to go.
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the effects ofdivorce on children.
there are not many things more discouraging than having a nice white shirt being suddenly pink because it was washed in the wrong temperature water with the wrong colors.
but they are not silly, unnecessary,  or insignificant to fathers.
in fact, it may be a major barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
open communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
read more... prevention of hiv transmission to infants many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child  treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
wordsworthread more... is playing with dolls manly?
however, when you are away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
what is the role of the father who is present at the birth of his child?
read more... two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other would be useless.
a father is the first man his daughter knows.
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
understanding something about those stages can  help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually  just a part of growing up.
men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open  but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often  from their dad.
get a grip on your feelings.
behavior contracts - a tool for fathers (fatherhood.about.com)
dad's at a distance - working away relationships with children are much like plants, they need  constant nourishing!
activities for dads and kids playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
this page contains resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study, published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
over the years my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and beliefs.
do you want those words to have real meaning to  your child?
yet, no parental action has a greater impact on children.
read more... 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner she is scared of me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen again -
understand how a marriage can be rebuilt after an affair.
in fact, it may be a major  barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
but  it is important to help them deal with their feelings and frustrations.
lack of  sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers  and mothers...
one new single dad i know tossed all of the kids' socks and bought 12 matching pairs for each child so mating socks became easy.
the list of potential adjustments is long, and it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
what should be first on my list, and how do i even begin tor get my arms around the rest?
divorce: your child's perspective children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during  and after divorce.
fortunately, most blended families are able to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
get comfortable with yourself and it will go a long way to your healing efforts for yourself and your family.
i had phoned my  wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
for whatever reason their mom is  no longer at home, your children's trust is likely shaken.
once the initial  settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
read more... healing family conflicts families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems  that create conflict and stress.
let them know that you are ok and that with time, your family will reach a new level of comfort and routine.
the various sections on this page  should give you some basic reassurance!
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means much more than the textbook definition.
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
dads love to have fun with their kids, at least the great ones do.
investing one early morning hour in yourself can make a marked difference.
can men get something like the baby blues as well as women?
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but the rewards are great.
in some measures, father-love is more important.
situations of family and relationship violence impact couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
your job is to keep them talking and to  be a good listener.
as a dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may open a floodgate of dreams.
to help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
i have watched this closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been separated and preparing for divorce.
one of the biggest challenges newly single dads tell me about is the need  to establish new routines when the other adult at home is not there any more.
keep lots of vegetables in your life.
but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose it...' do you recognise yourself in any of that?
and make sure that you eat right.
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way  to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
you can also find other  dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
after another process called capacitation (an  explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough  outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization  and conception.
keep lots of vegetables in your  life.
these days, for urban dads it's more unusual if he isn't there.
read more... marriage counseling illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting  — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
learn to be a gracious receiver of their  offers.
for many couples, being together is what feels  right.
if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying  around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
if so, consider strengthening 'i love you' with the following suggestions.
walk, run, hit the gym—just stay active.
sometimes the poorest man leaves his children the richest inheritance.
family therapy can help your family weather  such storms.
it's you she wants in the delivery room be there for her!
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
find ways to keep anger under  control as you work with your children.
when an  affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed  — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
she's not made of porcelain!
swallow your pride, recognize that you can't do it all, and express gratitude for the help of others.
will you love your baby?
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of  the date of birth.
trying to get ahead of and keep up  with the laundry can be a big task.
these hurdles may seem silly,  unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
creative stories are a chance to build a great and loving memory.
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to  the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that  dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children  and themselves.
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile environment of the vagina.
and at night, there are lots of temptations like tv and the computer to distract you.
read more... blockages.
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts and heal wounds.
and even through attempts at reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to  soothe your screaming newborn!!!
consider your strengths and weaknesses and find ways to compensate for the things you have a hard time with.
there  have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on  children.
after another process called capacitation (an explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization and conception.
once the initial settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
writing them down in a journal or in a password-protected computer  file can really be a good way of looking objectively.
will you be a good dad?
”read more... many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
facts about men's fertility men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
this could mean that you're worried that pregnancy will damage your sex life.
children love their parents and want  to be with them.
if work takes you away from your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
and if you  are not used to separating clothes for washing, ask an experienced laundry-doer  for some help.
it will take a lot of the stress out  of these routine duties.
make time for exercise, even if you have to do it with one or more of the kids.
about half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including chromosomal problems.
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you believe society expects of a male parent.
one dad i know got one of those  little binders that hold punched 3 x 5 index cards with dividers for different  days of the week.
so here are a few tips to help you make it  through those (short) nights.
you will find a need to take a deep look inside and be ready for this new challenge.
there have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on children.
what dads-to-be dream about could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
consider early mornings.
of course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
dig where you stand - kids family history activity kids love talking!
be it gardening together, singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help them to develop into happy healthy children.
that belief is of little  use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
learn to be a gracious receiver of their offers.
read  more... listen to her - and then listen some more girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
whether or not your children say it or show it, you can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around it.
consider your strengths  and weaknesses and find ways to compensate for the things you have a hard time  with.
a small percentage of men have a blockage in their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate fluid.
read more... fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters a lot for kids!
fathers play a critical  role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from  abuse and neglect.
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for the sake of the kids.
miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
so why should they accept it from any other man?
the adjustments for dad, mum and kids are major.
our best solution for this natural by-product of humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in  harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
the foundations of the debate about fatherhood are changing  (fatherhoodworld.com) boy's chore chart (prototypemama.wordpress.com) being dad daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
then discuss it  with your child or children.
they let their daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the norm.
read more... do you use domestic violence?
a small percentage of men have a blockage in  their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate  fluid.
~mark twain father! - to god himself we cannot give a holier name.
it can cause an  exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in  turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm now than ever.
stepfathering stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a  situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
related articles "i'm not tired, can i stay up and clean?"
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first, that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a  challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
open  communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and  patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
helping the kids as adults, we have at least learned some coping mechanisms in our life to  deal with change.
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use  abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do  it
there are not many things more discouraging than having a nice  white shirt being suddenly pink because it was washed in the wrong temperature  water with the wrong colors.
read more... how to be more involved with your baby
blended families stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm  now than ever.
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word  go: read more... children's ways of love individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is  also very individual.
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be thinking, feeling and needing from you.
discipline is all about modifying  behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means  much more than the textbook definition.
are you concerned that your  behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
make time  for exercise, even if you have to do it with one or more of the kids.
remember that as difficult as it may be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
sex and the new dad how long until we ...?
read  more... how to adjust to life as a single father is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a  new single dad with children at home?
often, our children are totally unprepared for having a single dad as their primary caregiver.
this page contains  resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
that’s  exceedingly rare.
and most  of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be involved in your child's life.
you want to love and cherish her again.
remember that as difficult as it may  be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of  their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
after all, we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a  poster.
losing a spouse for whatever reason can create all kinds of feelings in a man.
investing one early morning hour in yourself can make a marked  difference.
wordsworth read more... real dads play dolls is playing with dolls manly?
she studied a group of 131 children and  their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25  years.
do you want those words to have real meaning to your child?
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts  and heal wounds.
infection, injury, congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest  wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say,  "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?" read more... can men get the baby blues?
read more... how to share in your partner's pregnancy face your fear.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose  it...'
lack of sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers and mothers...
family therapy can help families identify and resolve problems.
chores like cleaning, sweeping, vacuuming and  more are not beyond their skill level if you teach them what you expect.
the  registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point  for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
others will clam up or get busy being  supportive to suppress their feelings.
situations of family and relationship violence impact  couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
often, as others you love see you struggle,  they will ask if they can help.
as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be  involved in your child's life.
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than what anyone else tells her!read more...
counselling is a major  factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv  testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the  liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
that’s a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship  with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
so as you help your children adjust, consider  the following suggestions.
in the  twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard  many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
walk,  run, hit the gym—just stay active.
it is generally accepted that children learn both good  and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
read more... 5 myths of fatherhood
as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be  controlled.
infidelity: mending your marriage after an affair infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief,  fear, guilt, shame.
read more... how long until we ...?
are you  worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only  the father smoked read more...
~ euripides info single fathers how to adjust to life as a single father how to adjust to life as a single father tweet is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a  new single dad with children at home?
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set  the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than  what anyone else tells her!
and yet dads often  feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge  getting there.
read more... i have been violent or abusive and i need help 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner she is scared of  me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen  again -
for example, one daughter may receive love best  when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a  set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her  something.
whether mom betrayed  them by leaving or whether she died, they will not be very trusting, and, in  their mind, for good reason.
if there is, i can't imagine it.
next time you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their granparents.
but if you ask most dads, you'll find  that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own  special ways to soothe their babies.
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of the date of birth.
it can cause an exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
next time  you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their  granparents.
dads don't get a lot of credit for  being soothing, nurturing types.
our best solution for this natural by-product of  humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your  friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
set aside time for yourself.
with a little thought, time, emotional strength and help, you can make this  very difficult transition to single fatherhood a little more bearable - and if  you've advice for me dude, i would welcome it!
here's how it's done:read more... as your child grows older she will want different things from her engagement with you.
as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
whether it's you,  your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family  therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
if so, consider strengthening 'i love  you' with the following suggestions.
that's one of the reasons  we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
tips on stress set aside time for yourself.
there are times when too  much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
you will find a need to take  a deep look inside and be ready for this new challenge.
but it is certainly much harder, and  it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children  that he needs to.
read more... ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
if there is, i can't  imagine it.
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
common fertility problems for men blockages.
these hurdles may seem silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than  to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
fathers and smoking parental smoking is a significant issue.
like any mystery,  the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining,  baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at  once...
men are  even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses,  partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
of particular importance is helping them see that the loss of their mother is not their fault.
whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are similar...
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best  to help dads bond with their babies.
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and especially fathers.
but, it may be a while.
consistency and honesty will help them find the courage to trust again.
is he a labor coach,  advocate or partner?
dealing with anger - your own and your child's divorce can bring out the worst in people.
your family can be your greatest source of  support, comfort and love.
things you definitely don’t want to  expose your children to.
family therapy can help families  identify and resolve problems.
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may  threaten to tear your family apart.
read more... families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems that create conflict and stress.
most newly single dads i know struggle to know where to start.
as  we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly stand to have the old man around.
one new single dad i know tossed all of the  kids' socks and bought 12 matching pairs for each child so mating socks became  easy.
stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply  involves creating a new branch.
every  day he opened the binder to the right tab and knew what he had to get done that  day.
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to soothe your screaming newborn!!!
and yet dads often feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge getting there.
they let their  daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the  norm.
family therapy can help your family weather such storms.
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting in an early miscarriage.
sex education: how to talk to children about sex and sexuality  (socyberty.com) women really are better at multi-tasking then men... and working mothers  spend ... -
understanding something about those stages can help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually just a part of growing up.
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear, you're only normal.
before the baby is born, you may find that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
read more... five commandments for today's family man two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the  proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
what should  be first on my list, and how do i even begin tor get my arms around the rest?
if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in  denial or not paying attention!
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do it
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death  or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro  long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and  life changing task.
find a simple system and stick to it.
it will take a lot of the stress out of these routine duties.
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting  in an early miscarriage.
dads love to have fun with  their kids, at least the great ones do.
what's up with single parents and life insurance??
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no  heart-to-hearts.
that belief is of little use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
do what you say you will do, and don't make a  promise you are not committed to keep.
what's that?read more...
try to agree with your ex the following.
in most men, 15 to 45  million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only  400 survive after a man ejaculates.
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child development as motherhood!
many dads i meet share this mistaken idea:read more...
so the short  answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of  the expectant mother.
get up an hour earlier than the kids  and make time for exercise, reading, getting organized and maybe even some  meditation.
every day he opened the binder to the right tab and knew what he had to get done that day.
if work takes you away from  your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and  her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
your family can be your greatest source of support, comfort and love.
(motherhoodmania.wordpress.com)
if your kids are a little older, they can do their own with a little training.
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self  control--we can't lose ours in the process.
once the kids are up and around, its harder to make time for you.
two decades ago it was unusual for a father to be there when his child was born.
encourage them to talk with you—if not with you,  create a situation where they can talk to a trusted adult.
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you  believe society expects of a male parent.
so, given  the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions  for tackling this important task successfully.
children need to see that their dad is  confident and optimistic about the future.
but not everyone feels the same.
many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with their children.
if you are like almost every other new father you are not alone!
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first,  that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
it takes special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
read more... every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his daughter’s life!
is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a new single dad with children at home?
for whatever reason their mom is no longer at home, your children's trust is likely shaken.
whether mom betrayed them by leaving or whether she died, they will not be very trusting, and, in their mind, for good reason.
divorce can bring out the worst in people.
to  help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william  wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing, cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of  domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
it's my child - and i'm proud to be his dad!!!
making the most of visits with the kids many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an  often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with  their children.
and while you now in a very real sense have to be the principle support for the kids, you can't be all they need without a little self care.
you can also find other dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
read more... is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married to the mother of his child?
or maybe you've been dreaming about your  grandparents?
read more... tell your kids you love them!
you haven't had a real conversation  for weeks.
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new  coping skills and improve how your family works together.
it seems some parents can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for their children.
many children will open up and want to talk to  dad or others about what has happened.
so as you help your children adjust, consider the following suggestions.
registering baby's birth
is he a labor coach, advocate or partner?
i had phoned my wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
make time for introspection.
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
about 200 million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
are you worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?read more... there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
if your kids  are a little older, they can do their own with a little training.
read more... a good laugh helps break the tension.
infection, injury,  congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
and most of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
sometimes relatives,  clergy, adult friends or therapists can help if they won't talk with you.
children in blended families may at first resist the many changes they face.
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but  the rewards are great.
the screaming and crying will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved rest.
read more by now you should have noticed changes in your fitness and strength as well as in your body.
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
instead of backing  the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
will labour go smoothly?
discipline is all about modifying behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
the various sections on this page should give you some basic reassurance!read more... could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
that’s  a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
the best way to build trust with the children is to make and keep promises.
your job is to keep them talking and to be a good listener.
a lot of routine chores are within  the capability of the children.
in the twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
do it!read more... waaaaah!!!
chores like cleaning, sweeping, vacuuming and more are not beyond their skill level if you teach them what you expect.
it takes  special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply involves creating a new branch.
i'm in control so you are safe.
one dad i know got one of those little binders that hold punched 3 x 5 index cards with dividers for different days of the week.
staying together for the sake of the kids which is better for your kids?
for many couples, being together is what feels right.
read more... which is better for your kids?
read more... how your child's behaviour changes as they grow not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do  pass through the same stages.
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children and themselves.
read more... one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate discipline for their children.
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope  with the divorce of their parents.
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best to help dads bond with their babies.
she studied a group of 131 children and their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25 years.
storytelling made easy why tell stories?
should you stay together for the sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your kids?
in it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on when you don’t know what to do next.
be it gardening together,  singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the  ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help  them to develop into happy healthy children.
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your  marriage.
read more... 10 dad-tested ways to soothe a crying baby waaaaah!!!
so here are a few tips to help you make it through those (short) nights.
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say, "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?"read more...
below is a list of some behaviors that  children should be protected from.
let them know that you are ok and  that with time, your family will reach a new level of comfort and routine.
but it is certainly much harder, and it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children that he needs to.
there are times when too much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too hard.
we support the importance of mothering and mothers’ rights to children, and we highlight the importance of parents working co-operatively for the interests of children.
i really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day left me feeling empty.
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as  all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
others will clam up or get busy being supportive to suppress their feelings.
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever  realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!
children love their parents and want to be with them.
read more... sometimes the poorest man leaves his children the richest inheritance.
i have watched this  closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been  separated and preparing for divorce.
read more... kids love talking!
the screaming and crying  will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved  rest.
myths surrounding children and divorce
do you want to  use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your  heartfelt affection for your children?
disciplining for dads one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate  discipline for their children.
at least one-third of all children will be part of a stepfamily before they reach age 18.
make sure you don't go there.
daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are  similar...
but it is important to help them deal with their feelings and frustrations.
about 200  million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children  who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for  the sake of the kids.
there is growing evidence  that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that  positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
read more... dads hold up half the sky fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters  a lot for kids!
make and keep promises.
in  it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on  when you don’t know what to do next.
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and life changing task.
married fathers is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married  to the mother of his child?
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children from adult conflicts.
with time, you and your baby will develop your  own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
raising your daughter every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his  daughter’s life!
one of the biggest challenges newly single dads tell me about is the need to establish new routines when the other adult at home is not there any more.
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your marriage.
at least one-third of all children will be part of a  stepfamily before they reach age 18.
and while you now in a very real sense have to be the principle support  for the kids, you can't be all they need without a little self care.
in most men, 15 to 45 million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only 400 survive after a man ejaculates.
having talked to a number of single dads who have successfully negotiated this  transition with their children, let me offer the following recommendations.