located in downtown paris, the cours rougemont is right in the middle of historical, cultural, artistic and economic areas of the french capital, such as museums, hostels, and restaurants.
we hope this web-site will give you an insight into what learning french in-country means.
our own in-house on-line magazine ipm@g keeps you informed of events happening in paris and contains practical addresses while keeping you up-to-date with the latest on the french language.
the courses we offer include private instruction, group  instruction, a combination of private and group instruction, and our  ever-popular immersion course.
whether you just want to be able to order "un  beaujolais nouveau" or whether you really want to get to grips with the  language, cactus has a range of french courses in france to suit all your needs  and budgets.
french in france also offers french culture courses such as wine and cooking in antibes, art in french in paris, french language vacation for parents and kids on the riviera as well as long programs combining paris and the cote d'azur, french and law in paris, french and tourism in paris, and a budget package including accommodation in antibes.
our team of course  advisors will help you choose the programme which is right for you.
email: info@lutece-langue.com oise intensive language schools the teaching philosophy of oise is based on the intensive language course.
unlike most other language schools in paris, verlaine langue limits its french classes to small groups, with a maximum of 7 persons to a class: this gets you speaking and understanding practical french from day one.
france langue is situated near the  champs elysees and the eiffel tower and has expandable classroom space around  the place victor hugo.
they  know how to get you talking french.
the charming cafes and  shops of the place victor hugo are also nearby, and the school's central  location makes it easy to get anywhere else in the city.
location: paris email: enquiry@cactuslanguage.com cfilc language school a few minutes from parc de la villette,  cfilc welcomes you to its friendly, ideal environment created to encourage you  to learn french.
the charming cafes and shops of the place victor hugo are also nearby, and the school's central location makes it easy to get anywhere else in the city.
we have immersion focused courses taught by experienced and qualified native french teachers, with a comprehensive and balanced curriculum integrating all aspects of the language: reading, writing, speaking, listening, grammar, phonetics and vocabulary.
our courses combine  linguistic instruction and cultural workshops in order to share knowledge of  french and spanish language and culture, and to help promote their diffusion  throughout the world.
the french language programs in paris are designed to immerse participants in the french language.
that's why our teaching material is centered on actual french  situations and enriched by numerous documents, including songs, newspaper and  magazine articles, videos, games, etc.
for further immersion in the language and culture, french culture and civilization lectures, cinema, and guided excursions are held at no additional cost.
the headquarters are situated in the sorbonne university, and about 9,000 students attend the institution each year, from all over the world.
this is the same content from the hardcopy editions,  but with the text in pdf format and the audio in mp3 format.
the variety of topics covered by this material (oral and written expression, grammar, listening and reading comprehension, pronunciation) enables us to design a program perfectly suited to the needs of any given group.
our professors guide each learner throughout the  course with maximum language use.
a wide range of french lessons is available, depending on each language school : general french courses (standard, intensive, super-intensive), international language certificate preparation course (delf/dalf, tcf, tef), business french or french culture classes.
buy the fsi french course from the digital download store and receive it today!
location: paris email: inst.roug.sup@wanadoo.fr langue onze langue onze is a small school teaching french language to foreigners, created in 1981 in the 11th arrondissement in paris.
it is possible to obtain us college/university credits; the school is registered as a private institution of higher education.
location: paris, nice, chambery, bordeaux, and annecy email: info@wle-france.com vis-à-vis vis-à-vis is a specialist organisation providing french language courses in france, belgium and canada.
accord is accredited by csn in northern european countries as well as bildungsurlaub in several german regions, and registered as a private institute of high education, is a member of souffle, maison de la france, the french youth tourism club, and elite.
one positive  advantage of this for you is that we know the schools we use in these countries  by heart, which means we can give you clear and objective advice.
without omitting written skills, we focus on conversation and its use in every  day french.
with specialized programs: business french, hotel and tourism  industry french, french art history, french and french cuisine, teacher  training, 50+, a la carte group programs and internships in french companies.
oise is committed to its policy of teaching in small groups (1:1 or 1:4 or 1:8 per class) to ensure that students benefit from individual attention even within a group environment.
without omitting written skills, we focus on conversation and its use in every day french.
whether you just want to be able to order "un beaujolais nouveau" or whether you really want to get to grips with the language, cactus has a range of french courses in france to suit all your needs and budgets.
the executive school is located in a charming mansion house close to place de clichy.
location: paris email: info@visavis.org downloads | spanish | asl schools | internet radio | internet tv | press releases | language news | school and library | advertiseorder info | faq | privacy policy | email us
each of our programs includes everything you need from personal advisors and onsite staff to credit transfer and housing.
location: paris, nice email: paris@france-langue.fr esl - sejours linguistiques esl - sejours linguistiques is specialised since over a decade in the organisation of french language courses in france.
participants gain valuable  information about modern-day french culture and society and improve overall  communicative skills.
take french language courses available at all levels, whether you are just starting your language study or looking to increase your fluency.
the programs are designed to provide participants with ample opportunity to learn and use french and be a part of a comprehensive learning experience.
location: paris, nice, chambery, bordeaux, and annecy email: info@wle-france.com vis-à-vis vis-à-vis is a specialist organisation  providing french language courses in france, belgium and canada.
oise is committed to its policy of teaching in small  groups (1:1 or 1:4 or 1:8 per class) to ensure that students benefit from  individual attention even within a group environment.
making the right choice is very important and we like to help  you to make that decision.
all year round we welcome people of different nationalities and backgrounds who wish to learn or improve their knowledge of today's french.
location: paris email: cfilc@cfilc.fr cours de civilisation française de la sorbonne
location: paris email: latelier9@latelier9.com bridge-linguatec the school in paris is located in a typical french neighborhood, within walking distance to famous sites like the champs elysées, the arc de triomphe and the trocadero.
the final  objective is to raise students' language level to an efficient standard of  communication.
location: paris email: contact@verlaine-langue.com world link education wle offers affordable, accredited and  quality french language programs, with programs in paris, nice, chambery,  bordeaux, and annecy.
location: paris email: latelier9@latelier9.com bridge-linguatec the school in paris is located in a typical  french neighborhood, within walking distance to famous sites like the champs  elysées, the arc de triomphe and the trocadero.
we are now offering featured listings for language schools at a rate of$50 for 3 months or $145 for a year.
the courses we offer include private instruction, group instruction, a combination of private and group instruction, and our ever-popular immersion course.
one positive advantage of this for you is that we know the schools we use in these countries by heart, which means we can give you clear and objective advice.
location: paris, nice email: paris@france-langue.fr esl - sejours linguistiques esl - sejours linguistiques is  specialised since over a decade in the organisation of french language courses  in france.
however, in certain cities, such as paris, the language school  accord offers the accomodation in student residences.
the grands boulevards  school caters to a wider range of budgets and offers an extensive range of  courses in a smart and typically parisian building.
the school provides an active pedagogy-based teaching method, using tools designed by our team to give students the right training required to enhance the skills they need for each level.
if you are not sure which course is suitable, oise will construct a personalised profile to suit your needs.
take advantage of the services available at the cea paris office including computer access and cable television, a lending library, resource binders for extracurricular activities, and student mailboxes.
location: paris email: info@institut-parisien.com institut rougemont superieur the rougemont superior institute, created in 1986 is a private institute accredited by the rectorat of paris and the labour ministry.
the overall aim of the program is to instill the linguistic,  practical, and cultural aspects of the language as well as the french way of  life.
this requires not only a perfect command of the language but also a profound understanding of the cultural context.
this is the same content from the hardcopy editions, but with the text in pdf format and the audio in mp3 format.
the featured listings will be shown at the top of the school page for the appropriate geographic area, with additional space and written and graphic image content of your choosing, edited to fit in the space allotted.
practical and communicative, our method focuses on contact and dialogue.
location: paris email: info@institut-parisien.com institut rougemont superieur the rougemont superior institute,  created in 1986 is a private institute accredited by the rectorat of paris and  the labour ministry.
the school consists of  18 classrooms located in four different buildings within walking distance of  each other.
if you would like to submit a regular listing to include in these  pages, just use ourforeign language schools entry form to send the  information on your school program.
the school provides an active pedagogy-based teaching  method, using tools designed by our team to give students the right training  required to enhance the skills they need for each level.
paris is the natural choice for anyone wishing to learn  french.
as you learn french at our language school, you  will have the opportunity to explore everything that paris has to offer.
the  variety of topics covered by this material (oral and written expression,  grammar, listening and reading comprehension, pronunciation) enables us to  design a program perfectly suited to the needs of any given group.
our modern teaching methods allow  participants at lower proficiency levels to acquire the language skills needed  for effective communication in a short period of time, and at higher  proficiency levels, expression proficiency at an abstract level.
they know how to get you talking french.
through the many cea program benefits we offer in paris you can choose from academic programs offered at multiple institutions to find the one which best fits your needs.
our teaching methods are structured, intensive and adaptive, with  teaching materials constantly kept up-to date.
for over 30 years, oise has  developed and refined the concept of effective language training whilst  remaining true to its belief in the value of individual attention in order to  maximise the contact time between student and teacher.
in  paris, you learn not only the language, but experience the unique culture,  literary and political life.
french in france also offers french culture courses such as wine and  cooking in antibes, art in french in paris, french language vacation for  parents and kids on the riviera as well as long programs combining paris and  the cote d'azur, french and law in paris, french and tourism in paris, and a  budget package including accommodation in antibes.
for further advice about the schools,  locations and choosing the right course and accommodation contact  vis-à-vis - we consider it our most important task to provide you with  personal advice and excellent service.
location: paris email: inst.roug.sup@wanadoo.fr langue onze langue onze is a small school teaching french  language to foreigners, created in 1981 in the 11th arrondissement in paris.
location: paris email: colleen.miller@gowithcea.com ecole france langue france langue is celebrating its 29th anniversery this year and has taught french to thousands of students from over 80 countries since its foundation in 1976.
the emphasis is on french conversation skills, taught by qualified, experienced, and enthusiastic french teachers.
we offer a diverse range of courses and no two schools are  the same.
email: info@wle-france.com accord accord french language school offers optimal conditions  for learning the language and discovering french culture.
the programs are designed to provide participants with ample  opportunity to learn and use french and be a part of a comprehensive learning  experience.
working as a non-profit organisation, the school is run by a team of teachers and some active members who are united by their interest in foreign cultures, languages and pedagogy.
practical and communicative, our method focuses on contact and  dialogue.
oral and written exercises are used daily to learn or review grammar, and pronunciation is corrected according to each ones needs.
we offer a diverse range of courses and no two schools are the same.
location: paris email: info@applelanguages.com l'atelier 9 at l'atelier 9 our aim is to offer high quality french and spanish language courses in the heart of paris.
however, in certain cities, such as paris, the language school accord offers the accomodation in student residences.
our main objective is  to develop an individual's learning strategies, and enable students to transfer  communication skills already mastered in the native language to the new  language.
take french language courses available at all levels, whether you are  just starting your language study or looking to increase your fluency.
our partner schools for students and adultes teach french tuition  from beginner to advanced levels, year-round in france's most liked cities.
paris at cactus we are only too aware of the importance to learn french in this day and age, be it for business, education or the sheer pleasure of being able to communicate with different people and cultures.
the featured listings  will be shown at the top of the school page for the appropriate geographic  area, with additional space and written and graphic image content of your  choosing, edited to fit in the space allotted.
with the intention of promoting french culture, the cours de civilisation française de la sorbonne was created in 1919 just after the first world war.
each of our programs includes everything you need from  personal advisors and onsite staff to credit transfer and housing.
classes are structured to maximise the contact time between teacher and student.
our partner schools for students and adultes teach french tuition from beginner to advanced levels, year-round in france's most liked cities.
location: paris email: info@accord-langues.com apple languages - learn french in paris apple languages has 3  french schools in paris, together with schools throughout france, switzerland,  canada and gaudeloupe.
a  wide range of french lessons is available, depending on each language school :  general french courses (standard, intensive, super-intensive), international  language certificate preparation course (delf/dalf, tcf, tef), business french  or french culture classes.
the french language programs in paris are designed  to immerse participants in the french language.
all of our students are placed in different groups (maximum of 9 students) depending on their level.
through the  many cea program benefits we offer in paris you can choose from academic  programs offered at multiple institutions to find the one which best fits your  needs.
location: paris email: info@langueonzeparis.com lutece langue we offer personalized french courses in small groups (max.
with its mini-group courses,  personal attention and excellent study facilities, this school is aimed at  business students and those who want results, and fast.
the courses of french  language and civilization are for students willing to understand the french  culture as a group of values (which you can see in various ways of thinking).
classes are larger here, but verbal communication is still the main priority.
location: paris email: contact@ccfs-sorbonne.fr cultural experience abroad truly experience paris by studying abroad with cea!
for further advice about the schools, locations and choosing the right course and accommodation contact vis-à-vis - we consider it our most important task to provide you with personal advice and excellent service.
location: paris email: contact@verlaine-langue.com world link education wle offers affordable, accredited and quality french language programs, with programs in paris, nice, chambery, bordeaux, and annecy.
we have collected here a number of french language schools of  various levels of intensity in a variety of areas in france, to help you find  the destination of your choice.
location: paris email: paris@oise.com verlaine langue our small classes and sorbonne-trained teachers give you the kind of one-on-one attention you need.
paris is the natural choice for anyone wishing to learn french.
or maybe you want to take a vacation in france,  and while enjoying the sights, learn enough french to help you get by in your  explorations.
we have collected here a number of french language schools of various levels of intensity in a variety of areas in france, to help you find the destination of your choice.
the executive school is located in a  charming mansion house close to place de clichy.
paris at cactus we are only too aware  of the importance to learn french in this day and age, be it for business,  education or the sheer pleasure of being able to communicate with different  people and cultures.
the cours de civilisation française de la  sorbonne's current director is mr. pierre brunel, professor of comparative  literature at paris-sorbonne university (paris iv), member of the institut  universitaire de france; its deputy-director is mr. jean-louis de boissieu,  lecturer at the same university.
accord langues in  paris, centre international d'antibes of the french riviera, and atoll juniors  offer a complete range of courses including short term programs and long term  french courses for adults, immersion and vacation language camps for kids and  teens as well as an extremely high rate of success to the delf, dalf and tcf  exams.
advertise order info |  faq | privacy policy | email us phone:  (253) 353 2761
location: paris email: paris@oise.com verlaine langue our small classes and sorbonne-trained  teachers give you the kind of one-on-one attention you need.
our method features an accent on speaking and listening  skills all while improving the students writing skills, in a relaxed and lively  atmosphere where students feel free to actively participate, express their  views, in role play and simulations.
location: paris,  antibes email: info@cia-france.com institut parisien de langue et de civilisation françaises the institut parisien concentrates all its efforts and means on creating the  ideal atmosphere for learning and practicing french ensuring an excellent  progression.
your  writing will also improve through the use of exercises adapted to each level,  our perfection course (advanced levels), literary articles, texts and press  articles.
participants gain valuable information about modern-day french culture and society and improve overall communicative skills.
vis-à-vis is your first step towards learning french in a french speaking country.
france langue is situated near the champs elysees and the eiffel tower and has expandable classroom space around the place victor hugo.
our team of course advisors will help you choose the programme which is right for you.
for further immersion in the language and culture, french  culture and civilization lectures, cinema, and guided excursions are held at no  additional cost.
our method, based on the communicative aspect of the  language, requires no textbooks, but rather provides a tailored-sheet system  created by the teachers, adapted to the linguistic needs of the students.
experience life as a true parisian by living in an apartment,  residence hall, or homestay.
to get your listing, contact ken tomkins atmultilingualbooks.@yahoo.com.
our modern teaching methods allow participants at lower proficiency levels to acquire the language skills needed for effective communication in a short period of time, and at higher proficiency levels, expression proficiency at an abstract level.
it makes use of authentic written documents and audio-visual reference material, as well as daily-life contents to encourage conversation and assure constant progress.
location: paris email: info@applelanguages.com l'atelier 9 at l'atelier 9 our aim is to offer high quality  french and spanish language courses in the heart of paris.
all of our students are placed in  different groups (maximum of 9 students) depending on their level.
if you would like to submit a regular listing to include in these pages, just use ourforeign language schools entry form to send the information on your school program.
the overall aim of the program is to instill the linguistic, practical, and cultural aspects of the language as well as the french way of life.
the accomodation is generally provided in  hostfamilies.
our teaching is based on the everyday spoken language,  using our own supply of worksheets created by the teachers themselves.
location: paris email: info@accord-langues.com apple languages - learn french in paris apple languages has 3 french schools in paris, together with schools throughout france, switzerland, canada and gaudeloupe.
with its mini-group courses, personal attention and excellent study facilities, this school is aimed at business students and those who want results, and fast.
to get your listing, contact ken  tomkins atmultilingualbooks.@yahoo.com.
location: paris email: info@visavis.org downloads | spanish | asl schools | internet radio | internet tv | press  releases | language news  | school and library  |
continue working toward your major or graduation requirements by taking a wide variety of courses taught in english.
discover the city's famous monuments,  charming old quarters, cafés, restaurants, cabarets, and theatres.
whether you wish to study  for professional, academic or practical purposes, oise has a course for you.
we work with two schools in paris to suit the different tastes and  demands of students wanting to study here.
our method features an accent on speaking and listening skills all while improving the students writing skills, in a relaxed and lively atmosphere where students feel free to actively participate, express their views, in role play and simulations.
our efficient, dynamic method leads you to  express yourself through conversation themes, play-roles, debates, daily  situational contents, and amusing grammar drills, and achieve comprehension  with the aid of audio material and visual recordings on french culture.
the school consists of 18 classrooms located in four different buildings within walking distance of each other.
all year  round we welcome people of different nationalities and backgrounds who wish to  learn or improve their knowledge of today's french.
foreign  language schools > french language schools in france > paris search  our site tweet french language schools in france: paris french language schools in france: paris are you looking for a  place to study french intensively abroad, perhaps looking for a total immersion  course with native speakers?
working as a non-profit organisation, the school is run by a team of teachers  and some active members who are united by their interest in foreign cultures,  languages and pedagogy.
verbal communication is a priority: learning to listen and  understand, to express oneself correctly and with good pronunciation.
the final objective is to raise students' language level to an efficient standard of communication.
we have immersion focused courses taught by experienced  and qualified native french teachers, with a comprehensive and balanced  curriculum integrating all aspects of the language: reading, writing, speaking,  listening, grammar, phonetics and vocabulary.
initially, it was primarily attended by americans but it has developed  considerably since then.
if you are  not sure which course is suitable, oise will construct a personalised profile  to suit your needs.
french language schools in france: paris are you looking for a place to study french intensively abroad, perhaps looking for a total immersion course with native speakers?
discover the city's famous monuments, charming old quarters, cafés, restaurants, cabarets, and theatres.
the courses of french language and civilization are for students willing to understand the french culture as a group of values (which you can see in various ways of thinking).
we hope this web-site will give you an insight into  what learning french in-country means.
friendly and encouraging, the teachers at verlaine langue are highly-trained professionals with over 20 years experience teaching french courses to foreigners from all over the world.
location: paris, antibes email: info@cia-france.com institut parisien de langue et de civilisation françaises the institut parisien concentrates all its efforts and means on creating the ideal atmosphere for learning and practicing french ensuring an excellent progression.
making the right choice is very important and we like to help you to make that decision.
experience life as a true parisian by living in an apartment, residence hall, or homestay.
our teaching methods are structured, intensive and adaptive, with teaching materials constantly kept up-to date.
continue  working toward your major or graduation requirements by taking a wide variety  of courses taught in english.
for over 30 years, oise has developed and refined the concept of effective language training whilst remaining true to its belief in the value of individual attention in order to maximise the contact time between student and teacher.
our 3 french language schools in paris, france, offer a french language program in the heart of paris.
location: paris, amboise, la rochelle, montpellier, lyon, nice, montreux email: : it@esl.ch french in france french in france gathers three of the main french language schools teaching french learning abroad.
our 3 french language schools in paris, france, offer a french language  program in the heart of paris.
in paris, you learn not only the language, but experience the unique culture, literary and political life.
location: paris, amboise, la rochelle, montpellier, lyon, nice, montreux email: : it@esl.ch french in france french in france gathers three of the main  french language schools teaching french learning abroad.
6), with unique programs to encourage active class participation and interaction.
the emphasis is on french conversation skills, taught by  qualified, experienced, and enthusiastic french teachers.
location: paris email: colleen.miller@gowithcea.com ecole france langue france langue is celebrating its 29th  anniversery this year and has taught french to thousands of students from over  80 countries since its foundation in 1976.
initially, it was primarily attended by americans but it has developed considerably since then.
friendly and encouraging, the  teachers at verlaine langue are highly-trained professionals with over 20 years  experience teaching french courses to foreigners from all over the world.
our efficient, dynamic method leads you to express yourself through conversation themes, play-roles, debates, daily situational contents, and amusing grammar drills, and achieve comprehension with the aid of audio material and visual recordings on french culture.
whether you wish to study for professional, academic or practical purposes, oise has a course for you.
oral and written exercises are used daily  to learn or review grammar, and pronunciation is corrected according to each  ones needs.
location: paris email: info@langueonzeparis.com lutece langue we offer personalized french courses in small  groups (max.
unlike most other  language schools in paris, verlaine langue limits its french classes to small  groups, with a maximum of 7 persons to a class: this gets you speaking and  understanding practical french from day one.
it is possible to  obtain us college/university credits; the school is registered as a private  institution of higher education.
location: paris email: enquiry@cactuslanguage.com cfilc language school a few minutes from parc de la villette, cfilc welcomes you to its friendly, ideal environment created to encourage you to learn french.
our professors guide each learner throughout the course with maximum language use.
our own in-house on-line magazine ipm@g  keeps you informed of events happening in paris and contains practical  addresses while keeping you up-to-date with the latest on the french language.
nor are our students: they differ in age and in their motivations for taking a course.
classes are structured to maximise the contact time between  teacher and student.
schools in paris areas in france: alsace/lorraine | aquitaine | auvergne | bourgogne (burgundy) | bretagne (britanny) | centre | champagne/franche-comte | languedoc roussillon | normandie | paris | pays de la loire | poitou-charentes | provence-alpes-côte d'azur | pyrenees | rhône-alpes french schools main page - schools in other languages paris academy of language in paris learn to master french in paris,  france's historical and cultural center.
various diplomas are awarded for successful completion of  studies at the cours de civilisation française de la sorbonne.
the headquarters are situated in the sorbonne  university, and about 9,000 students attend the institution each year, from all  over the world.
as you learn french at our language school, you will have the opportunity to explore everything that paris has to offer.
schools in paris areas in france: alsace/lorraine | aquitaine | auvergne | bourgogne (burgundy) | bretagne (britanny) | centre | champagne/franche-comte | languedoc roussillon | normandie | paris | pays de la loire | poitou-charentes | provence-alpes-côte d'azur | pyrenees | rhône-alpes french schools main page - schools in other languages paris academy of language in paris learn to master french in paris, france's historical and cultural center.
or maybe you want to take a vacation in france, and while enjoying the sights, learn enough french to help you get by in your explorations.
we work with two schools in paris to suit the different tastes and demands of students wanting to study here.
accord langues in paris, centre international d'antibes of the french riviera, and atoll juniors offer a complete range of courses including short term programs and long term french courses for adults, immersion and vacation language camps for kids and teens as well as an extremely high rate of success to the delf, dalf and tcf exams.
our method, based on the communicative aspect of the language, requires no textbooks, but rather provides a tailored-sheet system created by the teachers, adapted to the linguistic needs of the students.
nor are our students: they differ in age and in their motivations for  taking a course.
6), with unique programs to encourage active class participation  and interaction.
it makes use of authentic written documents and audio-visual  reference material, as well as daily-life contents to encourage conversation  and assure constant progress.
with specialized programs: business french, hotel and tourism industry french, french art history, french and french cuisine, teacher training, 50+, a la carte group programs and internships in french companies.
various diplomas are awarded for successful completion of studies at the cours de civilisation française de la sorbonne.
in order to encourage learning french and becoming part of the french way of life we also put emphasis on the need for students to know paris, french culture and the french themselves as a real complement to their training.
classes are larger here,  but verbal communication is still the main priority.
verbal communication is a priority: learning to listen and understand, to express oneself correctly and with good pronunciation.
the grands boulevards school caters to a wider range of budgets and offers an extensive range of courses in a smart and typically parisian building.
accord is accredited by  csn in northern european countries as well as bildungsurlaub in several german  regions, and registered as a private institute of high education, is a member  of souffle, maison de la france, the french youth tourism club, and elite.
the cours de civilisation française de la sorbonne's current director is mr. pierre brunel, professor of comparative literature at paris-sorbonne university (paris iv), member of the institut universitaire de france; its deputy-director is mr. jean-louis de boissieu, lecturer at the same university.
location: paris email: contact@ccfs-sorbonne.fr cultural experience abroad truly experience paris by studying  abroad with cea!
vis-à-vis is your first step towards learning french in a french  speaking country.
we are now offering featured listings for language schools at a  rate of$50 for 3 months or $145 for a year.
the accomodation is generally provided in hostfamilies.
our teaching is based on the everyday spoken language, using our own supply of worksheets created by the teachers themselves.
that's why our teaching material is centered on actual french situations and enriched by numerous documents, including songs, newspaper and magazine articles, videos, games, etc.
email: admissions@bridgelinguatec.com cactus language france:
email: info@wle-france.com accord accord french language school offers optimal conditions for learning the language and discovering french culture.
email: info@lutece-langue.com oise intensive language schools the teaching philosophy of  oise is based on the intensive language course.
take advantage of the services available at the  cea paris office including computer access and cable television, a lending  library, resource binders for extracurricular activities, and student  mailboxes.
in order to encourage learning  french and becoming part of the french way of life we also put emphasis on the  need for students to know paris, french culture and the french themselves as a  real complement to their training.
located in downtown paris, the cours rougemont is right in the middle of  historical, cultural, artistic and economic areas of the french capital, such  as museums, hostels, and restaurants.
location: paris email: cfilc@cfilc.fr cours de civilisation française de la sorbonne with the  intention of promoting french culture, the cours de civilisation  française de la sorbonne was created in 1919 just after the first world  war.
our courses combine linguistic instruction and cultural workshops in order to share knowledge of french and spanish language and culture, and to help promote their diffusion throughout the world.
this requires not only a perfect command of the language but  also a profound understanding of the cultural context.
your writing will also improve through the use of exercises adapted to each level, our perfection course (advanced levels), literary articles, texts and press articles.
our main objective is to develop an individual's learning strategies, and enable students to transfer communication skills already mastered in the native language to the new language.