task focus vs. time focus: this is  complicated.
and very often what a talented kid looks like when they’re very young has very little to do with what an eminent and creative practitioner of the field is going to look like in adulthood.
at home, you need a good-sized d-ring binder, like this, with ordinary  paper dividers to mirror the dividers in the traveling binder.
given that the  notebook system they’ve chosen is even worse than i’d feared (i  might even need to do another rant!), let’s just say i’m a bit  skeptical.
of course, sometimes that planning is itself a nontrivial task — in  fact, it’s the first task in the assignment, and should probably be done  as soon as possible.
when  i’m handling one good-sized project with a bunch of different facets to  it (e.g., job search), i have a 13-pocket accordion folder, made of durable  plastic, likethis one.
similarly, kids who enter a lot of exhibits  in the fair (and many kids enter several dozen items) have to handle the  organizational overhead (paperwork, entry slips, explanatory cards, etc)  themselves.
the two aren’t the same thing, but they’re intertwined.
ideally, i would want to hear someone spontaneously identify issues of social isolation, intense imaginations and emotions, and asynchrony between cognitive and emotional development, as all being relevant things to think about when working with gifted folks.
what i do like to see kids have around is some way of writing in color,  whether that be colored pencils or colored pens.
but, as i tell my own kids, unless something is bleeding  or on fire, chances are good that this isn’t an emergency.
again,  i tend to be skeptical of two-step systems, but they’re better than an  implied system where one of the steps is inevitably going to be, “forget  to enter the information where it actually needs to go.”
by  the way, i have known some school-age kids to use an accordion file instead of  the traveling zip binder, where each section is a class, and there’s one  section at the front for hot-folder items.
but the fact is,all kids need some adult direction early inany process, and that direction needs to be faded gradually over time.
however, if that’s a problem area,  then it needs to get explicitly cued and practiced specifically until it  becomes part of the pcd-use routine.
i’d be a good grantwriter, i suppose, but ugh, not what  i want to actually do for a living.
if you get push-back instead of thoughtful dialogue, just thank them nicely and walk.
anyone who frames giftedness as being part of the problem, anyone who defines the intensity and drive and perceptiveness and differentness and postformal reasoning as “the thing that’s wrong with you,” leave and don’t look back.
reading biographies of famous individuals, particularly those written for younger audiences, doesn’t help all that much, i’m afraid.
don’t overcomplexificate things.
4 single-subject spiral notebooks that measure 9″x11″ (with, i  kid you not, seven (7) reminders, four (4) of which are boldfaced and  underlined, one (1) of which also has italics, to make sure you notice that  they are requiring you to track down spirals that are actually  9″x11″ rather than 8.5″x11″ or 8.5″x10.5″,  despite the fact that these spirals are literally three times the cost of the  normal ones and are considerably harder to find (yes, i found them, no need to  send me a link)).
i’ll try to tag things in terms of whether something is a general-interest post (or even a gt 101 faq), or whether i think it’s mostly going to be of interest to the folks who are as geeky as i am.
have you found it necessary to adapt your approach in  working with gifted folks?
if you ever spot it outside one of those places, it needs to get put back in one of its permissible “homes” right away.
and everyone is encouraged to get into the game.
there is a nice public speaking program — kids  prepare 3-10-minute talks on any topic they like, with posters and 3-d objects,  kind of like show and tell on steroids.
i can’t say as i’ve found a bulletproof system for keeping  track of tasks (what needs to be done) and time (when it will be  done and when it will be completed), but let me at least raise the issues i  think need to be considered in the process.
not every kid has easy access to a family friend who  just happens to be in your field.)
and don’t worry about that “social-emotional” thing, or the one story they can tell you about the kid who accelerated and was miserable — the most important social-emotional need for gifted kids is appropriate academic challenge and real peers.
these are a must for  physics or any other course involving diagrams, and really useful for a lot of  note-taking enterprises.
but if you feel that a kid shouldn’t be present in their own iep meetings by the mid to late teenage years, chances are good that you also need to be thinking about legal guardianship or conservatorship in adulthood.
the cluster grouping handbook: a schoolwide model: how to challenge gifted students and improve achievement for all.
the goal is not to get our kids (or us!) to act like everyone else.
ideally, i would want to hear someone spontaneously identify  issues of social isolation, intense imaginations and emotions, and asynchrony  between cognitive and emotional development, as all being relevant things to  think about when working with gifted folks.
also, have available at home a small box of page protectors, preferably  matte-finish ones.
i’d like to see them there by late middle school or early high school age, and absolutely by late high school age.
the day-to-day job of a scientist — a real one — isn’t too different from that of, say, an insurance claims adjuster.
i’m noticing what’s not on the list, too… no mechanical pencils.
before you ask, no, i don’t have a giant network of people i can  recommend.
which then is used to justify  blaming kids who can’t make them work (“not trying hard  enough” or even “lazy”).
if you’re using portable pockets, you might be  able to get away with color-coding (i do — i usually have some mnemonic  association between the color and the project, and that’s enough for me).
but the fact is,all kids need some adult direction  early inany process, and that direction needs to be faded gradually over time.
within about thirty seconds, i won’t even remember that there was an idea that i was supposed to remember.
the nice thing about this system is that any  member of the family can make changes which then everyone can see, and any  member of the family can create an appointment for anyone else — i can  let little bird know that we have company coming on a certain evening, so she  can’t count on homework help then, for example.
then, if necessary, we teach a parent how to watch and cue them, and they do it before our session, so my weekly check is just to see that it’s been done correctly.
if you aren’t going to have your actual planner ready to hand all the  time, whatwill you have with you that will enable you to capture  information that needs to get into the planner?
the courses are generally terrific, and the chance to be with other gifted kids is one that many kids treasure.
mechanical pencils are now widely  available in.9mm width, which is thick enough even for most kids who press too  hard.
however, particularly as we make it into adulthood — and i’m willing to bet that there are some homeschoolers or afterschoolers who would also be in this boat — things are often organized less around routine stuff happening every day or week, and more around discreteprojects.
the lists are *very* helpful for parents to get advice and feedback from each other, and even just to have a place to talk about what they’re going through without being assumed to be bragging.
but it  didn’t help with the basic problem that most therapists think theydo get it (an example of the dunning-kruger effect, where the lack of  knowledge and metacognitive skills in a domain interferes with accurate  self-assessment of skill in a domain — basically, if you don’t know  what you don’t know, you don’t know that you don’t know it).
both of these are from the same folks as  nation deceived.
what i do like to see kids have around is some way of writing in color, whether that be colored pencils or colored pens.
see, some of us have brains that, well, we think best in piles and networks.
today’s science demonstration will require a laptop, a printer, and 20 liters of coffee.
accordion files, of course, have those little divider tabs.
workaround for paper:   try preprinting some small stickers with typically-used words (e.g.  “test”) and stapling those to the inside cover.
but if you’re not entering it immediately, it needs to actually physically be put in the capture inbox, and it must get emptied into the real system with everything else.
if you’re a moveable feast, then you need something portable.
if you would like to use a paper system, i’d recommend something like  a dayrunner or franklin planner, which allows you to customize sheet types  and to keep adding new sheets and retiring old sheets as you go.
i have particular expertise in cognitive, academic, and psychological assessment, the psychological and social effects of high intelligence, theories of intelligence and personality, and the real world of various educational strategies.
they are my go-to pcds.
good carry-around pockets are good for about  an inch or two of paper, which handles quite a wide variety of projects.
it’s not just for  “explosive” kids.)
so teach them to write an assignment for, e.g., ”schedule time to work on book report,” the day the book report is assigned.
as i feared, little bird’s middle school has handed out their official agenda book that they plan to periodically check that the kids are using the way they have decided is the one right way.
it’s a plan for lost and crumpled papers, shoveddeep into the recesses of the backpack until they turn into petroleum products.
try to find highlighters that aren’t fluorescent (=  superstimulating).
properly handled, having kids participate in their own meetings can  contribute to their own maturational process.
so, i would advise specifically bringing up the topic of giftedness and multiple exceptionality with any prospective therapist in a nonthreatening but clear way, one which focuses on observable behavior — “what experience do you have working with folks who are highly intelligent?
that simple behavior is one of those things that organized people think, “how difficult can this be?”
enter the pile-containment devices: letter trays, portable pockets, accordion folders, and the like.
have a parent, therapist, guide, adult friend, or other safe adult who does not work for the school (or court, or whatever), someone who has no reason to pressure the child to give any specific answers, sit with the child ahead of time.
i’ve had the same one for years, because i really  cannot manage more than one project of accordion-file magnitude at a time  (“knowing your limits” being another important aspect of executive  functioning).
some people like to put new things in the back, others like to put them in the front of each section — either is fine, butpick one and stick to it.
mentors can also help link a kid up with long-term experiences where they  can get their hands dirty and become part of the action, particularly as they  move into the teen years.
for whichever version, teach kids to write down all of the  pulls on their time.
so the activities  aren’t just for fun and games — we’re creating the  opportunity for a developmental need to be met.
categories: getting started tags: introduction newer entries
that simple  behavior is one of those things that organized people think, “how  difficult can this be?”
there are a lot of books written about gifted kids and how to  parent them.
i’d like to see them there by late  middle school or early high school age, and absolutely by late high school age.
but it’sparticularly important for gt and 2e kids, because they all too often don’t get enough of the self-efficacy and empathic mirroring / accreditation experiences that most kids get in school.
judges are not  pressured to make anyone “not feel bad.”)
this costsnothing to implement, and not only does the book tell a principal how and why, it even includes sample letters to help manage the political stuff around it.
it likes to collect lots of interesting little things (binder clips, staplers, etc), but we’re back to william of ockham there – if you don’t need it, get rid of it.
and i worry, frankly,  about what is actually being taught when anything’s being taught…  whether they are just continuing to promulgate the same typical myths about how  gifted kids “will be just fine on their own.”
the openness of the structure allows for more of that to  happen.
typically, folks introduce their questions with, “i  don’t know if anyone has ever had this happen, but…” and  everyone says, “oh, no, we’ve all had that happen, here’s the  different ways we dealt with it.”
similarly, we have a family set of task lists — since we’re an iphone / ipod touch family, we use an app called geetasks that interfaces withgoogle tasks.
routine maintenance: you need to create structures and  routines for when you look at the planner and what you do with it — every  night before bed to preview the next day?
(i know, your kids think they’re super and will remember.
to avoid the problem, i make it my personal goal to get rid of those pieces of paper as soon as possible by entering the relevant information  into my system.
ideally, no paper should ever be loose, but i live on planet earth, so i do understand.
4-h is a very flexible program, which can definitely be bewildering at times, but the flexibility is great for gifted and 2e kids.
so think about the  routines you create for its movement.
and, admittedly sometimes the systems are for the convenience of the teachers — e.g., they want to be able to collect notebooks and take them home to check that kids are doing their work.
all pieces of paper get saved until the end of the year (actually, for a few years, if you think you might have any interaction with the special education system).
task focus vs. time focus: this is complicated.
as with the  paper-management system, i advise keeping things as simple as possible.
i will say, however, that many  disorganized kids (including everyone in my household old enough to need an  organizer) do manage to hold onto electronic devices, despite  everyone’s fears, so don’t assume that the kid who loses everything  will also lose their electronic portable brain.)
this all reads practically like a recipe for “how to design an out-of-school activity that helps kids develop real skills and real self-esteem.”
it’s not a plan for success.
how you would like that reminder to happen?
if you do your work basically at your desk, then try a whole bunch of  horizontal letter trays, or a mail sorter (obviously, both of those items can  be found in stylish versions, too, but i’m showing cheap-and-ugly  options).
hence the  topic of this post.
someone who is at  least moderately bright and who is a good listener is okay for a client who is
hoagies also has a wealth of articles with every possible  opinion on every possible topic, but chances are good that’s what got you  overwhelmed in the first place (grin).
i’m sure there are many different flavors of how this is done in  many different places, but what i see around here is a nicebalance  between competition against the self and competition against others.
i know, we’re all afraid to talk about it (i should really put up a rant about gifties as a closeted minority), but we have to.
this is a perfect example of what i call “silent  differentiation,” which will be the topic of another post. (note that for some kids with asperger’s or adhd, programs which have  more structure are sometimes a better fit.
your kid is the same kid they were yesterday and is the same kid they’re going to be tomorrow.
unless a teacher specifically requires that a textbook come to class, textbooks should live at home all the time.
some readers might be new to the whole giftedness thing, and might be overwhelmed.
a recent publication from my esteemed mentor, jean peterson, showed that most accredited counselor training programs offerzero training in understanding giftedness, and those that do have only very tiny amounts of time spent on the topic.
there  aren’t any studies yet looking at training programs for psychologists,  but my sense of it is that, if anything, the situation is worse, since  “gifted education” exists as a distinct field, while “gifted  psychology” kinda basically doesn’t.
we work our whole lives to become, if we’re lucky, managers of sorts.
too much empty air and paper being carried around.
planning work time also requires kids to predict how long they think a task or subtask will take… and thus provides a good opportunity for them to also track how long somethingactually took, so that they can become more accurate predictors in the future.
if a kid feels weird or intimidated about asking for  a mentor, remind them that most people who are truly passionate about their  careers alsolove to share that passion with others, especially young folks who might want to grow up to be like them.
you’d like a reminder to come such that you will actually do the thing before forgetting about it (we call these “point-of-performance” reminders).
most  pre-bound systems that schools hand out and that are  easily available in  stores don’t handle this elegantly, and you’re stuck copying some  pages as you make the transition from one year to another.
some  teachers disagree with me and insist on work being done in pen.
what will you need to be reminded about?
the article is mainly about the fact that the public perception of science  as a profession is shaped largely by mad-scientist movies and whiz-bang  demonstrations.
but  if you feel that a kid shouldn’t be present in their own iep meetings by  the mid to late teenage years, chances are good that you also need to be  thinking about legal guardianship or conservatorship in adulthood.
hoagies again is a great one to follow, and allow yourself to bop  around and enjoy the variety of viewpoints.
a few good grades were being taken out of context to indicate that he was doing extremely well, and the team was on the verge of exiting him from the special education system, until he pointed out that there were good reasons why he had done well on those assignments that had nothing to do with his disabilities having magically been cured.
you can find a list of the state associations onthat same hoagies page.
if you have a system like this, consider also implementing a regular adult task that involves sitting down with the kid and extracting the relevant information from the kid’s planner.
but usually,  the main purpose of pocket folders is to become overstuffed and to have papers  fall out of them into a random and comical heap at inopportune moments.
every week to check the status of ongoing projects?
frequently, you can get rid of a lot of the intermediate materials, and then you need some sort of long-term storage for the stuff you want to keep.
a few good grades were being taken out of context to indicate that he was  doing extremely well, and the team was on the verge of exiting him from the  special education system, until he pointed out that there were good reasons why  he had done well on those assignments that had nothing to do with his  disabilities having magically been cured.
if i do, please don’t hesitate to call me on it.]
if you have two different things, then you’re going to (a) put information in the wrong place or in only one of the places (b) look in the wrong place or in only one of the places and thus miss something you need to know.
because classrooms can’t  have a single shared stapler anymore so kids can learn to take turns?
then we fade back to having the parent remind them to do it and check afterwards that it’s done correctly.
which is to say she’s not very good at it.
because although i knew intellectually that science  was a lot of hard work and a very long process, some little part of me still  held onto the magical belief that you had a brilliant idea on monday, did the  experiment on tuesday, got data (cells gotta grow overnight) on wednesday,  published on thursday, and on friday were on the plane to stockholm.
or maybe giftedness just wasn’t on their radar, but a  pediatrician or teacher or relative or someone else said something.
i believe that most questions are far more complex and  nuanced than most people give them credit for, and that it’s important to  think in a rigorous way about the ramifications of various ideas.
we know that gifted folk are found in every social, ethnic, racial, and economic group, but, well, like i said, a lot of folks don’t know what they don’t know.
if i do, please don’t  hesitate to call me on it.]
(note that both paper and electronic systems are likely to be royally  messed up by laundering, and both can often be restored by various heroic  means.
when there are (inevitable) changes in task or time information, they can  be changed easily without leaving lots of scribbly mess.
for us oldsters, or for older  kids who are homeschooling or who do a lot ofout-of-school activities, the  smallest item you can get the information into reliably and neatly and can keep  on your person, without forgetting it’s there and laundering it (sigh) is  probably best, because it facilitates efficient idea capture.
(yeah, i know, i hate paperwork, too.
first, by high school age, even kids who are below average in intelligence tend to be aware that people are making decisions about them without their participation.
you might be surprised how much depth of thought you will  hear.
not just in the binder, but in the rings.
second, one of my predoctoral internships was atthe arlington school.
at home, you need a good-sized d-ring binder, like this, with ordinary paper dividers to mirror the dividers in the traveling binder.
but in my life, i’m generally juggling a bunch of different smallish  projects at once.
gifted kids need career guidance.
not all extracurriculars (cocurriculars?
as an adjunct to learning about a career in depth, kids need to learn about themselves.
here is the closest match i was able to  find online.
“what are you most hoping  (or most worrying) that they will say?”
birdie likes school and i  think she’s getting a good education.
size: you could, i suppose, use 8.5″ x  11″ sheets, whether purchased or homebrewed, and integrate this right  into the front of the traveling zip-binder i describe inthis post.
http://www.ncld.org/at-school/your-childs-rights/advocacy-self-advocacy/a-parents-perspective-why-my-son-attended-his-own-iep-meetings that’s an excellent point.
sure, you’ll probably end  up with way too many ideas, and you’ll hear all sorts of, er, very strong  opinions.
but in my life, i’m generally juggling a bunch of different smallish projects at once.
but that just gives the illusion that these systems work.
note that this is all before we add any textbooks to those  backpacks, if you were concerned about weight.
i also like suggestions on how i can more effectively use this or other online forums — despite having been on the net for over 25 years (!), i tend not to be a particularly rapid adopter of the new and shiny.
plus, you need one ordinary divider for each kind of extra paper (lined,  graph, plain) that will be required — put maybe 10-30 pages of blank  paper in each.
if you like to use highlighters during tests, to highlight  key phrases so that you make sure you answer the whole question, then sure, go  ahead.
judges in all events are  explicitly told to give clear and understandable feedback on which aspects of  the entry were done well and how the entry could be improved, and to measure  kids against developmentally-appropriate but meaningfully high standards.
if you can get yourself to commit to a consistent location (say, a desk or other workspace, which i’ll have hints for in another post), then the discipline becomes that the pcds always get returned to that location, not just dropped wherever they happen to be when your brain moves on to another task.
so think about the routines you create for its movement.
it’s not designed as a place you drop your kids off and go do the  shopping.
carolyn k curates probably the largest single pile of links to all things gifted.
i frankly don’t think that parents (who are probably pretty smart themselves!) need to read every book out there — there’s not going to be that much new information once you’ve read one.
the problem i have with this system is that it’s usually hard for kids to write in these, just because they’re not in the kitchen when most of the information they need to write down is given to them.
okay, to be fair, i’m willing to guess that a couple of those binders might be destined to live in classrooms instead of traveling back and forth to lockers and home.
what else do people think would help kids make smart career choices?
normally, this district actually does a pretty good job with most things, and even a very good job with some things.
too much labor involved in routine use.
people who are passionate and geeky about things tend to love to share  with others.
(that’s the official motto, not to  be confused with the official slogan).
it’s not in arlington.
if they’ve got unmetabolized “stuff,” it’s going to play out in the relationship.
i’m frankly surprised  to see this list, and i hope that i’m wrong about some of my conjectures.
no graph paper for either math or science.
my aforementioned dissertation literature review took up a full-sized hanging-file box (actually overflowed it by the end).
if they’ve got unmetabolized “stuff,”  it’s going to play out in the relationship.
colored and sort-of-erasable mechanical pencils do exist, although the leads are generally quite fragile — if you are gentle, use those, otherwise, a few colors of ball-point are fine.
there’s even a companion cd-rom with customizable forms for the teachers to use.
in cluster  grouping, instead of spreading the gifted kids out among all classes in a grade  (which seems “fair” to the teachers, but makes it very hard for the  gifted kids to find each other), they get put in groups of about 5-6 kids  within a few classrooms.
i also like suggestions on how  i can more effectively use this or other online forums — despite having  been on the net for over 25 years (!), i tend not to be a particularly rapid  adopter of the new and shiny.
if you really only have a few things you need to deal with at any given  time, and, again, you’re good about offloading things into long-term  storage, think about something like acontractor’s clipboard.
little bird has been active in 4-h for  several years, and laughing boy has been an enthusiastic hanger-on and will be  a cloverbud this coming year.
i don’t have favorites  yet in this realm — it’s changing too fast.
remember that i’m here giving you permission to relax, take a breath, work with the school, don’t give up, accept that you don’t have to find a perfect solution right away, and that there’s no one right way to do anything.
1 glue stick (ah, now i’m wondering if this is the crucial piece to  their cunning plan — those oversized spiral-bounds could easily be chosen  so that every we’re-going-green-single-side-printed handout can be  meticulously glued in place!
i was going to cure cancer.
second, it corrals any  pieces of paper which have not yet made it into the rings.
i have particular expertise in cognitive, academic, and psychological  assessment, the psychological and social effects of high intelligence, theories  of intelligence and personality, and the real world of various educational  strategies.
the danger point here is that you  aren’t going to be reminded of the task until the last minute.
i also don’t like ones that have a rigid gusset  — they’re just asking to get crushed, and they take up too much  space when they’re not full.
if they don’t want help, we  can’t force them to accept it.
i’ve heard consistent reports from gt clients that if they weren’t able to leave therapy (many child or adolescent clients don’t feel they have much choice in the matter), they were highly successful not just in stonewalling, but in outright snowing therapists who they felt didn’t empathize with them effectively (my favorite was the tweenaged client who structured her play so as to make her therapist come to certain interpretations).
unless a teacher specifically requires that a textbook come to class,  textbooks should live at home all the time.
are there kids for whom this kind of self-determination is not a realistic goal?
okay, i promised some ideas on planners and how to keep track of assignments.
categories: executive functioning, getting started, surviving school tags: executive functioning, extracurriculars, organization
second, it corrals any pieces of paper which have not yet made it into the rings.
they don’t include the information for anything not related to  school.
if your concern is that the child may be upset by the process, particularly if the child’s disability affects their emotional stability, let me say two things.
along with that, by the way, if you think your child might be  twice-exceptional, or if you live in a state where gifted education is handled  through the special education process, the place to go iswrightslaw.
i don’t believe in  using lockers for anything (other than maybe your coat), because (1) most  schools don’t provide enough time to go to them (2) they add a layer of  complication, a location where things can get left by accident.
also, i would want someone who in  your initial interview seems to have some level of personal empathy with those  experiences — they don’t necessarily have to have had them  themselves, but it helps if they’re close enough that they didn’t
and don’t worry about that  “social-emotional” thing, or the one story they can tell you about  the kid who accelerated and was miserable — the most important  social-emotional need for gifted kids is appropriate academic challenge and  real peers.
if a kid feels weird or intimidated about asking for a mentor, remind them that most people who are truly passionate about their careers alsolove to share that passion with others, especially young folks who might want to grow up to be like them.
how do i get started?”
minneapolis, mn: free spirit publishing.
the best single book to share with teachers is: winebrenner, s. (2001).
knowing about your own personal learning and working  profile, in its many dimensions (subject for a future post), is important.
the goal is to help us figure out whowe are and how to act like ourselves, just in an adaptive way.
you need to set up  some kind of regular routine that will remind you toempty that  capture-box into the actual planner.
”what would a good solution look like for you?”
but don’t try it if you don’t have to — look for pockets that  have someplace to slip a paper label into them.
remember that being able to write small also contributes to keeping the  whole object small, too (see below).
some ideas on this  front: email can make a good capture site and a good way for members of a family  to send each other information, butonly if you then also take the oath  that you willimmediately transcribe any information found in your  inbox into the proper place later, or create a folder (better: one with an  automatic sort-int0-this-folder rule!)
or perhaps because backpacks usually have  appropriately-sized pockets, so pencil pouches are superfluous.)
you probably don’t need  wheels because you’re not going to carry all that much most of the time.
to learn about what the research actually says about the various different  forms of academic acceleration, you can download thea nation deceived report  for free.
this got a lot longer than i thought it would… there is a lot of complexity!
little bird has been active in 4-h for several years, and laughing boy has been an enthusiastic hanger-on and will be a cloverbud this coming year.
for another instance, when i was  working on the literature review for my dissertation, there were piles and  piles of papers on various topics.
that’s really upsetting, too.
at home, you also need an ordinary stapler and a heavy-duty 3-hole punch (cheaper than you might think, and a worthwhile investment).
since you only get one object  to play with, you have to decide whether it’s going to be a hardcopy  paper calendar (like they hand out at school) or whether you’re going to  use an electronic system.
if you can predict what the adults’ concerns about the child’s proposals might be, offer them for the child’s consideration.
if it’s not, tell carolyn, and she’ll add it.
similarly, we have a family set of task lists — since  we’re an iphone / ipod touch family, we use an app called geetasks that  interfaces withgoogle tasks.
i don’t have favorites yet in this realm — it’s changing too fast.
(side note: those who are fans of ross greene and stuart ablon’s work  around teaching kids to self-regulate will recognize this process, and those  who are not familiar with it should readtheir book (professionals should read  this one) or check out the website.
the magic word is “in  the rings of the binder.”
she  talks about how to actually implement techniques like curriculum compacting  (test out of what you already know), differentiated lesson plans (have  different kids do different things on the same topic), and independent  projects, without spending lots of money or putting forth enormous effort.
same thing with what you will do when a project is completed.
speaking of the culture of the group, this is one that tends to attract a  crowd marked bycuriosity and passion, highly enriched for  bright-to-gifted folks.
although some bumbling is inevitable in any volunteer effort, this  doesn’t have to create a blind-leading-the-blind race to the bottom.
if what you find doesn’t come with a zip or other means to close it and protect the pages, try adding an elastic strap or rubber band.
the kid gets experience that both helps them understand the complexity of a field and, oh, by the way, looks great on applications.
so it matters who else shows up, but there’s a way for you to  realize that someone else’s work having been better doesn’t mean  that what you did stinks.
this is a great thing for them to learn to do, and a nice well-constructed venue for them to learn to do it in.
to learn about what the research actually says about the various different forms of academic acceleration, you can download thea nation deceived report for free.
you’re not crazy (okay, you might be, but i’m not going to diagnose you via a blog).
or they could call me for a short-term professional consultation — i’m thrilled to be able to spread the knowledge here.
let me suggest also a lanyard or other device to  permanentlyattach said flash drive to the kid’s backpack?
explain the purpose of the meeting, explain the questions that the adults  will be thinking through, and take the time to make sure the child understands  as well as they are developmentally able to.
people who don’t know much about brains like to call this a  right-brained processing style, or a visual processing style (sorry, both of  those concepts would get me laughed out of the cool neuropsych parties —  the current research on the topic is much more complex than any such  simple-minded dichotomy would support).
perhaps obvious in retrospect, but not obvious to a caring and empathic tween girl who loves animals and science.
everyone in the family needs to model the skills that you  want your kid to develop.
if you have an electronic system, think about how  you are going to use reminders intelligently.
think about it… when they’re 18 years old, legally, they chair the iep meetings.
although the program in ma goes way beyond its agricultural roots, it is still fundamentally a program to train young people to run small businesses.
if you go to hoagies (of course), there is a list of mailing lists and ways to get in contact with other parents: http://www.hoagiesgifted.org/on-line_support.htm.
the kid finds out that it’s not what they thought it was and they’d rather go in a different direction in the same field or pursue other passions entirely.
in another post, i’ll talk about the system i usually start with — it works pretty well for most kids who struggle with organization.
for whichever version, teach kids to write down all of the pulls on their time.
unless you’re required to include a calculator, i don’t think there’s much need for anything else in the pencil pocket.
do you always wear the same type of jeans (or whatever), such  that it could always live in your pocket?
i would say that in general, kids’ input shouldalways be sought in the iep process, as well as in any legal or other processes where grownups are talking with each other and making high-stakes decisions about them.
i hate to have to say it, but i really do think that therapists who work with smart folks probably should be at least reasonably smart themselves, if for no other reason than so they can follow the logic and metaphor, quick thinking, intuitive leaps, and so on.
another potential pitfall: if your system has portable elements, they can  get lost and then you have to waste time tearing up the house and screaming  about the missing pcd.
nothing separate is needed.
you’ll take ten minutes, tops, to go through the binder and the backpack and find all of the papers in those folders plus any stray calves.
my dissertation research, on the therapeutic working alliance between gifted clients and their therapists, was useful in that it showed where some of the major pitfalls were.
when i’ve had those lovely conversations with quite young kids,  their parents are typicallynot hovering around.
that makes it possible for adults to model their own process  as lifelong learners.
the kid  gets experience that both helps them understand the complexity of a field and,  oh, by the way, looks great on applications.
at home, you also need an ordinary stapler and a heavy-duty 3-hole punch  (cheaper than you might think, and a worthwhile investment).
however, if that’s a problem area, then it needs to get explicitly cued and practiced specifically until it becomes part of the pcd-use routine.
yes, that’s the potential downfall of living  life in the pile zone.
knowing a lot of facts about science or  having precocious math procedural skills (which is what precocious science-y  math-y kids often manifest with) is a great potentiator of  creative thought later in life, but it isn’t the same thing.
and what the main body of evidence shows is that, as james carville  might have said, it’s the relationship, stupid.
basically, giftedness is  not considered a relevant dimension of human difference or cultural experience.
but the goal is to avoid those last-minute crises where the science fair project and the cousin’s wedding come into sharp conflict.
(i know, your kids think they’re super and  will remember.
which  brings me to… capture method: think your way through a typical  week.
the kids there are all there, atenormous school  district expense, because they have debilitating major mental illnesses and  really honestly cannot emotionally handle being in a regular high school.
but of course, you linear folks are probably silently freaking out that i’m about to tell your kid that it’s okay to have piles of stuff all over the desk, the floor, the backpack, piling on top of each other, falling over, getting mixed up together, being indistinguishable from each other, oh, man, what a mess.
the printed-out material i’m organizing into the outline  for my book (on, perhaps not surprisingly, helping bright-to-gifted folks with  executive functioning) is in it right now — each section is a chapter.
good carry-around pockets are good for about an inch or two of paper, which handles quite a wide variety of projects.
it’s a plan for disintegrating or overflowing  notebooks which then must be laboriously recreated.
you can mimic one, sans the huge amounts ofchartjunk usually found  in kid-oriented ones, and with enough lines for the different  “subjects” in kids’ real lives, if you buy ateachers’  planner, except that teachers are often assumed not to need to plan anything on  the weekends.
[okay, so i’m probably no exception to the “highly  opinionated” thing, but i try not to go off the, “your kid is a  super-special superior being,” or the, “if you don’t do this  one right thing and you don’t do it
so what we need is a way to interview prospective providers to find out  what theyactually know, rather than what they’ll tell you they  know.
some  people like to put new things in the back, others like to put them in the front  of each section — either is fine, butpick one and stick to  it.
it took literally ten years (four as an undergrad, during which i was involved in bench research almost all the way through, and six as a grad student), before i understood what this article is talking about, and realized that my extraverted novelty-loving big-picture-oriented but not-much-of-a-schmoozing personality was not a good fit for the real life of a scientist.
you call their number from the  phone (they have an iphone app, too, of course), say your voice memo, and it  gets transcribed and sent to you in an email.
i get a lot of phone calls and emails that amount to,  “help!
personally, since i type rapidly, i often take the time to simply retype those sheets into my computer (or get an electronic copy from the teacher or the website), which eliminates concerns about losing them.
put a weekly appointment on the calendar.
i do get  some emergency-type calls (school is in the process of throwing a kid out, kid  is emotionally falling apart on a regular basis, etc.), and if that’s the  kind of situation you’re in, absolutelysend me a note or give me a call  and i’ll talk you through.
right now, you’re not taking  proper care of your child,” deep ends.
somehow, even though open file boxes aren’t all that different from hanging files in a file drawer, the kind normal human beings seem to be able to manage, i don’t lose track of stuff as easily when it’s in open filing like that.
when and under what circumstances do you get information, either from other people or from your own head, that needs to get recorded in the system?
i would say that in general, kids’ input shouldalways be  sought in the iep process, as well as in any legal or other processes where  grownups are talking with each other and making high-stakes decisions about  them.
one very strong theme in the research literature on giftedness is the idea  of social isolation, both for kids and for parents.
hint: the kid didn’t just fall out of the sky that way… there is a national association of gifted children, and every state has an association.
those tend to contribute to the same misconceptions about heroism and breakthroughs and such.
there are a lot of books written about gifted kids and how to parent them.
if a kid has iq and achievement scores both above 145, there are some great opportunities available through thedavidson institute for talent development.
if they don’t want help, we can’t force them to accept it.
it’s okay to take the time to get  your bearings.
trying something out, over a long enough time to get past the “squeeeee!”
younger kids, who usually only have one teacher for most  subjects which assign homework, can have a single hot-folder in the front of  the binder.
the portable brain (planners and task management) september 12,  2010 aimee yermish 14 comments
categories:executive functioning, surviving school tags: education, executive functioning, organization this is perhaps the most common reason people call me.
for instance, when i am doing a report on an assessment, i want to be able  to grab one or more test protocols, the history, notes i took during the  assessment, scoring worksheets and graphs i cooked up, spread them out, leaf  through them, and then shove them away easily.
perhaps because no one other than the health teacher  thinks they need writing implements.
if you’re looking for some specific suggestions for curricula, toys,  books, contests, local groups, you name it, go tohoagies.
have a  parent, therapist, guide, adult friend, or other safe adult who does not work  for the school (or court, or whatever), someone who has no reason to pressure  the child to give any specific answers, sit with the child ahead of time.
i frankly don’t think that parents (who are probably  pretty smart themselves!)
no  recriminations, just find the stragglers and round ‘em up, get ‘em  in the rings.
use a sharpie to mark  which is which!
but otherwise, relax.
categories: advocacy, executive functioning, social-emotional, special education tags: education, executive functioning, guidance, special education this is another topic i get asked about a lot… “my kid is really struggling to adjust, to make sense of himself in a world that doesn’t quite understand him.
but of course, you linear folks are probably silently freaking out that  i’m about to tell your kid that it’s okay to have piles of stuff  all over the desk, the floor, the backpack, piling on top of each other,  falling over, getting mixed up together, being indistinguishable from each  other, oh, man, what a mess.
categories: getting started tags: introduction well, now that i’ve finally graduated and don’t have papers and a dissertation to write, i’m ready to start actually writing more for the general public.
categories:  getting started, psychology, social-emotional tags: mental health, mentoring,  psychology, therapy pile containment devices: an organizational alternative august  15, 2010 aimee yermish 8 comments the two-binder system i described in the previous post is, of course, not  for everybody.
that’s normal  and accepted.
since you only get one object to play with, you have to decide whether it’s going to be a hardcopy paper calendar (like they hand out at school) or whether you’re going to use an electronic system.
principles and priorities, then, are simplicity, portability, ease of use, and resilience to not-being-used-quite-correctly.
you name it, it’s probably already there.
since our gt and 2e kids are so often not  well-matched to the in-school activities, and because there are so many choices  for out-of-school stuff, many of which simply replicate the problems with the  typical in-school activities, it becomes crucial for us to think about how we  can recognize the subtexts in an activity that will support the kids’  growth.
what might interfere with your getting thoseexact things into the system at those exact moments?
although the program in ma goes way beyond its agricultural  roots, it is still fundamentally a program to train young people to run small  businesses.
colored and sort-of-erasable mechanical pencils  do exist, although the leads are generally quite fragile — if you are  gentle, use those, otherwise, a few colors of ball-point are fine.
we work together  to develop and troubleshoot systems for corraling all those loose papers,  books, notebooks, projects, etc.
it’s a plan for oh-so-many last-minute crises when the eldritch horrors that live in kids’ lockers have mysteriously hidden the items they needed to do their homework so that the kid wasn’t able to rescue them before dashing out to the bus.
you might be a bit hypersensitive,  sure (i see that a lot, especially from adult gt folks who had educationally or  socially traumatic experiences in childhood), but in the shrink biz, they teach  us to pay attention to those feelings.
(note that for some kids with asperger’s or adhd, programs which have more structure are sometimes a better fit.
usually  when the kid is late for the bus.)
again, a topic for another post.)
the culture of the group honestly celebrates hard work and  achievement, regardless of the personal characteristics of the  achiever.
when will you need to be reminded about it?
fortunately, this isn’t a school that has gotten all security-crazed to the point where they don’t allow backpacks or tote bags.
but let me give you a few simple things to do.
and very  often what a talented kid looks like when they’re very young has very  little to do with what an eminent and creative practitioner of the field is  going to look like in adulthood.
if so, how, and what is your rationale for that?”
of course, sometimes that planning is itself a nontrivial task — in fact, it’s the first task in the assignment, and should probably be done as soon as possible.
if you can predict what the adults’ concerns about the  child’s proposals might be, offer them for the child’s  consideration.
age doesn’t restrict what you can do, how you can  do it, or who you can do it with.
that’s a rough sort that will get you through the  week.
and listen attentively to  the answer.
they neither need to know nor care which clients i’m seeing each hour.)
the gt universe is also moving into social media — many of the major  players have facebook pages (you can find minehere), blogs, twitter accounts,  etc.
but they won’t learn how to do it without guided practice.
you can  find a list of the state associations onthat same hoagies page.
(in the biz, we’d call those  countertransference reactions).
does it need to have a special place of honor on your bedside table?
plus, kids are encouraged to do various forms of demonstration for the  public.
i wish i had some easy answers.
if i had a buck every time one of my slippery-fish kiddos with adhd said,  “oh, i didn’t think we really had to do that assignment, because  she didn’t put it up on the website,” or, “i can’t do  it because i didn’t write down what the teacher said because i thought  they were supposed to put it up on the website so now i don’t quite know  what it is i have to do,” i’d be rich.
in general, gifted folk don’t do as well in rigidly manualized  treatments (which are, sadly, becoming extremely popular).
you probably don’t need wheels because you’re not going to carry all that much most of the time.
when i’m working  with someone, we do them together at the start of every session, and we rely on  a cue card or checklist that lives in the binder, too.
you’ll need a planner / assignment book / pda of some kind, but that’s a long topic, again, best saved for another post.
(i have personally see this play out, at times tragically, in a few  situations, where a newly-minted legal adult made decisions that were mostly  informed by their lack of experience.)
in fact, i think this is the single most  tricky and dangerous aspect of system design, and one on which i have the  fewest specific suggestions.
invite the child to offer their own experiences, ideas, or opinions.
the lists are *very* helpful for parents to get advice  and feedback from each other, and even just to have a place to talk about what  they’re going through without being assumed to be bragging.
you need to set up some kind of regular routine that will remind you toempty that capture-box into the actual planner.
but that  doesn’t mean i don’t think it’s worth being good at it.
categories: executive functioning,  getting started, surviving school tags: executive functioning, extracurriculars, organization out-of-schooling august 28, 2010
i’ll try to tag  things in terms of whether something is a general-interest post (or even a gt  101 faq), or whether i think it’s mostly going to be of interest to the  folks who are as geeky as i am.
do you need to create “ticklers” to remind you of things that  you’ve put off far into the future?
but they cannot substitute for having your own planner, for several reasons.
categories:executive functioning, surviving school tags: education, executive functioning, organization here’s
partly because both technology and paper products change so quickly,  it’s easy to get mired into trying to design a single best system, or to  invest a lot of money and effort setting up something that seems cool only to  have it collapse under its own weight.
similarly, in those news stories, the contribution of the lone genius scientist is overplayed, forgetting about the legions of graduate students and postdocs who actuallydo the work, as well as the centuries of giants upon whose shoulders they all stand.
when i’m handling one good-sized project with a bunch of different facets to it (e.g., job search), i have a 13-pocket accordion folder, made of durable plastic, likethis one.
i recommend the thinnest lead you won’t keep breaking, the  cheapest bulk version of that pencil you can find (.7mm, .5mm).
here is the closest match i was able to find online.
and i worry, frankly, about what is actually being taught when anything’s being taught… whether they are just continuing to promulgate the same typical myths about how gifted kids “will be just fine on their own.”
as with the paper-management system, i advise keeping things as simple as possible.
look for one that has a cover (like the one i linked)  to protect the pad from getting trashed.
whatever you choose, losing it  will be a time-wasting and anxiety-provoking crisis.
don’t back off all at once, or they will have no  idea where to go or what theycould or should expect from  themselves.
the low-tech version, of course, is the official family calendar, located at some central place in the household (usually the kitchen).
my dissertation research, on the  therapeutic working alliance between gifted clients and their therapists, was  useful in that it showed where some of the major pitfalls were.
teachers are, um, not always entirely reliable about writing in them.
you  also can’t teach organizational skills by imposing a system that is  complex and onerous enough that kids need you to direct them every inch of the  way.
either way, they started web-searching, and quickly found themselves confused and overwhelmed — there is so much information, so much jargon, all the information is contradictory, and so much of it is, well, highly opinionated.
(permission slips and forms, where someone else wants the sheet of paper back,  are not assignment sheets — they go into the hot-folder systemin the  binder, silly!)
electronic systems can be set to harass remind you of upcoming  tasks or deadlines.
she talks about how to actually implement techniques like curriculum compacting (test out of what you already know), differentiated lesson plans (have different kids do different things on the same topic), and independent projects, without spending lots of money or putting forth enormous effort.
i know, we’re all afraid to talk about it (i should really put up a  rant about gifties as a closeted minority), but we have to.
personally, if you can afford to implement it,  i favor the electronic solutions, because they offer some advantages that are  hard to duplicate in paper form.
but it didn’t help with the basic problem that most therapists think theydo get it (an example of the dunning-kruger effect, where the lack of knowledge and metacognitive skills in a domain interferes with accurate self-assessment of skill in a domain — basically, if you don’t know what you don’t know, you don’t know that you don’t know it).
a word about school-based online systems:
if you’re not there yet, that’s  fine, no one will sneer at you, but they also won’t tell you it’s  good when it’s not.
but it’s probably just as well to put that stuff in the pocket designed for it in the backpack.
parents are encouraged to participate, but they are expected to keep their own hands off the kids’ work.
and some other kids will have parental or professional  support called into play so as to prevent the worst of the failure.
i was  going to cure cancer.
i’ve already mentioned the school-year binder, and jeff mentioned rough-sort systems, but i’ll have more to say about those things later on.
(side hint/plea — if you love your work, offer to mentor kids who are curious about it!
however, i  usually actually prefer the planner to be a separate item that is small enough  and portable enough to be with you on a constant or near-constant basis.
plus, you need one ordinary divider for each kind of extra paper (lined, graph, plain) that will be required — put maybe 10-30 pages of blank paper in each.
there’s a lot that i see being done well here.
explain the purpose of the meeting, explain the questions that the adults will be thinking through, and take the time to make sure the child understands as well as they are developmentally able to.
if you use it, make sure that it’s not in a  location that makes it hard to lay paper flat and write on it.
obviously, some things might have to get moved or deleted if there is too much homework.
every single time someone asks you to commit to doing something on a  specific date?
it took literally ten years (four as an undergrad, during which i was  involved in bench research almost all the way through, and six as a grad  student), before i understood what this article is talking about, and realized  that my extraverted novelty-loving big-picture-oriented but  not-much-of-a-schmoozing personality was not a good fit for the real life of a  scientist.
teach kids the habit of rechecking the assignment sheet as they go, rather than trying to remember what the teacher expected and when any intermediate due dates might have been.
the gt universe is also moving into social media — many of the major players have facebook pages (you can find minehere), blogs, twitter accounts, etc.
it can handle some level of hierarchy, although for most complex tasks,  i think it’s okay to maintain the separate assignment sheet the teacher  handed out, or the separate outline you created for yourself in something like omnioutliner or freemind (more on that below).
there is a paid-but-not-expensive service called www.jott.com.
usually schools have good intentions in doing these — they’re honestly trying to teach kids organizational skills.
if you change your pile labels frequently, try taping a pad of small post-it notes to your letter trays so you can write and rewrite.
but if you’re not entering it immediately, it needs to actually  physically be put in the capture inbox, and it must get emptied into the real system with everything else.
each of us creates the tasks we need, but  anyone can edit any list.
3 rings to rule them all…  the zip cover does two things.
for each subject, one side of the divider holds papers the teacher has handed out which haven’t gotten into the rings yet, and the other side holds homework (and permission slips, etc) which is completed and not yet handed in.
(more on this issue below.)
that is, you need to get rid of obsolete stuff so it doesn’t make  the current stuff harder to find in the pile — if the pile has more than  about a dozen items, two dozen at the outside, you’re going to waste too  much time searching it.
we think, we write, we debate, we format, and  we complain.
you can mimic one, sans the huge amounts ofchartjunk usually found in kid-oriented ones, and with enough lines for the different “subjects” in kids’ real lives, if you buy ateachers’ planner, except that teachers are often assumed not to need to plan anything on the weekends.
you can find a complete listing of state laws affecting gifted kids atgenius denied.
some readers might be new to the whole giftedness thing, and might be  overwhelmed.
they  don’t have to show any particular talent for anything; in general, any  time someone says, “i’m interested in maybe doing x,” the  response will be, “that’s cool!
routine maintenance: you need to create structures and routines for when you look at the planner and what you do with it — every night before bed to preview the next day?
all forms of  therapy have evidence to support them, and some forms are better than others  for some clients for some kinds of situations — it’s all very  individual.
electronic systems can back up to a main computer or store the information  in the “cloud.”
because i might have a heart attack trying to get this stuff organized.)
special education  shouldn’t be something we doto kids, it should be something we do with them.
which then is used to justify blaming kids who can’t make them work (“not trying hard enough” or even “lazy”).
and few decisions are truly permanent — you can  usually change course later.
kids need to know the  rule:  it is your job to get the assignment written down,  even if your teacher screws up and doesn’t write it on the website.
if you like that size/form factor, try using alarge desktop monthly-organizer pad pinned to a corkboard.
for instance, when i am doing a report on an assessment, i want to be able to grab one or more test protocols, the history, notes i took during the assessment, scoring worksheets and graphs i cooked up, spread them out, leaf through them, and then shove them away easily.
they should also  volunteer information that fell into a kid’s blind spots, stuff they  didn’t even think to ask about.
in another  post, i’ll talk about the system i usually start with —  it works pretty well for most kids who struggle with organization.
the zip-binder usually has a zip pocket that can hold pencils and pens and anything else needed.
of course, by sheer random chance, some kids in this school will manage this system
so i don’t think i’d be too quick to assume that a kid can’t learn to tolerate the experience.
hoagies again is a great one to follow, and allow yourself to bop around and enjoy the variety of viewpoints.
in cluster grouping, instead of spreading the gifted kids out among all classes in a grade (which seems “fair” to the teachers, but makes it very hard for the gifted kids to find each other), they get put in groups of about 5-6 kids within a few classrooms.
no.  i don’t have  enough working memory for that.
dividers, one for each class, in order through the school day if that’s possible.
that’s good, because in real life, we are all captains of our own teams.
but i’d like to extend it.
every single time someone asks you to commit to doing something on a specific date?
if so, how, and what is your rationale for  that?”
properly handled, having kids participate in their own meetings can contribute to their own maturational process.
first, it protects the binder and the papers in it from getting destroyed  when something else is shoved into the backpack.
just like you need one object, it needs to have the fewest possible places where it could be.
obviously, some things might have to get moved or deleted if  there is too much homework.
if you were going to say that a kid couldn’t handle being in their own iep meeting, those kids would be high on the list of kids you’d assume couldn’t cope.
think about what information you need to  have available to you, and under what circumstances you need to have it, what  you want it to do to tell you about it.
last thing (at least until i think of another one): you need to have a system for offloading the content of the pcd as the project shifts focus.
(yes, the  recordkeeping requirements can be difficult for dysgraphic kids… but at  least in my state, they’re voluntary, there’s a long time to get  things done, and because of that “silent differentiation” effect,  they can actually serve as a forum for the kids to build skills over time.)
either way, they started web-searching, and quickly found themselves confused  and overwhelmed — there is so much information, so much jargon, all the  information is contradictory, and so much of it is, well, highly opinionated.
as i wrote each section, the folder with that pile of papers got sent to the back of the box, providing an encouraging visual of my progress.
because  the pencil pouch might be lonely without any pencils in it?)
fortunately, this isn’t a school that has gotten all security-crazed  to the point where they don’t allow backpacks or tote bags.
invite  the child to offer their own experiences, ideas, or opinions.
if you don’t change them frequently, stickers or labels will work.
(side hint/plea — if you love your work, offer to mentor kids who are  curious about it!
note, however, that the therapist who happens to be gifted needs to have  done their own work and come to some level of acceptance and understanding of  their own intelligence.
the magic word is “in the rings of the binder.”
2 double-pocket folders (note that these are designated for a specific  subject, so they’renot likely to be intended as general  “hot folders” (for carrying homework and parent handouts back and  forth), which might actually be a use, at least for one of them.
there is a tendency to let a handout or flyer or or appointment card email stand in for the event or assignment, to hold onto the paper that someone else gave you and to say, “oh, i’ll enter that into the system later.”
when and under what circumstances do you  get information, either from other people or from your own head, that needs to  get recorded in the system?
at least until someother unfinished project  catches your eye and you start doing that instead, procrastinating the crisis  (is that a transitive verb?) until some later date, probably long after its  deadline.
as i wrote  each section, the folder with that pile of papers got sent to the back of the  box, providing an encouraging visual of my progress.
perhaps obvious  in retrospect, but not obvious to a caring and empathic tween girl who loves  animals and science.
it’s highly competitive.
some classes may require more than one section  (english class is famous for this, with “language arts” and  “literature” often being separate areas) — for the secondary  divisions,ordinary dividers are fine.
partly because both technology and paper products change so quickly, it’s easy to get mired into trying to design a single best system, or to invest a lot of money and effort setting up something that seems cool only to have it collapse under its own weight.
the courses are generally terrific, and the  chance to be with other gifted kids is one that many kids treasure.
kids need real information about what those people really do all day, what the life is like, what personality characteristics and working styles are good fits for it (and which are not!).
for now, try it… embrace the piles… see how it works for you…categories: executive functioning, surviving school tags: education, executive functioning, organization
(supporting the emotional needs of the gifted) website, too.
eventually, kids can do it on their own, but we wait at each step to see that it’s happening reliably before we fade the support.
the blue-ribbon  items then compete against each other for first, second, and third place.
http://sciencecareers.sciencemag.org/career_magazine/previous_issues/articles/2010_07_23/caredit.a1000072 good morning, children, and welcome.
there are also related lists for parents of kids who are twice-exceptional, homeschooling, radically accelerated, etc.
so  they need to capture those ideas — essentially, creating an assignment  for themselves to write the information into the family calendar.
important troubleshooting tip:
another reason why it helps to have someone reasonably smart so that the kid will have a harder time snowing them if they try.
i don’t believe in using lockers for anything (other than maybe your coat), because (1) most schools don’t provide enough time to go to them (2) they add a layer of complication, a location where things can get left by accident.
but if they don’t, no worries, put them into the folder for the subject.
absent certain really seriously exacerbating circumstances,  adults have the right to make their own decisions, no matter how foolish.
ask things like, “what would you like the grownups to know?”
if you were going to say that a kid couldn’t handle being in their  own iep meeting, those kids would be high on the list of kids you’d  assume couldn’t cope.
i mentioned above that people love to teach what they know .
you can design and print your own pages pretty  easily in any word-processing software, if you prefer.
if you need more help, ask me, ask on  the mailing lists, ask on the bboards, ask wherever, and you’ll get lots  of help.
they typically getzero training in  gifted issues while in teacher school, and what they do get typically just  perpetuates the myths.
you can do this, and it’s quite an adequate system,if you are really good about keeping dates on pages, and if you are really good about emptying the thing on a very regular basis into the home-based permanent-storage binder, and if you don’t mind that this routine is going to take a little longer because you have to impose order at that point.
if nothing else, having a qualifying score on these is a cheap-and-easy way to get something objective in hand that you can share with your child’s district when they say, “oh, we have lots of kids just like that.”
why care specifically about this topic for gifted and twice-exceptional kids?
if you would like to use a paper system, i’d recommend something like a dayrunner or franklin planner, which allows you to customize sheet types and to keep adding new sheets and retiring old sheets as you go.
3 rings to rule them all… the zip cover does two things.
basically, giftedness is not considered a relevant dimension of human difference or cultural experience.
not such a bad worst case — better than finding it out six years into graduate school.
in fact, i think this is the single most tricky and dangerous aspect of system design, and one on which i have the fewest specific suggestions.
there are some kinds of situations where i keep track of stuff  linearly, sure, but most of the time, nope.
experience their own intelligence as always a positive thing.
unless you’re required to include a calculator, i don’t think  there’s much need for anything else in the pencil pocket.
there are many state and regional talent searches; find the ones serving your location on the hoagies talent search page.
(i do a lot of adapting to individual situations and styles, of course, and i will make a separate post about an alternative system that i find useful in other situations.)
categories:executive functioning, surviving school tags: education, executive  functioning, organization oh, no, my kid might be gifted!
i believe that most questions are far more complex and nuanced than most people give them credit for, and that it’s important to think in a rigorous way about the ramifications of various ideas.
very useful for groceries and errands, too!
no graph paper for either math  or science.
courses can be expensive but  financial aid is available.
if you are considering a whole-grade acceleration (grade skip), check out  the iowa acceleration scales, 3rd edition.
1 three-ring binder, 2″ thick, with lined paper and reinforcements  (i do appreciate the foresight of the tech-ed teacher.
gifted adults also struggle to make sense of ourselves in a world that often isn’t even remotely a good fit.
for a project, often you’re handling many different pieces or chunks of  paper, but the order of them not only doesn’t count, it is often really helpful to be able to move them around, spread them out on the table,  mix and match, look at various things at the same time, and so on.
if they insist, i adviseplain old medium-point black stick pens, nothing fancy.
introspection can be a valuable tool for this — books likewhat color is your parachute?
i recommend the thinnest lead you won’t keep breaking, the cheapest bulk version of that pencil you can find (.7mm, .5mm).
when i’m working with someone, we do them together at the start of every session, and we rely on a cue card or checklist that lives in the binder, too.
aimee yermish 8 comments i wrote the notes for this post this while hanging out at the middlesex  county 4-h fair this past weekend.
if you  change your pile labels frequently, try taping a pad of small post-it notes to  your letter trays so you can write and rewrite.
i actually don’t think that anyone needs pens for school.
clues on finding a therapist for a gifted client enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
there are clubs focused on a broad range of topics — kids choose a  club (or multiple clubs) based on shared interests.
if they really prefer, they can have a separate hot-folder,  but it must not be one of those cheap paper 2-pocket folders — those are  not durable enough.
if it’s not, tell  carolyn, and she’ll add it.
if what you find doesn’t come  with a zip or other means to close it and protect the pages, try adding an  elastic strap or rubber band.
some ideas on this front:
not such a bad worst case — better than  finding it out six years into graduate school.
another thing i think 4-h does really well is, tied in with the  high-standards thing, encouraging kids tobuild transferable life skills .
join 88 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
a recent publication from my esteemed  mentor, jean peterson, showed that most accredited counselor training programs  offerzero training in understanding giftedness, and those that do have  only very tiny amounts of time spent on the topic.
it needs to be easy to put information into and easy to get information out of.
in any domain, there are likely to be quite a lot of skills which can be  meaningfully taught at an appropriate level by someone who is further along the  path, such thatboth teacher and learner are able to meaningfully  increase their understanding and skill, and to derive self-efficacy from doing  so.
i don’t like flimsy clear-poly pockets — they feel  like they’re not going to hold up, and they aren’t stiff enough to  protect the papers well.
we think, we write, we debate, we format, and we complain.
same with having occasional visits in the  classroom or one-time shadowing experiences — again, the focus tends to  be on the gee-whiz aspects of the career, a sales job more than anything else.
you’ll need a planner / assignment book / pda of some kind, but  that’s a long topic, again, best saved for another post.
trying something out, over a long enough time  to get past the “squeeeee!” stage, is terrific.
short version: it’s a normal and important human need to accomplish tasks you perceive to be difficult, and to experience people you look up to seeing you do it.)
this experiment is  called “applying for funding.”
see, you can’t teach kids organizational skills just by putting them in a situation where organizational skills would be a really good idea.
for those who have read the twisted tale of my life thus far and how i got  from being the youngest in my class to being the oldest in my class, finally  finishing school (this time for sure!) at the tender age of 42, you’ll  know that i started life as a starry-eyed molecular biologist.
those go at the start of the section for the relevant class and stay there as  long as they are needed.
hint: the kid  didn’t just fall out of the sky that way… there is a national association of gifted children, and every state has an  association.
club leaders are told to encourage parents (even dads!)
so when i look at her supply list, i’m, well, a trifle concerned.
extensive assignment sheets (for major projects) usually belong in page protectors (each page in its own, please, so that you can read them easily, don’t stuff a multi-page stapled thing into something that will require you to take it out to read the inside pages!), placed in the rings at the beginning of the relevant section of thebinder.
if they really prefer, they can have a separate hot-folder, but it must not be one of those cheap paper 2-pocket folders — those are not durable enough.
but if they don’t, no worries, put them into the folder  for the subject.
along with that, by the way, if you think your child might be twice-exceptional, or if you live in a state where gifted education is handled through the special education process, the place to go iswrightslaw.
but usually the actual systems leave much  to be desired.
so i don’t think i’d be too quick to assume that a  kid can’t learn to tolerate the experience.
the cluster grouping  handbook: a schoolwide model: how to challenge gifted students and improve  achievement for all.
it’s not the easiest site to  browse through, just because there’s so much of it — use the search  tool liberally.
those go at the start of the section for the relevant class and stay there as long as they are needed.
hoagies also has a wealth of articles with every possible opinion on every possible topic, but chances are good that’s what got you overwhelmed in the first place (grin).
we seem to forget, in the phrase,  “quantum leap,” that a quantum is actually a teeny-tiny itsy-bitsy  eeeny-weeny change.
so part of the goal of the whole process is to train them to be good at the  role of team member, and eventually to take on the role of teamcaptain .
well, now that i’ve finally graduated and don’t have papers and  a dissertation to write, i’m ready to start actually writing more for the  general public.
associations vary widely in terms of what they actually provide — my experience has been that they are more focused around political advocacy than around direct service to parents or kids.
or maybe giftedness just wasn’t on their radar, but a pediatrician or teacher or relative or someone else said something.
the title might lead you to  think that it’s a pretty depressing listing, and you’d be right.
it’s awhole-family intergenerational activity.
this got a lot longer than i thought it would… there  is a lot of complexity!
what will you need to be  reminded about?
an article making the rounds, which is funny because it’s so true.
a parent’s  guide to gifted children.
what are the precise kinds of things that need to get entered?
most kids are not appointment-driven; rather, they are  project-driven (for adults, it depends a lot on the type of job you have).
if we don’t, they won’t either — remember, they think it’s not relevant.
the key is to get something that  you can get all of your information into (so that you can trust that everything  you need to know is in there), and get all of your information out of…  reliably and simply.
what i think is most helpful is for those kids to have ongoing mentor relationships with adults in the field, folks who will honestly answer questions and suggest routes by which kids can meaningfully explore and pursue their passions.
you can find a complete listing of state  laws affecting gifted kids atgenius denied.
if you use it, make sure that it’s not in a location that makes it hard to lay paper flat and write on it.
because teachers aren’t going to hit the  “staple” button on the photocopier?
first, by high school age, even kids who are below average in  intelligence tend to be aware that people are making decisions about them  without their participation.
or else, they need more adult  direction.
if everything is blue-ribbon quality, everything can get a blue ribbon.
or is there some very special papyrus to be purchased at a later  date?)
principles and  priorities, then, are simplicity, portability, ease of use, and resilience to  not-being-used-quite-correctly.
if you overflow during the course of the school year, you can always split into two big binders.
when something outgrows an accordion folder, it’s not really going to  be particularly portable anyhow.
getting professional help (from a formal assessment, a therapy relationship, a career counselor familiar with gifted kids (i.e., who won’t just say, “ooh, you’re so wonderful, you can be anything you want to be!”) can provide another helpful outside perspective.
also, have available at home a small box of page protectors, preferably matte-finish ones.
alarms may be useful, but not if  you’re just going to snooze them or ignore them — think about what  moment you’d like a reminder to come such that you will actually do the  thing before forgetting about it (we call these  “point-of-performance” reminders).
all you need is one big main pocket (for the binder and any books that  have to come with you) and one small pocket (for pencils and such).
for example, my little bird, who wants to be a veterinarian, found out from her mentor that a huge part of the job is about dealing withhumans, keeping the patients’ owners happy, because no cat ever brings themselves to the vet.
even hanging folders can work as pcds, when they’re not getting hidden in a file drawer and disappearing from memory.
i don’t have enough working memory for that.
the goal is to have one object that handles all of  the task-related information and time-related information in as simple a  fashion as possible.
i will say, however, that many disorganized kids (including everyone in my household old enough to need an organizer) do manage to hold onto electronic devices, despite everyone’s fears, so don’t assume that the kid who loses everything will also lose their electronic portable brain.)
chime in below!categories: social-emotional tags: career, guidance, mentoring, multipotentiality one of the things that i do a lot of with kids, especially kids in middle school or high school, is help them deal with the paper chase.
there are some kinds of situations where i keep track of stuff linearly, sure, but most of the time, nope.
however, particularly as we make it into adulthood — and i’m  willing to bet that there are some homeschoolers or afterschoolers who would  also be in this boat — things are often organized less around routine  stuff happening every day or week, and more around discreteprojects.
this costsnothing to implement, and not  only does the book tell a principal how and why, it even includes sample  letters to help manage the political stuff around it.
yet they do, and dialogue with them is an important part of the process both for the team and for them as they move into adulthood.
giftedness is treated with a lot of ambivalence in the usa and similar  cultures — you’re supposed to have brilliant kids, but whatever you  do, don’t talk about them.
for example, my little bird, who  wants to be a veterinarian, found out from her mentor that a huge part of the  job is about dealing withhumans, keeping the patients’ owners  happy, because no cat ever brings themselves to the vet.
i have to say, ireally like 4-h (or at least its local instantiation) as a program for gifted kids…
ideally, no paper should  ever be loose, but i live on planet earth, so i do understand.
think about what information you need to have available to you, and under what circumstances you need to have it, what you want it to do to tell you about it.
but if you don’t know what your own strengths and weaknesses are,  you can neither think about how your current style might match up nor think  intelligently about what you might want to develop about yourself in order to  become a better match.
some teachers disagree with me and insist on work being done in pen.
as the kids  get older, the records start to look very much like resumes.
(little bird was helping  run kids’ activities for a community group that needed supervision for  their own kids while parents were in a seminar… when she was 8 years  old.)
if you  overflow during the course of the school year, you can always split into two  big binders.
that is, you need to get rid of obsolete stuff so it doesn’t make the current stuff harder to find in the pile — if the pile has more than about a dozen items, two dozen at the outside, you’re going to waste too much time searching it.
some  kids are just good at piling up facts.
there can be many different ways to be good at a profession, of course!
yes,  they do note that additional items may be added during the school year as  needed.
there are also related lists  for parents of kids who are twice-exceptional, homeschooling, radically  accelerated, etc.
if you’re using portable pockets, you might be able to get away with color-coding (i do — i usually have some mnemonic association between the color and the project, and that’s enough for me).
giftedness isn’t just a school-bound phenomenon, and it doesn’t expire upon graduation — we are who we are across domains and throughout the lifespan.
(eww, that’s starting to sound like work… will you really do it reliably?
but they cannot substitute for having your own  planner, for several reasons.
you’re not crazy (okay, you might be, but i’m  not going to diagnose you via a blog).
i think therapy would help, but how do i find someone who really “gets” the whole gifted thing?”
(i do a lot of adapting to individual situations  and styles, of course, and i will make a separate post about an alternative  system that i find useful in other situations.)
very often what a field looks like when we’re kids has very little to  do with what it looks like when we’re adult practitioners.
that should get you started.
sure, you’ll probably end up with way too many ideas, and you’ll hear all sorts of, er, very strong opinions.
as i feared, little bird’s middle school has handed out their  official agenda book that they plan to periodically check that the kids are  using the way they have decided is the one right way.
so i  tend to be in the mode of blaise pascal’s famous quote (often attributed  to mark twain), “i wrote you a long letter, because i didn’t have  time to write you a short letter.”
not every kid has easy access to a family friend who just happens to be in your field.)
(my family needs to know that on a certain day between certain times, i am seeing clients and am therefore unavailable.
better to let it  be unfinished or imperfect and to create a learning opportunity for the kid.
(note that both paper and electronic systems are likely to be royally messed up by laundering, and both can often be restored by various heroic means.
again, i tend to be skeptical of two-step systems, but they’re better than an implied system where one of the steps is inevitably going to be, “forget to enter the information where it actually needs to go.”
a day or a week or a month here or there isn’t going to make the difference between a fulfilling life of scholarship, career, and love, and a kid who crashes and burns and ends up on skid row.
they  are my go-to pcds.
and maybe they’ll be okay letting her use an electronic pda.
(since i work primarily with gifted andmultiply-exceptional kids, they tend to be able to understand this information at very young ages, and they tend to be very upset when they are aware of people talking about them without seeking their input.)
at least until someother unfinished project catches your eye and you start doing that instead, procrastinating the crisis (is that a transitive verb?) until some later date, probably long after its deadline.
even hanging folders can work as pcds, when  they’re not getting hidden in a file drawer and disappearing from memory.
note, however, that the therapist who happens to be gifted needs to have done their own work and come to some level of acceptance and understanding of their own intelligence.
one very strong theme in the research literature on giftedness is the idea of social isolation, both for kids and for parents.
anything else is overcomplexificationisticalesque.
in order to  prevent the crises when events collide, it really does help to have a system  that everyone can use.
so teach them to write an assignment for, e.g.,   ”schedule time to work on book report,” the day the book  report is assigned.
however, i usually actually prefer the planner to be a separate item that is small enough and portable enough to be with you on a constant or near-constant basis.
all pieces of paper get saved until the  end of the year (actually, for a few years, if you think you might have any  interaction with the special education system).
you also can’t teach organizational skills by imposing a system that is complex and onerous enough that kids need you to direct them every inch of the way.
they see us being wonderful at  everything, and then try to hold themselves to those impossibly high standards.
you need one (1 (just one (not seven, but one))) 3-ring zip-binder, the  kind where you have maybe a 1.5″ ring binder in a cloth cover that zips  all the way around (here’s anexample).
for kids in school, that may not be a show-stopper; the times they get  told things that need to get into the binder usuallyare the times when  that zip-binder will be right with them.
the biggest potential  downfall of the pcd system is that they need to be labeled.
if you  have a system like this, consider also implementing a regular adult task that  involves sitting down with the kid and extracting the relevant information from  the kid’s planner.
tell them that it’s not an admission of fault or imperfection that they develop and use a system so that they don’t have to waste brain cycles remembering.)
sure, you could use a prettyportfolio, and that’s what i use now for walking-around notetaking-with-clients, but there’s some nice urban chic happening with the aluminum thing.
remember that i’m here giving you permission to relax,  take a breath, work with the school, don’t give up, accept that you  don’t have to find a perfect solution right away, and that there’s  no one right way to do anything.
in our family, we manage time with google calendars — we have one for the kids (they might end up with one each when they get older), one for the parents’ public information, and one for each parent’s private information.
to-do lists are good for managing tasks, while calendars are good for managing time.
and you can use them for the active test-taking, too, and they don’t glow.
plus, most families have a raft of out-of-schooling activities and other pulls on their time.
the single hardest thing for me to do while writing is to get my thoughts into linear form.
that’s a rough sort that will get you through the week.
if you feel like you’re getting a dismissive or hostile reaction,go somewhere else and don’t feel bad about it.
gifted kids tend to have gifted parents,  which can be really tough for them.
(i long ago gave up filing “that is neat and i might want it  someday” stuff in my filing cabinets, because other than the few really  important things, i would tend to forget not just what i named the file it got  put in, but eventhat it ever existed at all.)
using them requires that you check in several different places in order to  find out what you have to do.
2 three-ring binders, 1″ thick, (one of which is noted as needing  filler paper, the other is not.
certainly, there is a very tiny minority of children who will not be able to handle it, even with guidance and training and practice.
another great organization is supporting the emotional needs of the gifted : besides having some very goodarticles on the social-emotional experience of giftedness, they train facilitators to run local parent support groups.
(side note: those who are fans of ross greene and stuart ablon’s work around teaching kids to self-regulate will recognize this process, and those who are not familiar with it should readtheir book (professionals should read this one) or check out the website.
groups, when they exist for a specific purpose, are formed  by mutual consensus.
there are times when the person the paperwork is helping is yourself,  especially when you’re running a small business.)
but this list is not giving me all the warm fuzzy back-to-school feeling  i’m hoping for.
hence the topic of this post.
if they need to have an educational advocate, therapist, adult friend, or  other non-parental helpful person sitting next to them to help them understand  what is going on and to help them figure out how to express their own ideas  appropriately, then that’s a great service to provide for them.
for us oldsters, or for older kids who are homeschooling or who do a lot ofout-of-school activities, the smallest item you can get the information into reliably and neatly and can keep on your person, without forgetting it’s there and laundering it (sigh) is probably best, because it facilitates efficient idea capture.
it’s not the easiest site to browse through, just because there’s so much of it — use the search tool liberally.
i’m with william of ockham here: do not multiply entities needlessly.
if you don’t change them  frequently, stickers or labels will work.
i’d have to add the constant stream of news stories  in which some tiny incremental improvement in the state of our collective  knowledge about how some ridiculously complicated natural system works and what  we can do about some immense problem of human suffering, some little grain of  sand added to the sandcastle of the global university, is oversimplified and  treated as an amazing breakthrough.
4-h is a very flexible program, which can definitely be  bewildering at times, but the flexibility is great for gifted and 2e kids.
of course, by sheer random chance, some kids in this school will manage  this system okay.
(yeah, i’m not enthusiastic about that,  either.)
it’s a plan for  oh-so-many last-minute crises when the eldritch horrors that live in  kids’ lockers have mysteriously hidden the items they needed to do their  homework so that the kid wasn’t able to rescue them before dashing out to  the bus.
although some bumbling is inevitable in any volunteer effort, this doesn’t have to create a blind-leading-the-blind race to the bottom.
these are a must for physics or any other course involving diagrams, and really useful for a lot of note-taking enterprises.
for a project, often you’re handling many different pieces or chunks of paper, but the order of them not only doesn’t count, it is often really helpful to be able to move them around, spread them out on the table, mix and match, look at various things at the same time, and so on.
they neither need to know nor care which clients  i’m seeing each hour.)
plus, a lot of providers seem to think that “gifted” means  “fiscally gifted,” and they see us as high-functioning clients who  are likely to provide a nice revenue stream (as tom lehrer said, they think  they’re specializing in “diseases of the rich“), so they  advertise claiming this as a specialty area.
so it’s like in education: if you ask someone if they understand giftedness, they’ll all tell you they do, but that doesn’t mean a whole heck of a lot.
with a list like this,  we’re definitely going to need to call for reinforcements at some point.)
to reduce costs, try just aregular half-sheet 3-ring binder, for which you can buy refills (check that they’re compatible in hole placement!) or print/chop/hole-punch your own.
we work together to develop and troubleshoot systems for corraling all those loose papers, books, notebooks, projects, etc.
in order to prevent the crises when events collide, it really does help to have a system that everyone can use.
mechanical pencils are now widely available in.9mm width, which is thick enough even for most kids who press too hard.
get something made of polypropylene, likethis.
i like side-loading ones best, because it’s easier to get a  glimpse of what’s on the papers.
the problem i have with this system is that it’s usually hard for kids to write in these, just because they’re not in the kitchen  when most of the information they need to write down is given to them.
it’s not just for “explosive” kids.)
well, my own beloved little bird is about to embark upon middle school (cue  the scary music), and the good news is that she is pretty run-of-the-mill in  terms of keeping track of stuff — no worse than most kids her age.
they’re thicker plastic than most, and they have elastic on the corners so they close and open easily, none of that mucking about with noisy velcro or time-consuming string.
categories: getting started tags:  introduction hello, world!
(permission slips and forms, where someone else wants the sheet of paper back, are not assignment sheets — they go into the hot-folder systemin the binder, silly!)
(personally, i  have a comic-villain evil laugh that i reserve for such situations.)
personally, if you can afford to implement it, i favor the electronic solutions, because they offer some advantages that are hard to duplicate in paper form.
i suggest that kids plan in liberal amounts of “slush time,” planning a set of benchmarks that keeps them comfortably ahead of schedule, to deal with the inevitable complexities and delays that arise.
consultation, financial support, classes for kids and parents, all sorts  of nice stuff.
that’s good, because in real life, we are all captains of our own  teams.
it can handle some level of hierarchy, although for most complex tasks, i think it’s okay to maintain the separate assignment sheet the teacher handed out, or the separate outline you created for yourself in something like omnioutliner or freemind (more on that below).
then we fade back to having the parent remind them to do it and  check afterwards that it’s done correctly.
if you are not forced to do otherwise,  you should routinely use pale-lined graph paper filler (something likethis) for  everything in math and science classes.
also,  sometimes you want to toss a small book or workbook right into the pile (and  might be tempted to shove papers into the book in order to corral them.
i’m pretty tuned in to such things (having had a fairly  typical gt-kid childhood, i’m actually more like “hypervigilant  about such things”), and i haven’t heard any of the typical  “catty” comments about how someone is too young, or taking too  many prizes, or making other kids feel bad, or should let someone else have a  turn at winning, or must have gotten inappropriate help from a grownup, or  whatever.
a whiteboard that shows two months is okay, but i tend to prefer systems that allow the entry of information arbitrarily far into the future and don’t require periodic recopying.
the title might lead you to think that it’s a pretty depressing listing, and you’d be right.
but, as i tell my own kids, unless something is bleeding or on fire, chances are good that this isn’t an emergency.
organizing tasks and time is a lifelong skill.
join 88 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
(this really does happen.
now think about most appointment books: they show you your day in terms  of half-hour blocks.
it’s a therapeutic high school on the campus ofmclean hospital, one of the world’s premier psychiatric hospitals.
very helpful for breaking the isolation and processing  one’s own experiences of growing up gifted.
besides having some very goodarticles on the social-emotional  experience of giftedness, they train facilitators to run local parent support  groups.
i lovingly call mine my “portable brain.”
you can use an ordinary monthly calendar, or whatever other calendar system is both easy for everyone to write in and easy for everyone to check.
see, some of us have brains that, well, we think best in piles and  networks.
no actual hot-folder.
(even the judges for the cloverbuds (kids ages 5-7) are told not to just  say, “nice job!”)
there are some very good materials available on theseng
looking mainly for symptom relief, but for a client who needs a long-term  mentor relationship, the respondents in my study were pretty clear on the  topic… they need to be pretty smart.
but  it’s probably just as well to put that stuff in the pocket designed for  it in the backpack.
1 three-ring binder, 1.5″ thick, with side pockets (because handouts  fall out of them so much more easily than out of those pesky pocket folders),  10 tab dividers, 25 sheets of lined paper, and 3 pens or pencils (for health.
kids who show promise in these areas get noticed and encouraged to  take on more responsibility.
literally, i say, “no, please don’t give me a  reminder card, let me just write the appointment down right now.”
the club (or other voluntary subgrouping) might do things together, but kids do lots of things on their own.
it can also be helpful for kids to ask the adults in their lives to share their impressions — chances are good that no one vision of a kid will be perfectly accurate, but when diverse sources start to give convergent data, that’s something to take seriously.
what i think is most helpful is for  those kids to have ongoing mentor relationships with adults in the field, folks  who will honestly answer questions and suggest routes by which kids can  meaningfully explore and pursue their passions.
do you need to create “ticklers” to remind you of things that you’ve put off far into the future?
(yes, i’ll explain that more at some point.
last thing (at least until i think of another one): you need to have a  system for offloading the content of the pcd as the project shifts focus.
so i tend to be in the mode of blaise pascal’s famous quote (often attributed to mark twain), “i wrote you a long letter, because i didn’t have time to write you a short letter.”
giftedness isn’t just a school-bound  phenomenon, and it doesn’t expire upon graduation — we are who we  are across domains and throughout the lifespan.
usually schools have good intentions in doing these  — they’re honestly trying to teach kids organizational skills.
all offer low-cost  methods for kids to take out-of-level achievement tests (because they’d  hit the ceilings of grade-level achievement tests, of course!), qualifying them  to take courses designed for gifted kids.
is it just homework, or do you have other activities that also create things you have to do and pulls on your time?
real scientists never enter a lab.
this is a great thing for them to learn to do, and a nice  well-constructed venue for them to learn to do it in.
august 3, 2010  aimee yermish 17 comments
if you go to hoagies (of course),  there is a list of mailing lists and ways to get in contact with other parents: http://www.hoagiesgifted.org/on-line_support.htm.
well, my own beloved little bird is about to embark upon middle school (cue the scary music), and the good news is that she is pretty run-of-the-mill in terms of keeping track of stuff — no worse than most kids her age.
(since i work primarily with  gifted andmultiply-exceptional kids, they tend to be able to understand this  information at very young ages, and they tend to be very upset when they are  aware of people talking about them without seeking their input.)
you’ll take ten  minutes, tops, to go through the binder and the backpack and find all of the  papers in those folders plus any stray calves.
teaching gifted kids in the regular classroom: strategies and techniques every teacher can use to meet the academic needs of the gifted and talented(2nd. ed).
highlighting is almost completely useless as an active reading strategy for most people — it makes you feel like you’re doing something, but what you’re typically doing is a very surface-level syntactic analysis to find the key phrases without actually processing the information.
for now, try it… embrace the piles… see how it works for  you… categories: executive functioning, surviving school tags:  education, executive functioning, organization on organization: do not multiply entities needlessly august 11,  2010 aimee yermish 25 comments
don’t worry about order within the rings unless you  like to do it — i’d rather see you be consistent about doing a  pretty good job than be perfect but never quite get around to it.
don’t believe the press about “evidence-based treatments.”
start with a simple backpack or tote.
kids need real information about what those people really do all day, what  the life is like, what personality characteristics and working styles are good  fits for it (and which are not!).
even if the child is not eligible (i always have to remind people who come to me for testing that by the math of the normal curve, 96% of kids above 130 are *not* above 145), ditd has somepublic-access bulletin boards with useful information and discussions as well, and adatabase of articles on specific topics.
i have some alternatives, which i’ll cover in another post.
those tend to contribute to the same misconceptions about heroism and  breakthroughs and such.
cognitive-behavioral techniques can be really usefulas tools, but a flexible and collaborative approach is going to be key.
(oh, look,  there’s a teen version — i haven’t read it yet, but i’d  consider that a good bet as a starting point) can help structure some aspects  of the exploration.
these are used for things like course syllabi or assignment sheets, reference sheets for generic assignments (e.g., “requirements for writing up a problem of the week”), or other important long-term reference material (a periodic table for chemistry, etc).
it likes to  collect lots of interesting little things (binder clips, staplers, etc), but  we’re back to william of ockham there – if you don’t need it,  get rid of it.
what are the precise kinds of things that  need to get entered?
it’s okay to take the time to get your bearings.
and,  admittedly sometimes the systems are for the convenience of the teachers  — e.g., they want to be able to collect notebooks and take them home to  check that kids are doing their work.
if a kid cannot behave in the meeting or tolerate having all of those grownups talking about them or about their situation, okay, fine.
we’re often doing this in whatever teeny bits of wiggle room we can find within the “systems” imposed upon them by their schools.
first, it protects the binder and the papers in it from getting destroyed when something else is shoved into the backpack.
carolyn k  curates probably the largest single pile of links to all things gifted.
we work our whole lives to become, if  we’re lucky, managers of sorts.
all you need is one big main pocket (for the binder and any books that have to come with you) and one small pocket (for pencils and such).
the zip-binder usually has a zip pocket that can hold pencils and pens and  anything else needed.
need to read every book out there —  there’s not going to be that much new information once you’ve read  one.
too much empty air and  paper being carried around.
it’s a  research-based measure designed to help parents and administrators talk in a  holistic fashion about a kid when making placement decisions.
consider putting a  repeating appointment on your calendar, or a repeating task on your task-list,  and setting your system to nag remind you to do it.
most folks never even think about this issue… on which day in the planner do you write your homework?
yes, that’s the potential downfall of living life in the pile zone.
volume can be high at times — try using your mail program to sort messages into a folder, and if you get behind by a week or more, don’t feel bad about deleting.
none of that false  feel-good “self-esteem” nonsense that pervades a lot of kids’  activities these days, where, as the dodo bird says, “everybody has won, and all must have prizes.”
some of the nastiest  and most invalidating responses i’ve personally experienced or heard  about in my research came from professionals who were themselves very likely to  be highly intelligent.
special education shouldn’t be something we doto kids, it should be something we do with them.
occasionally, if it’s really only a few pieces of paper and the  project is really short term, i do grab one of those awful two-pocket paper  folders (see, i despise them so much i’m not even making a link) that  seem to spawn in my closet (they are refugees, i think, from little  bird’s elementary school’s silly ideas about how to teach kids to  organize themselves).
separate pencil cases are just more superfluositicalextracalifragilisticity.
1 mini stapler (why?
but even if this is actually a well-thought-out system that i’m  just totally misconstruing, i’m sure there are plenty of you out there  who are about to be struggling with a school-imposed organizational nightmare.
these are used for things like course syllabi or  assignment sheets, reference sheets for generic assignments (e.g.,  “requirements for writing up a problem of the week”), or other  important long-term reference material (a periodic table for chemistry, etc).
use clear plastic durable slash-folder dividers, like these.
you need to be in the middle ground, where some guidance will help them  gradually become able to do it on their own.
somehow, even though open  file boxes aren’t all that different from hanging files in a file drawer,  the kind normal human beings seem to be able to manage, i don’t lose  track of stuff as easily when it’s in open filing like that.
but most of the time, i use a file pocket.
this  practice tends to support procrastination.
you  can use an ordinary monthly calendar, or whatever other calendar system is both easy for everyone to write in and easy for everyone to check.
no kidding  — i’ve had to write into kids’ ieps and 504 plans that they  had to beallowed to use a bag instead of carrying everything loose.
whatever you choose, losing it will be a time-wasting and anxiety-provoking crisis.
so what we need is a way to interview prospective providers to find out what theyactually know, rather than what they’ll tell you they know.
you don’t have to deal with discontinuities in time.
i have to say that every time i talk with a 4-h kid, even those  5-7-year-old cloverbuds, i am astounded at how well they canhave those  conversations with an unfamiliar kid, older kid, or adult.
introspection can be a valuable tool for this  — books likewhat color is your parachute?
i cannot find a link to the ones i use — i happened to spot these in a dollar store a few years ago, bought a couple, realized how excellent they were, went back and bought some more, and haven’t seen them in any store since.
i’m frankly surprised to see this list, and i hope that i’m wrong about some of my conjectures.
i cannot find  a link to the ones i use — i happened to spot these in a dollar store a  few years ago, bought a couple, realized how excellent they were, went back and  bought some more, and haven’t seen them in any store since.
hopefully it stays in the art room most of the time.
you can do this, and it’s  quite an adequate system,if you are really good about keeping dates on  pages, and if you are really good about emptying the thing on a very regular  basis into the home-based permanent-storage binder, and if you don’t mind  that this routine is going to take a little longer because you have to impose  order at that point.
right now, you’re not taking proper care of your child,” deep ends.
another great organization is supporting the emotional needs of the gifted :
i hate to have to say it, but i really do think that therapists who work  with smart folks probably should be at least reasonably smart themselves, if  for no other reason than so they can follow the logic and metaphor, quick  thinking, intuitive leaps, and so on.
kids choose projects they’re interested in, rather  than being told what they have to work on or being provided with a narrow menu  of acceptable choices.
i literally can’t find anything when i use time as the organizing principle.
i wrote the notes for this post this while hanging out at the middlesex county 4-h fair this past weekend.
i know this might sound silly, but if your capture system requires a  writing implement, then you need a writing implement attached to it, so no time  is wasted searching.
every day before you leave  school to make sure you’ve gotten the right items from your locker?
teach kids the habit of rechecking  the assignment sheet as they go, rather than trying to remember what the  teacher expected and when any intermediate due dates might have been.
the two-binder system i described in the previous post is, of course, not for everybody.
given that the notebook system they’ve chosen is even worse than i’d feared (i might even need to do another rant!), let’s just say i’m a bit skeptical.
your kid is wonderful and terrific and you are feeling the same awesome responsibility as the custodian of a young life as all good parents do.
knowing a lot of facts about science or having precocious math procedural skills (which is what precocious science-y math-y kids often manifest with) is a great potentiator of creative thought later in life, but it isn’t the same thing.
but heaven forbid she could have asked for a similar item available at,  oh, say, a big-box craft or office supply store, instead of requiring a special  trip to an art store or paying expensive shipping for an online order) 1 zippered pencil pouch (recommended) (i’m wondering why they  aren’t requiring it.
i have about eight of these.
we attend meetings and send e-mails.
i do get some emergency-type calls (school is in the process of throwing a kid out, kid is emotionally falling apart on a regular basis, etc.), and if that’s the kind of situation you’re in, absolutelysend me a note or give me a call
literally, i say, “no, please don’t give me a reminder card, let me just write the appointment down right now.”
don’t worry about order within the rings unless you like to do it — i’d rather see you be consistent about doing a pretty good job than be perfect but never quite get around to it.
when papers get into your hands, ideally, they should go into the rings of the binder.
if what you do is terrific, they’ll tell  you, but they’llstill tell you how to make it even better.
together  with their kids.
or they could call me for a short-term professional consultation — i’m thrilled  to be able to spread the knowledge here.
since our gt and 2e kids are so often not well-matched to the in-school activities, and because there are so many choices for out-of-school stuff, many of which simply replicate the problems with the typical in-school activities, it becomes crucial for us to think about how we can recognize the subtexts in an activity that will support the kids’ growth.
speaking of the culture of the group, this is one that tends to attract a crowd marked bycuriosity and passion, highly enriched for bright-to-gifted folks.
which brings me to… capture method: think your way through a typical week.
i also don’t like ones that have a rigid gusset — they’re just asking to get crushed, and they take up too much space when they’re not full.
pay attention not just to the content of the responses, but also to the  nonverbal signals and your gut feeling about how they’re responding to  the notion.
you will be marked down, and it will be your  fault, and i will have no sympathy.
note that you now already have a “hot folder” system  in place.
knowing about your own personal learning and working profile, in its many dimensions (subject for a future post), is important.
the kids there are all there, atenormous school district expense, because they have debilitating major mental illnesses and really honestly cannot emotionally handle being in a regular high school.
it works well in situations where there are a lot of routine things going on, stuff happening on a daily or weekly basis in almost every area of study.
if you are not forced to do otherwise, you should routinely use pale-lined graph paper filler (something likethis) for everything in math and science classes.
cognitive-behavioral techniques can be really usefulas tools,  but a flexible and collaborative approach is going to be key.
i tend to have opinions on giftedness, learning  disabilities, education, psychology, and the interface between all of those.
and a partridge in a pear tree.
so my point in making this post?  gifted kids need career guidance.
the day-to-day job of a scientist — a real one —  isn’t too different from that of, say, an insurance claims adjuster.
and yet another — when my dishwasher had a catastrophic failure and i found myself managing an insurance company and a kitchen remodel while in grad school (i do not recommend this for amusement), there were all sorts of piles of stuff related to that.
kids are likely to need a lot of guidance in the process of breaking down tasks, keeping track of subtasks, redoing the schedule when things don’t work out the way they planned, and generally keeping any complex project on track (beyond the scope of this already-very-long post).
what  would a good solution look like for you?”
it has too many moving parts.
highlighting is almost completely useless as an active reading  strategy for most people — it makes you feel like you’re doing  something, but what you’re typically doing is a very surface-level  syntactic analysis to find the key phrases without actually processing the  information.
use a sharpie to mark which is which!
both of these are from the same folks as nation deceived.
a day or a week  or a month here or there isn’t going to make the difference between a  fulfilling life of scholarship, career, and love, and a kid who crashes and  burns and ends up on skid row.
homeschooling?) are created equal, so it’s worth thinking about what would characterize good ones.
(3) stop what you’re doing, sharpen the pencil successfully (which includes not dropping piles of shavings all over the floor when you have to keep opening the thing up to pry yet another broken point out of the razor), remember what it was you were doing, and then get back going again.
no colored pens or pencils.
every month to offload old pages and make sure you have new blank ones?
in fact, the only nice thing i can say about most planner books provided  by the school is that they tend to be organized by subject, rather than by  time.
dividers, one for each class, in order through the school day if  that’s possible.
there is a tendency to  let a handout or flyer or or appointment card email stand in for the event or  assignment, to hold onto the paper that someone else gave you and to say,  “oh, i’ll enter that into the system later.”
i also don’t think that highlighters have much use during the school  day.
(yeah, i’m not enthusiastic about that, either.)
no paper gets  thrown out, even if the teacher says you don’t need to keep it or  it’s stupid or whatever.
the printed-out material i’m organizing into the outline for my book (on, perhaps not surprisingly, helping bright-to-gifted folks with executive functioning) is in it right now — each section is a chapter.
in general, gifted folk don’t do as well in rigidly manualized treatments (which are, sadly, becoming extremely popular).
have you found it necessary to adapt your approach in working with gifted folks?
are there kids for whom this kind of self-determination is not a realistic  goal?
i love to hear suggestions from people about specific topics or questions  they’d like me to address, so feel free to comment here or to send me a  private email (aimee@davincilearning.org).
if they want to self-educate, the (btw, i would recommend themodels of counseling gifted children, adolescents, and young adults book, edited by jean peterson and sal medaglio, for a professional to self-educate on the topic).
(in the biz, we’d call those countertransference reactions).
the goal is to help us figure out whowe are and how to act like ourselves, just in an adaptive way.
so part of the goal of the whole process is to train them to be good at the role of team member, and eventually to take on the role of teamcaptain .
at the same time, if you’re running out of filler paper, refill.
gifted adults also struggle to make sense of ourselves in a world that often isn’t  even remotely a good fit.
i have about  eight of these.
and it’s not just a problem for kids, either.
ask things  like, “what would you like the grownups to know?”  ”
but even if this is actually a well-thought-out system that i’m just totally misconstruing, i’m sure there are plenty of you out there who are about to be struggling with a school-imposed organizational nightmare.
when something outgrows an accordion folder, it’s not really going to be particularly portable anyhow.
look for one that has a cover (like the one i linked) to protect the pad from getting trashed.
there’s even a companion cd-rom with customizable forms for the  teachers to use.
volume can be high at times — try using your mail  program to sort messages into a folder, and if you get behind by a week or  more, don’t feel bad about deleting.
sometimes we foreclose too early, other times we wander without direction.
not that you shouldn’t  include a note on the day something is due (after all, it will help you  remember to hand it in!), but that’s rarely sufficient.
we  attend meetings and send e-mails.
when papers get into your hands, ideally, they should go into the rings of  the binder.
for those who have read the twisted tale of my life thus far and how i got from being the youngest in my class to being the oldest in my class, finally finishing school (this time for sure!)
consultation, financial support, classes for kids and parents, all sorts of nice stuff.
which  is to say she’s not very good at it.
if you feel like you’re getting a dismissive or hostile  reaction,go somewhere else and don’t feel bad about it.
otherwise, your inbox will fill up too fast with stuff that doesn’t  need to be in the capture  box and stuff will get lost.
gifted folks are just like everyone else except that we got as in school
both of these showed up in my research as a very common theme in terms of what distinguished successful from unsuccessful alliances.
it’s a plan for disintegrating or overflowing notebooks which then must be laboriously recreated.
the goal is to have one object that handles all of the task-related information and time-related information in as simple a fashion as possible.
i can’t say as i’ve found a bulletproof system for keeping track of tasks (what needs to be done) and time (when it will be done and when it will be completed), but let me at least raise the issues i think need to be considered in the process.
alarms may be useful, but not if you’re just going to snooze them or ignore them — think about what moment
a word about school-based online systems: these are nice things to have,as a backup for when some information escapes the best efforts to corral it, and as a way for adults who are helping a kid to know the answer to the question, “what do you have for homework tonight?”
it works well in situations where there are a lot of routine  things going on, stuff happening on a daily or weekly basis in almost every  area of study.
this is a huge problem.
if you need more help, ask me, ask on the mailing lists, ask on the bboards, ask wherever, and you’ll get lots of help.
sports, music, arts, classes, practice times,  religious services, family dinners, parties, company, hang-out-with-friends, tv  shows you can’t bear to miss, whatever it is that you spend time on, if  you’re going to want to spend time on it and you’re not going to  want to do homework during that time, it’s a good idea to put it in the  calendar.
if a kid cannot behave in the meeting or tolerate having all of those  grownups talking about them or about their situation, okay, fine.
the kid finds out that it’s not what they thought it was and  they’d rather go in a different direction in the same field or pursue  other passions entirely.
all forms of therapy have evidence to support them, and some forms are better than others for some clients for some kinds of situations — it’s all very individual.
i like side-loading ones best, because it’s easier to get a glimpse of what’s on the papers.
i had one  just like this one for years while in grad school the first time — i used  letter trays on my desk and just used this lovely portable thing to take notes  and hold important pieces of paper (hot-folder items) in the storage box (which  also can hold a pencil).
many parents who call me are looking to find out about what their school districts are obligated to do.
to-do lists are good for managing tasks, while calendars are  good for managing time.
they’re thicker plastic than most, and they have elastic  on the corners so they close and open easily, none of that mucking about with  noisy velcro or time-consuming string.
they require that you  (1) keep a sharpener in the pencil pocket (2) notice when the point has gotten  too dull for neat handwriting (which most kids with executive functioning  problems have a surprisingly hard time with!)
and a third potential pitfall: when you switch away from that project to another task (as us low-working-memory high-idea-generation types do so often), the pileneeds to get swept back into the pcd.
a single club might have kids from ages  5 to 18.
similarly, in those news stories, the contribution of  the lone genius scientist is overplayed, forgetting about the legions of  graduate students and postdocs who actuallydo the work, as well as the  centuries of giants upon whose shoulders they all stand.
kids whose records are clear, understandable, and comprehensive  get recognized forthose efforts, even if the projects were not all  that elaborate or impressive.
another potential pitfall: if your system has portable elements, they can get lost and then you have to waste time tearing up the house and screaming about the missing pcd.
(my family needs to know  that on a certain day between certain times, i am seeing clients and am  therefore unavailable.
same with having occasional visits in the classroom or one-time shadowing experiences — again, the focus tends to be on the gee-whiz aspects of the career, a sales job more than anything else.
getting  professional help (from a formal assessment, a therapy relationship, a career  counselor familiar with gifted kids (i.e., who won’t just say,  “ooh, you’re so wonderful, you can be anything you want to  be!”) can provide another helpful outside perspective.
categories: getting started tags: introduction oh, no, my kid might be gifted!
also, i would want someone who in your initial interview seems to have some level of personal empathy with those experiences — they don’t necessarily have to have had them themselves, but it helps if they’re close enough that they didn’t experience their own intelligence as always a positive thing.
birdie likes school and i think she’s getting a good education.
if you are considering a whole-grade acceleration (grade skip), check out the iowa acceleration scales, 3rd edition.
they getreal feedback that  is supportive but honest and specific.
we seem to forget, in the phrase, “quantum leap,” that a quantum is actually a teeny-tiny itsy-bitsy eeeny-weeny change.
personally, since i  type rapidly, i often take the time to simply retype those sheets into my  computer (or get an electronic copy from the teacher or the website), which  eliminates concerns about losing them.
okay, i promised some ideas on planners and how to keep track of  assignments.
note that you now already have a “hot folder” system in place.
this experiment is called “applying for funding.”
how you  would like that reminder to happen?
we oversee, we organize, and we teach.
maybe they  always assumed that their kids would be gifted, but had also assumed that there  would be clear and easy guidance and help available from the school  system.
if you like that size/form  factor, try using alarge desktop monthly-organizer pad pinned to a corkboard.
it’s a research-based measure designed to help parents and administrators talk in a holistic fashion about a kid when making placement decisions.
people who don’t know much about brains like to call this a right-brained processing style, or a visual processing style (sorry, both of those concepts would get me laughed out of the cool neuropsych parties — the current research on the topic is much more complex than any such simple-minded dichotomy would support).
i recommend  also writing tasks on… the day you’re going to work on it.
categories: executive functioning, outside of school, social-emotional tags: executive functioning, exploration, extracurriculars, mentoring, multipotentiality
1 bienfang notesketch 8.5″x11″ horizontal lines (now  there’s an art teacher who knows what she wants.
a specific pocket in your purse or backpack?
and maybe  they’ll be okay letting her use an electronic pda.
there are many state and regional talent searches; find the ones serving  your location on the hoagies talent search page.
the day it was assigned?
the concept here is that each pile now  has a pigeonhole to go into.
so i advise making a personal rule: ”i will not say, ‘i’ll write that down later.’”
my current go-to book — it’s comprehensive, realistic, calm, not worshipful or overblown or dismissive — is webb, j.t., gore, j.l., amend, e.r., & devries, a.r. (2007).
try to find highlighters that aren’t fluorescent (= superstimulating).
you can try asking me privately if i know anyone in your geographical area, and i’ll try, but no guarantees.
if you can get yourself to commit to a  consistent location (say, a desk or other workspace, which i’ll have  hints for in another post), then the discipline becomes that the pcds always  get returned to that location, not just dropped wherever they happen to be when  your brain moves on to another task.
separate pencil cases are just more  superfluositicalextracalifragilisticity.
i’d be a good grantwriter, i suppose, but ugh, not what i want to actually do for a living.
that’s what most teachers  tell kids to do, but it’s probably the least useful time to write  something — it’s going to vanish into the  “this-already-happened” ether much too quickly.
having them is better than not having them.
my personal preference is for engineering paper, but that’s a topic for another post.
if you’re looking for some specific suggestions for curricula, toys, books, contests, local groups, you name it, go tohoagies.
or else, they need more adult direction.
i  literally can’t find anything when i use time as the organizing  principle.
and listen attentively to the answer.
don’t  believe the press about “evidence-based treatments.”
certainly,all kids benefit from high-quality activities.
and  you can use them for the active test-taking, too, and they don’t glow.
so they need to capture those ideas — essentially, creating an assignment for themselves to write the information into the family calendar.
it’s a plan for lost and crumpled  papers, shoveddeep into the recesses of the backpack until they turn into  petroleum products.
if  nothing else, having a qualifying score on these is a cheap-and-easy way to get  something objective in hand that you can share with your child’s district  when they say, “oh, we have lots of kids just like that.”
there are some very good materials available on theseng (supporting the emotional needs of the gifted) website, too.
every day before you leave school to make sure you’ve gotten the right items from your locker?
they require that you (1) keep a sharpener in the pencil pocket (2) notice when the point has gotten too dull for neat handwriting (which most kids with executive functioning problems have a surprisingly hard time with!)
a small portable hanging-file box  (here’s anopen one, and here’s a somewhat bigger one with a lid and  a handle) is a reasonable alternative (you can at least move it from place to  place in the home).
they’d like me to address, so feel free to comment here or to send me a private email (aimee@davincilearning.org).
certainly, there is a very tiny minority of children who will not  be able to handle it, even with guidance and training and practice.
almost any topic is fair game for the projects  they work on during the year (it’s not just chickens and zucchini!) and  their visual presentations (more on those below).
eventually, kids can do it on  their own, but we wait at each step to see that it’s happening reliably  before we fade the support.
courses can be expensive but financial aid is available.
so many of us are afflicted with “the perils  of multipotentiality” — we can go in many different directions, we  have many different interests and talents, we have many choices.
moving across country, same thing.
before you ask, no, i don’t have a giant network of people i can recommend.
for kids in school, that may not be a show-stopper; the times they get told things that need to get into the binder usuallyare the times when that zip-binder will be right with them.
1 flash drive (good idea!
okay, i can’t be  too mad about that.
i’ve already mentioned the school-year binder, and  jeff mentioned rough-sort systems, but i’ll have more to say about those  things later on.
i’m not saying “contrary,” i’m  saying “downright nasty.”
and some other kids will have parental or professional support called into play so as to prevent the worst of the failure.
look up one of the many lists  of myths and realities about giftedness (trythis one, or this one, or this one ), and if they start spouting any of these, try disagreeing gently.
my current go-to book — it’s comprehensive, realistic,  calm, not worshipful or overblown or dismissive — is webb, j.t.,  gore, j.l., amend, e.r., & devries, a.r. (2007).
the focus is on  buildingindependence.
very helpful for breaking the isolation and processing one’s own experiences of growing up gifted.
it’s not perfect, but  it’s nice for situations where writing doesn’t work well (like,  say, if you’re driving).
categories: advocacy, executive functioning,  social-emotional, special education tags: education, executive functioning,  guidance, special education clues on finding a therapist for a gifted client august 20, 2010  aimee yermish 29 comments this is another topic i get asked about a lot… “my kid is  really struggling to adjust, to make sense of himself in a world that  doesn’t quite understand him.
associations vary widely in terms of what they actually  provide — my experience has been that they are more focused around  political advocacy than around direct service to parents or kids.
see  what works and where the bugs are, solve the problems and improve the system  over time.
a whiteboard that shows two months is okay, but i tend to prefer systems  that allow the entry of information arbitrarily far into the future and  don’t require periodic recopying.
it’s a therapeutic high school  on the campus ofmclean hospital, one of the world’s premier psychiatric  hospitals.
if you have two different things, then you’re going  to (a) put information in the wrong place or in only one of the places (b) look  in the wrong place or in only one of the places and thus miss something you  need to know.
see what works and where the bugs are, solve the problems and improve the system over time.
categories: getting started, psychology, social-emotional tags: mental health, mentoring, psychology, therapy
each of us creates the tasks we need, but anyone can edit any list.
in this article, a parent of a child with significant learning disabilities  writes about how having her son in the meeting provided important information  to the iep team about the reality of what was going on in the classroom.
is it  just homework, or do you have other activities that also create things you have  to do and pulls on your time?
okay, to be fair, i’m willing to guess that a couple of those binders  might be destined to live in classrooms instead of traveling back and forth to  lockers and home.
if they insist, i adviseplain old medium-point black stick pens, nothing  fancy.
if we  don’t, they won’t either — remember, they think it’s  not relevant.
asking for and receiving help are seen as good things.
accordion files, of course, have  those little divider tabs.
at the tender age of 42, you’ll know that i started life as a starry-eyed molecular biologist.
think about how often this needs to happen in order to be useful (if your deadlines tend to be only a few days after you find out about them, then a weekly process is too slow!), and how you will make sure that you don’t forget to do it.
everyone in the family needs to model the skills that you want your kid to develop.
to act like everyone else.
so it’s like in education: if you ask someone if they understand  giftedness, they’ll all tell you they do, but that doesn’t mean a  whole heck of a lot.
tell them that it’s not an admission of fault or  imperfection that they develop and use a system so that they don’t have  to waste brain cycles remembering.)
this is my usual starting organizational system for most kids who go to  conventional schools.
good for avoiding  collisions and encouraging kids to work on things before the last minute.
a low-tech concept, particularly useful if your planner system is too  large to be on your person all the time, is to have an index card jotter  (here’san example) to scribble things in.
sports, music, arts, classes, practice times, religious services, family dinners, parties, company, hang-out-with-friends, tv shows you can’t bear to miss, whatever it is that you spend time on, if you’re going to want to spend time on it and you’re not going to want to do homework during that time, it’s a good idea to put it in the calendar.
if you like to use highlighters during tests, to highlight key phrases so that you make sure you answer the whole question, then sure, go ahead.
think about how often this needs to  happen in order to be useful (if your deadlines tend to be only a few days  after you find out about them, then a weekly process is too slow!), and how you  will make sure that you don’t forget to do it.
i have some alternatives, which i’ll cover in another post. categories:executive functioning, surviving school tags: education, executive  functioning, organization mommas, don’t let your babies grow up to be… august  5, 2010 aimee yermish 54 comments here’s an article making the rounds, which is funny  because it’s so true.
you need to be in the middle ground, where some guidance will help them gradually become able to do it on their own.
will they be writing only on  worksheets?
i think therapy would help, but how do i  find someone who really “gets” the whole gifted thing?”
so  you can learn how.”
then, if  necessary, we teach a parent how to watch and cue them, and they do it before  our session, so my weekly check is just to see that it’s been done  correctly.
(eww, that’s starting to sound like  work… will you really do it reliably?
it’s important to stay flexible.
what i usually  recommend is to subscribe to gt-families and tagfam, two general-interest  mailing lists.
but the culture here encourages parents to learn new things and be klutzy  beginners (and to get corrective feedback and survive the experience!)
if you feel that a certain 16-year-old cannot even meaningfullyparticipate in a meeting that may decide the course of their life, then i would be very, very concerned about that same person at 18 years old having the right to manage all aspects of their life on their own.
i also strongly believe that as soon as the kids are capable of tolerating the experience, they should be members of the team and participate in the meetings themselves.
the concept here is that each pile now has a pigeonhole to go into.
very often what a field looks like when we’re kids has very little to do with what it looks like when we’re adult practitioners.
if you  feel that a certain 16-year-old cannot even meaningfullyparticipate in  a meeting that may decide the course of their life, then i would be very, very  concerned about that same person at 18 years old having the right to manage all  aspects of their life on their own.
look up one of the many lists of myths and realities about giftedness (trythis one, or this one, or this one ), and if they start spouting any of these, try disagreeing gently.
there aren’t any studies yet looking at training programs for psychologists, but my sense of it is that, if anything, the situation is worse, since “gifted education” exists as a distinct field, while “gifted psychology” kinda basically doesn’t.
younger kids, who usually only have one teacher for most subjects which assign homework, can have a single hot-folder in the front of the binder.
anyone who frames giftedness as being part of the problem, anyone who  defines the intensity and drive and perceptiveness and differentness and  postformal reasoning as “the thing that’s wrong with you,”  leave and don’t look back.
same thing with what you will do when a project  is completed.
theinstitute for research and policy on  acceleration has guidelines.
“what are you most hoping (or most worrying) that they will say?”
maybe we’ll get lucky and they won’t hand out a paper planner they’re expecting everyone to use.
i’d have to add the constant stream of news stories in which some tiny incremental improvement in the state of our collective knowledge about how some ridiculously complicated natural system works and what we can do about some immense problem of human suffering, some little grain of sand added to the sandcastle of the global university, is oversimplified and treated as an amazing breakthrough.
some classes may require more than one section (english class is famous for this, with “language arts” and “literature” often being separate areas) — for the secondary divisions,ordinary dividers are fine.
(that’s very different from an overwhelmed teacher assigning a gt kid to tutor a struggling student in school, which has all sorts of rotten social and emotional consequences and is not educationally all that useful for either kid, and which probably should be the topic of another post.)
if i tried to keepeverything in one accordion  folder, i’d get sick of carrying it around, and that’s where the  danger would happen — i’d take a pile out to take with me  somewhere, and it wouldn’t have a pile containment device any more and the uncontrolled piles might escape.
if there are multiple people within a family who might need to look at,  add, or change information, electronic systems can be set up to enable this.
pcds need homes to live in.
(yes, i’ll  explain that more at some point.
otherwise, in the office pool for the lifespan of that object, put me down for  “under one week.”)
your kid is wonderful and terrific and you are  feeling the same awesome responsibility as the custodian of a young life as all  good parents do.
the nice thing about this system is that any member of the family can make changes which then everyone can see, and any member of the family can create an appointment for anyone else — i can let little bird know that we have company coming on a certain evening, so she can’t count on homework help then, for example.
the single best thing parents can do for  themselves is to break the isolation.
sure, you could use a prettyportfolio,  and that’s what i use now for walking-around notetaking-with-clients, but  there’s some nice urban chic happening with the aluminum thing.
both of these reviews are almost impossible for most folks who struggle  with organization to reliably do by themselves at first.
to  reduce costs, try just aregular half-sheet 3-ring binder, for which you can buy  refills (check that they’re compatible in hole placement!) or  print/chop/hole-punch your own.
i love to hear suggestions from people about specific topics or questions
if you have an electronic system, think about how you are going to use reminders intelligently.
someone who is at least moderately bright and who is a good listener is okay for a client who is looking mainly for symptom relief, but for a client who needs a long-term mentor relationship, the respondents in my study were pretty clear on the topic… they need to be pretty smart.
then we fade back to having them do it while i watch and cue them when they miss something.
the article is mainly about the fact that the public perception of science as a profession is shaped largely by mad-scientist movies and whiz-bang demonstrations.
then we fade back to  having them do it while i watch and cue them when they miss something.
yet they do, and dialogue with them is an  important part of the process both for the team and for them as they move into  adulthood.
is that the information kids need?
we can’t schedule a meeting if they don’t consent, and we can’t hold a meeting if they don’t show up.
we know that gifted  folk are found in every social, ethnic, racial, and economic group, but, well,  like i said, a lot of folks don’t know what they don’t know.
they are also  encouraged to track people helped and lessons learned, and to include  personal-development things that aren’t necessarily officially part of a  project.
another thing i think 4-h does really well is, tied in with the high-standards thing, encouraging kids tobuild transferable life skills .
[okay, so i’m probably no exception to the “highly opinionated” thing, but i try not to go off the, “your kid is a super-special superior being,” or the, “if you don’t do this one right thing and you don’t do it
show you /  hook you up with the following person / resource / class / book / website
this is my usual starting organizational system for most kids who go to conventional schools.
people certainly notice a particular person earning a lot of  awards, but it’s generally with a sense of frank admiration for the  effort and skill they know the kid put in.
homeschooling?) are created  equal, so it’s worth thinking about what would characterize good ones.
if you do your work basically at your desk, then try a whole bunch of horizontal letter trays, or a mail sorter (obviously, both of those items can be found in stylish versions, too, but i’m showing cheap-and-ugly options).
what do you see as the major risk and resilience factors in this  population?
now think about most appointment books: they show you your day in terms of half-hour blocks.
you might be surprised how much depth of thought you will hear.
extensive assignment sheets (for major projects) usually belong in page  protectors (each page in its own, please, so that you can read them easily,  don’t stuff a multi-page stapled thing into something that will require  you to take it out to read the inside pages!), placed in the rings at the  beginning of the relevant section of thebinder.
the two aren’t the same thing, but  they’re intertwined.
see, i have a crappy working memory ™, which means that if i  don’t capture an idea within about ten seconds, it will be gone gone  gone.
kids are likely to need a lot of guidance in the  process of breaking down tasks, keeping track of subtasks, redoing the schedule  when things don’t work out the way they planned, and generally keeping  any complex project on track (beyond the scope of this already-very-long post).
kids are encouraged to keep careful records of their  projects, tracking time, costs, income, and suchlike.
a small portable hanging-file box (here’s anopen one, and here’s a somewhat bigger one with a lid and a handle) is a reasonable alternative (you can at least move it from place to place in the home).
some kids are just good at piling up facts.
at the same time, they are also constantly encouraged to “ make the best better.”
a parent’s guide to gifted children.
the low-tech version, of course, is the official family calendar,  located at some central place in the household (usually the kitchen).
either once a month, or at the end of every multi-week unit, take out everything that is not from the current month/unit or the immediately previous month/unit, and put it in the big d-ring binder at home.
i strongly dislike traditional wood pencils.
but that  just gives the illusion that these systems work.
does it need to have a special  place of honor on your bedside table?
short version: it’s a normal and  important human need to accomplish tasks you perceive to be difficult, and to  experience people you look up to seeing you do it.)
that’s what most grownups  tend to do with major projects.
that isonly for these  to-be-captured items, that you then emptyregularly (see below).
second choice would be someone who can at least spontaneously admit that  they are not knowledgeable in the area but would be interested in  self-educating.
because although i knew intellectually that science was a lot of hard work and a very long process, some little part of me still held onto the magical belief that you had a brilliant idea on monday, did the experiment on tuesday, got data (cells gotta grow overnight) on wednesday, published on thursday, and on friday were on the plane to stockholm.
we can’t schedule a meeting if  they don’t consent, and we can’t hold a meeting if they don’t  show up.
typically, folks introduce their questions with, “i don’t know if anyone has ever had this happen, but…” and everyone says, “oh, no, we’ve all had that happen, here’s the different ways we dealt with it.”
the goal is not to get our kids (or us!)
enter the pile-containment devices: letter trays, portable pockets,  accordion folders, and the like.
otherwise, you will just have a whole pile of undifferentiated piles, and you will eventually start shoving things in randomly because you aren’t sure what goes where, and you will waste time trying to find the pile you were looking for, so you’re back to piles of piles of messy piles.
size: you could, i suppose, use 8.5″ x 11″ sheets, whether purchased or homebrewed, and integrate this right into the front of the traveling zip-binder i describe inthis post.
i get a lot of phone calls and emails that amount to, “help!
there should be no blank paper anywhere in the binder except for those sections.
if  you’re talking with administrators about district-wide acceleration  policy (hey, a girl can dream, eh?)
to avoid the problem, i make it my personal goal to get rid of those pieces of paper as soon as possible by entering the relevant information into my system.
if they need to have an educational advocate, therapist, adult friend, or other non-parental helpful person sitting next to them to help them understand what is going on and to help them figure out how to express their own ideas appropriately, then that’s a great service to provide for them.
i also don’t think that highlighters have much use during the school day.
reading biographies of famous individuals, particularly those written for  younger audiences, doesn’t help all that much, i’m afraid.
plus, a lot of providers seem to think that “gifted” means “fiscally gifted,” and they see us as high-functioning clients who are likely to provide a nice revenue stream (as tom lehrer said, they think they’re specializing in “diseases of the rich“), so they advertise claiming this as a specialty area.
if a kid has iq and achievement scores both above 145, there are some great  opportunities available through thedavidson institute for talent development.
there is a strong emphasis on public speaking, both  formal and informal.
no kidding — i’ve had to write into kids’ ieps and 504 plans that they had to beallowed to use a bag instead of carrying everything loose.
all offer low-cost methods for kids to take out-of-level achievement tests (because they’d hit the ceilings of grade-level achievement tests, of course!), qualifying them to take courses designed for gifted kids.
the single best thing parents can do for themselves
don’t back off all at once, or they will have no idea where to go or what theycould or should expect from themselves.
i don’t like flimsy clear-poly pockets — they feel like they’re not going to hold up, and they aren’t stiff enough to protect the papers well.
i’ve heard consistent reports  from gt clients that if they weren’t able to leave therapy (many child or  adolescent clients don’t feel they have much choice in the matter), they  were highly successful not just in stonewalling, but in outright snowing  therapists who they felt didn’t empathize with them effectively (my  favorite was the tweenaged client who structured her play so as to make her  therapist come to certain interpretations).
i’ve had the same one for years, because i really cannot manage more than one project of accordion-file magnitude at a time (“knowing your limits” being another important aspect of executive functioning).
by the way, i have known some school-age kids to use an accordion file instead of the traveling zip binder, where each section is a class, and there’s one section at the front for hot-folder items.
organizing tasks and time is a  lifelong skill.
the single hardest thing for me to do  while writing is to get my thoughts into linear form.
for another instance, when i was working on the literature review for my dissertation, there were piles and piles of papers on various topics.
and  siblings (even annoying little ones!) to stick around and participate.
teaching gifted kids in the regular classroom: strategies and  techniques every teacher can use to meet the academic needs of the gifted and  talented(2nd. ed).
interesting  idea, eh?  plan a time to work on it, so that when you sit down to work on  any given day, you have an agenda in front of you.
it’s from three of the leading researchers in gifted  education, and, as the title might suggest, most of what educators think they  know just isn’t so.
(i have personally see this play out, at times tragically, in a few situations, where a newly-minted legal adult made decisions that were mostly informed by their lack of experience.)
or will you procrastinate  and run off the end of the system?)
you might be a bit hypersensitive, sure (i see that a lot, especially from adult gt folks who had educationally or socially traumatic experiences in childhood), but in the shrink biz, they teach us to pay attention to those feelings.
but if you don’t know what your own strengths and weaknesses are, you can neither think about how your current style might match up nor think intelligently about what you might want to develop about yourself in order to become a better match.
categories: social-emotional tags: career, guidance,  mentoring, multipotentiality school supplies… a rant august 4, 2010 aimee yermish 35  comments one of the things that i do a lot of with kids, especially kids in middle  school or high school, is help them deal with the paper chase.
but usually the actual systems leave much to be desired.
because we need to break the social isolation of the kids, too, i also strongly recommend sharing with administrators if they’ll let you: winebrenner, s., & brulles, d. (2008).
because this structure doesn’t have a lot of rules around  age or status,anyone who knows something can be a valid teacher .
planning work time also requires kids to predict how long they think a task  or subtask will take… and thus provides a good opportunity for them to  also track how long somethingactually took, so that they can become  more accurate predictors in the future.
both of  these showed up in my research as a very common theme in terms of what  distinguished successful from unsuccessful alliances.
they should also volunteer information that fell into a kid’s blind spots, stuff they didn’t even think to ask about.
moving across country,  same thing.
it can also be helpful for kids to ask the adults in  their lives to share their impressions — chances are good that no one  vision of a kid will be perfectly accurate, but when diverse sources start to  give convergent data, that’s something to take seriously.
the best single book to share with teachers is: winebrenner, s.  (2001).
having them is better than not having  them.
i also strongly believe that as soon as the kids are capable of  tolerating the experience, they should be members of the team and participate  in the meetings themselves.
and what the main body of evidence shows is that, as james carville might have said, it’s the relationship, stupid.
loose slips sink ships.
we’re often doing this in whatever teeny  bits of wiggle room we can find within the “systems” imposed upon  them by their schools.
but they  won’t learn how to do it without guided practice.
another thing that 4-h does very well is to encourage kids to improve over time and meet meaningful quality standards .
frequently, you can get rid of a lot of the intermediate  materials, and then you need some sort of long-term storage for the stuff you  want to keep.
if  you get push-back instead of thoughtful dialogue, just thank them nicely and  walk.
so, i would advise specifically bringing up the topic of giftedness  and multiple exceptionality with any prospective therapist in a nonthreatening  but clear way, one which focuses on observable behavior — “what  experience do you have working with folks who are highly intelligent?
but  it’sparticularly important for gt and 2e kids, because they all  too often don’t get enough of the self-efficacy and empathic mirroring /  accreditation experiences that most kids get in school.
kids are also encouraged to participate in leadership and  community service projects, again often taking on organizational roles  that one might assume are only for older kids.
i’m not saying “contrary,” i’m saying “downright nasty.”
another reason why it helps to have someone reasonably smart so that the  kid will have a harder time snowing them if they try.
it’s from three of the leading researchers in gifted education, and, as the title might suggest, most of what educators think they know just isn’t so.
it needs to be easy to put information into and easy to get  information out of.
the key is to get something that you can get all of your information into (so that you can trust that everything you need to know is in there), and get all of your information out of… reliably and simply.
but this list is not giving me all the warm fuzzy back-to-school feeling i’m hoping for.
in our family, we manage time with google  calendars — we have one for the kids (they might end up with one each  when they get older), one for the parents’ public information, and one  for each parent’s private information.
and a third potential pitfall:  when you switch away from that project  to another task (as us low-working-memory high-idea-generation types do so  often), the pileneeds to get swept back into the pcd.
see, i have a crappy working memory ™, which means that if i don’t capture an idea within about ten seconds, it will be gone gone gone.
but remember that you now have a two-step process.
either once a month, or at the end of every multi-week unit, take out  everything that is not from the current month/unit or the immediately previous  month/unit, and put it in the big d-ring binder at home.
for each subject, one side of  the divider holds papers the teacher has handed out which haven’t gotten  into the rings yet, and the other side holds homework (and permission slips,  etc) which is completed and not yet handed in.
occasionally, if it’s really only a few pieces of paper and the project is really short term, i do grab one of those awful two-pocket paper folders (see, i despise them so much i’m not even making a link) that seem to spawn in my closet (they are refugees, i think, from little bird’s elementary school’s silly ideas about how to teach kids to organize themselves).
(3) stop what you’re doing,  sharpen the pencil successfully (which includes not dropping piles of shavings  all over the floor when you have to keep opening the thing up to pry yet  another broken point out of the razor), remember what it was you were doing,  and then get back going again.
this is perhaps the most common reason people call me.
both of these reviews are almost impossible for most folks who struggle with organization to reliably do by themselves at first.
do you always wear the same type of jeans (or whatever), such that it could always live in your pocket?
if so, we need acase of glue sticks.
in the fair, first, everything is judged on an arbitrary standard.
but don’t try it if you don’t have to — look for pockets that have someplace to slip a paper label into them.
the research on client honesty is pretty solid across the board — therapists tend not to know what clients hide from them.
you can design and print your own pages pretty easily in any word-processing software, if you prefer.
note that this is all before we add any textbooks to those backpacks, if you were concerned about weight.
when you’re trying to figure out who you are and how you’re going to exist in the world, you don’t want to have to wait around for the therapist to catch up, or to feel like you’re doing all the work yourself.
giftedness is treated with a lot of ambivalence in the usa and similar cultures — you’re supposed to have brilliant kids, but whatever you do, don’t talk about them.
otherwise, you will just have a whole pile of undifferentiated piles, and you  will eventually start shoving things in randomly because you aren’t sure  what goes where, and you will waste time trying to find the pile you were  looking for, so you’re back to piles of piles of messy piles.
just like you need one object,  it needs to have the fewest possible places where it could be.
normally, this district actually does a pretty good job with most things,  and even a very good job with some things.
and yet another — when my dishwasher  had a catastrophic failure and i found myself managing an insurance company and  a kitchen remodel while in grad school (i do not recommend this for amusement),  there were all sorts of piles of stuff related to that.
these  are nice things to have,as a backup for when some information  escapes the best efforts to corral it, and as a way for adults who are helping  a kid to know the answer to the question, “what do you have for homework  tonight?”
almost without  fail, i see kids who speak politely and intelligently, with appropriate social  pragmatics, responding thoroughly to questions, and showing their enthusiasm  for their work.
your kid is the same kid they were yesterday  and is the same kid they’re going to be tomorrow.
if you’re talking with administrators about district-wide acceleration policy (hey, a girl can dream, eh?)
they typically getzero training in gifted issues while in teacher school, and what they do get typically just perpetuates the myths.
this all reads practically like a recipe for “how to design an  out-of-school activity that helps kids develop real skills and real  self-esteem.”
(oh, look, there’s a teen version — i haven’t read it yet, but i’d consider that a good bet as a starting point) can help structure some aspects of the exploration.
no recriminations, just find the stragglers and round ‘em up, get ‘em in the rings.
also, sometimes you want to toss a small book or workbook right into the pile (and might be tempted to shove papers into the book in order to corral them.
theinstitute for research and policy on acceleration has guidelines.
if you really only have a few things you need to deal with at any given time, and, again, you’re good about offloading things into long-term storage, think about something like acontractor’s clipboard.
for the fair itself,  there’s quite a range of things kids can make and exhibit, and there are  departments at our local fair which permit written or display entries on  virtually any topic (our county had a passionate gt kid and supportive parent  who established a writing department about a decade ago).
(i long ago gave up filing “that is neat and i might want it someday” stuff in my filing cabinets, because other than the few really important things, i would tend to forget not just what i named the file it got put in, but eventhat it ever existed at all.)
you can try asking me privately if i know anyone in your  geographical area, and i’ll try, but no guarantees.
so why on earth would i like an organizational system that is linear in structure, like a binder?
i have to say, ireally like 4-h (or at  least its local instantiation) as a program for gifted kids…
scottsdale, az: great potential press.
what do you see as the major risk and resilience factors in this population?
many parents who call me are looking to find out about what their school  districts are obligated to do.
because we need to break the social isolation of the kids, too, i also  strongly recommend sharing with administrators if they’ll let you:   winebrenner, s., & brulles, d. (2008).
why care specifically about this topic for gifted and twice-exceptional  kids?
you need one (1 (just one (not seven, but one))) 3-ring zip-binder, the kind where you have maybe a 1.5″ ring binder in a cloth cover that zips all the way around (here’s anexample).
in any domain, there are likely to be quite a lot of skills which can be meaningfully taught at an appropriate level by someone who is further along the path, such thatboth teacher and learner are able to meaningfully increase their understanding and skill, and to derive self-efficacy from doing so.
in fact, the only nice thing i can say about most planner books provided by the school is that they tend to be organized by subject, rather than by time.
even if the child is not eligible (i always have to remind  people who come to me for testing that by the math of the normal curve, 96% of  kids above 130 are *not* above 145), ditd has somepublic-access bulletin boards  with useful information and discussions as well, and adatabase of articles on  specific topics.
if your concern is that the child may be upset by the process, particularly  if the child’s disability affects their emotional stability, let me say  two things.
and we’re all just fine.
(another nice thing about that, by the way, is that when  they get random-people-from-the-public to see how well they’ve done and  how well they can present themselves, it becomes another opportunity for them  to see that others respect their work.)
so my point in making this post?
and i’ll talk you through.
see, you can’t teach kids organizational skills just by putting them  in a situation where organizational skills would be a really good idea.
a specific pocket in your purse or  backpack?
or will you procrastinate and run off the end of the system?)
gifted folks are just like everyone else except that we got as in school and we’re all just fine.
today’s science demonstration  will require a laptop, a printer, and 20 liters of coffee.
second choice would be someone who can at least spontaneously admit that they are not knowledgeable in the area but would be interested in self-educating.
you  basically register a phone and an email.
is to break the isolation.
so i advise making  a personal rule:  ”i will not say, ‘i’ll write that down  later.’”
in this article, a parent of a child with significant learning disabilities writes about how having her son in the meeting provided important information to the iep team about the reality of what was going on in the classroom.
the biggest potential downfall of the pcd system is that they need to be labeled.
use clear plastic durable slash-folder dividers,  like these.
they are encouraged to try new things (the official  slogan is “learn by doing.“).
so many of us are afflicted with “the perils of multipotentiality” — we can go in many different directions, we have many different interests and talents, we have many choices.
and few decisions are truly permanent — you can usually change course later.
if you  ever spot it outside one of those places, it needs to get put back in one of  its permissible “homes” right away.
the research on  client honesty is pretty solid across the board — therapists tend not to  know what clients hide from them.
remember, though, that in most situations  in which you could make a phone call or send an email, if your electronic  device were also your portable brain, then you wouldn’t need to use this.
consider putting a repeating appointment on your calendar, or a repeating task on your task-list, and setting your system to nag remind you to do it.
so why on earth would i  like an organizational system that is linear in structure, like a binder?
but the goal is to avoid those last-minute  crises where the science fair project and the cousin’s wedding come into  sharp conflict.
they can approach the projects at any level of sophistication they  like.
(that’s very different from an overwhelmed teacher assigning a  gt kid to tutor a struggling student in school, which has all sorts of rotten  social and emotional consequences and is not educationally all that useful for  either kid, and which probably should be the topic of another post.)
so the activities aren’t just for fun and games — we’re creating the opportunity for a developmental need to be met.
most folks never even think about this  issue… on which day in the planner do you write your homework?
when you’re trying to  figure out who you are and how you’re going to exist in the world, you  don’t want to have to wait around for the therapist to catch up, or to  feel like you’re doing all the work yourself.
july 25, 2010 aimee yermish 13 comments
i’m noticing what’s not on the list, too… no  mechanical pencils.
if i tried to keepeverything in one accordion folder, i’d get sick of carrying it around, and that’s where the danger would happen — i’d take a pile out to take with me somewhere, and it wouldn’t have a pile containment device any more and the uncontrolled piles might escape.
what are the kinds of things you need to write down?
i lovingly call mine my “portable  brain.”
categories: executive functioning, outside of school,  social-emotional tags: executive functioning, exploration, extracurriculars,  mentoring, multipotentiality meetings: the final frontier august 24, 2010 aimee yermish leave  a comment
i suggest that kids plan in  liberal amounts of “slush time,” planning a set of benchmarks that  keeps them comfortably ahead of schedule, to deal with the inevitable  complexities and delays that arise.
some of the nastiest and most invalidating responses i’ve personally experienced or heard about in my research came from professionals who were themselves very likely to be highly intelligent.
if they want to self-educate, the (btw, i would recommend  themodels of counseling gifted children, adolescents, and young adults book,  edited by jean peterson and sal medaglio, for a professional to self-educate on  the topic).
that’s a lot of stuff to think about and chew on.
if you aren’t going to have your actual planner ready to hand all the time, whatwill you have with you that will enable you to capture information that needs to get into the planner?
i tend to have opinions on giftedness, learning disabilities, education, psychology, and the interface between all of those.
what i usually recommend is to subscribe to gt-families and tagfam, two general-interest mailing lists.
if the writer has bad handwriting or doesn’t like to write, typing  is likely to be more legible, particularly at smaller font sizes, and most  non-writers don’t mind typing as much.
mentors can also help link a kid up with long-term experiences where they can get their hands dirty and become part of the action, particularly as they move into the teen years.
no paper gets thrown out, even if the teacher says you don’t need to keep it or it’s stupid or whatever.
most kids are not appointment-driven; rather, they are project-driven (for adults, it depends a lot on the type of job you have).
absent certain really seriously exacerbating circumstances, adults have the right to make their own decisions, no matter how foolish.
maybe they always assumed that their kids would be gifted, but had also assumed that there would be clear and easy guidance and help available from the school system.
i had one just like this one for years while in grad school the first time — i used letter trays on my desk and just used this lovely portable thing to take notes and hold important pieces of paper (hot-folder items) in the storage box (which also can hold a pencil).
if nothing is, then nothing gets a blue ribbon and no prizes are awarded,  as per previous bullet.
1 three-ring binder, 1″ thick, flexible, with some unspecified  number of page protectors.
pay attention not just to the content of the responses, but also to the nonverbal signals and your gut feeling about how they’re responding to the notion.
i’m with william of  ockham here:  do not multiply entities needlessly.