a brief synopsis of the video: making language studies convenient and easy is very important.
however, it is the most important book in my collection because it makes language learning convenient and immediate.
be a copy cat – i know that your mom told you that it isnt nice to be a copy cat but when learning a foreign language it pays.
do you ever think about 2nd grade and say history, math or english class was hard?
facebook - twitter - digg -stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit written by aaron
the store looks great and will be all but finished as of wednesday of this week.
i dont think that we have supernatural powers but at the same time feel that what holds many back are our own minds.
if you are interested please call or email us and we will help you get registered for our classes.
look for a dictionary with precise, up to date and adequate definitions.
im sure since theyve been isolated for near  200 years now that the language has evolved in to a creole of sorts.
as long as the school maintains foreign language education throughout the students school life they should graduate with functional language skills.
tempe, arizona language classes start august 4th 2008facebook - twitter -digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit written by aaron comments off | print this post most people who are studying foreign languages will have a whole library of books about their language of interest.
we are currently accepting pre enrollment for our group classes and expect them to fill up quickly as we have 3 years worth of contacts who will be interested in our group classes.
ill also be doing a video tomorrow on site of the progress.
this dictionary is french only so i only started using it after i was conversational.
© letutor language school 2012
this short video tells you about the language and how kid are taught at school.
natural is better - language learning is more natural when it is extemporaneous and in the moment.
a very small pocket dictionary.
i think that part of the reason that we think that kids learn easier is because they dont remember how hard it was because it was just part of life.
subscribe to our email newsletter for news, language, tips and site updates.
we are located on the north east corner of guadalupe and mcclintock on the north side of the frys shopping center.
adults are no different than kids in our ability to learn except that we have this intellectual or emotional baggage that tells that we cant do something or that it is too difficult and not worth trying.
this post i found these videos on childhood foreign language learning.
however, there a few that you just cant do without.
work that kids just saw as part of life and occured naturally for them in their daily activities.
so do i think that it is easier for kids to learn a foreign language than adults.
the books gives you a lot of vocabulary words that are important in certain subjects but you may have not have thought of because they are more idiomatic or technical words that are uncommon.
adults can achieve the same results but it takes time and hard work.
i often get asked by adult students if it is too late for them to learn a foreign language.
early childhood language learning video 1.
sign up for newsletter schedulea free class!480-626-5180 subscribe to our email newsletter for news, language, tips and site updates.
for example if you are in the car and you have satellite radio tune into one of the foreign language stations.
480-626-5180 info@letutor.com kids classes: spanish, french and chinese – $285 (-$35 off for pre enrollment) group classes: spanish, french, english as a second language or esl, chinese, russian and german – $385(-$50 off for pre enrollment) our new address: le tutor language school 1855 e guadalupe a-104 tempe, arizona 85283 written by aaron comments off | print this post would you take spanish lessons from this school?
spanish, french, english as a second language, chinese, german and russian will be offered.
make daily activities that you would do normally into language learning opportunities.
beginners will not want to focus heavily on these techniques but should definitely be aware of them and be using them as they progress.
additionally, adults have become accustomed to learning new thing quickly with their increase intelligence and experience.
leave a comment or subscribe to our blog and let us know what you think or what has worked for you.
alphabet and compound sounds – make sure that you know all of the alphabets individual and compound sounds so that you can say them without thinking.
but ive never taken the time to  find out more about it.
you may have the words but stumble when it is time to speak because you have not developed the muscle memory or habit.
but ive never taken the time to find out more about it.
plan ahead – make sure that you think ahead about how you can make your language studies more natural.
foreign language music or podcasts on your ipod.
this is about 2 weeks ago when the builders had already gutted the location and had just put up the framing.
but if you work hard you will learn the language.
comments off | print
early childhood language learning video
i show books for different languages but you can find the books i show in almost any language easily with the exception of my extremely small french only dictionary.
facebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit videos on early childhood language learning written by aaron
then i progressed to reciting them by memory.
your speaking abilities will sound more polished and natural.
it is important for 2 reasons.
i literally carried it with me everywhere i went for 1.5 years.
stay tuned to our blog for more information and announcements.
anyone in the phoenix, arizona area who reads this blog is more than welcome to come and meet our teachers, hang out, play games, eat our food, win door prizes and sit in on some language class demonstrations.
we are having a small delay with some permit issues that werent taken care of but we are hopefully getting fixed.
it needs to become second nature.
when i was learning french i chose the 6 most common conjugations and learned the different verb types.
im sure since theyve been isolated for near 200 years now that the language has evolved in to a creole of sorts.
fear, doubt, apprehension, suspicion, laziness and preconceived notions about how something is.
i removed the video because it was breaking the sites code.
sign up for newsletter video regarding the amish language videos on early childhood language learning improve your accent and pronunciation tempe, az subscribe to our rss feed to receive the latest le tutor news and updates instantly!
you can also use these techniques to simply build speaking fluency.
http://www.spike.com/video/what-is-your-2nd/2885961 what language do the amish speak?
it took some figuring out but now i now how to edit and format videos to be able to upload them to youtube.
video regarding the amish language written by aaron 1 comment |  print this post i knew the amish spoke their own language
you can drive by and check us out if you like we are almost open.
because by the time you get home and can look it up youve completely forgot.
le tutor will open its doors to the public.
it also helps if they have examples of how the word is used contextually or idiomatically.
facebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit written by aaron
everything is really coming a long and is starting to look really good.
im not sure i would take anything from them and most certainly not any kind of instruction.
next i created sentences and used all of the conjugations for each pronoun in each tense until is was second nature.
1855 e guadalupe a-104
i hope this helps you get started learning your desired foreign language or improves your current studies.
often times youll think of a word and then forget it
i think that language learning is the same way.
and then you can adjust later.
even then they will be learning it for another 8-10 years depending on their education.
the amish speak dutch or pennsylvania dutch which is a dialect of german.
im personally anxious for the carpet to get put in because i think that it will really bring things together.
pick a subject and study them.
dutch which is a dialect of german.
watch the news in spanish.
info@letutor.com written by aaron 1 comment | print this post i knew the amish spoke their own language
ive been thought about this for a long time and these are just some of my personal rantings about kids vs adults in language learning.
let me know what you think and if you have any of your own tips.
adults are just more aware of all of the hard work it takes to learn a language.
facebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit subscribe to our rss subscribe to our blog and get all the latest information about new languages...
comments off | print this post our latest language learning tip video teaches you how to improve your accent and pronunciation in a foreign language.
how to make language learning more convenient: 1.
as adults we build up language learning too much in our minds as something hard or think it will be easy and then get discouraged when we dont speak fluently in 30 days.
heres a  link to the video.
dont forget tosubscribe to our blog by clicking on the green counter at the top right and please rate our videos at youtube.
uber tiny pocket dictionary: i found this dictionary while living in france and fell in love.
theme based dictionaries: i personally really like mastering language vocabulary by barrons but im sure there are others that are very good.
you may learn faster or slower than the next
heres the blog post that reignited this subject for me.
when you do start to drop syllables or to speak quickly like a native you will sounds even better.
a small notepad always at the ready.
im not sure that it is an easier for younger children to learn a foreign language but it does seem that the end result is a more fluid and natural speaker of the 2nd language.
choose someone whos accent and pronunciation you enjoy and do your best to speak like them.
my response is always that anyone can learn a foreign language.
when the going gets tough – when language learning becomes difficult or a chore students often give up or move on.
i started by writing them hundreds of times each until i could recite them without thinking.
stay tuned for more announcements and photos of our locations remodeling process.
i know some of the future posts will be out of order
this post alright everyone has been asking for some footage of our new school opening august 4th.
comments off | print this post heres a language learning tip that is a personal favorite.
le tutor language school will offer kids and adult conversational group and private lessons.
i know natives dont always pronounce each syllable but learn it correctly first
imitate everything they say and how they say.
its my first attempt so be kind.
ive some picks on the demolition and pre demolition stages.
use convenient tools – make sure that you have the tools necessary to help you make language learning convenient.
we will have our grand opening party on saturday july 19th 2008 starting at 7pm.
a large part of speaking fluency is recall and muscle memory.
adults learning a foreign language think it is hard because they are more conscious of the effort they are exerting in order to gain this new skill and knowledge.
language has a humbling effect and probably takes the same amount of time to learn as an adult as it does as a child.
at anytime i wanted to find out what a word meant that someone said in a conversation or while reading i instantly looked it up.
tempe, arizona 85283.
standard dictionary: although there are lots of dictionaries out there very few do it well.
this short video tells you about the language and how  kid are taught at school.
slow - when you practice take your time and sound out each syllable.
2 although it seems that the teacher isnt extremely fluent herself it is good to see a school district placing priority on foreign language learning for young students.
it takes kids 7-8 years before they speak their native language extremely well.
the amish speak dutch or pennsylvania
let me know what you think.
more coming soonfacebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit written by aaron comments off | print this post le tutor grand opening.
kids just do it because it is part of their life.
written by aaron comments off | print this post alright so heres another update on the construction of le tutor language school located in tempe, arizona.
comments off | print this post im not one who believes that people are limited.
heres a link to the video.