for additional information, please contact: raymond
learn french in france, learn english in canada, learn spanish in spain, learn german in germany, learn english in the usa, learn english in england, learn portuguese in brazil, learn spanish in mexico...
established in 1995 it is  situated in the green maadi area in cairo-egypt.
our completely interactive online e-learning environment is designed to help you learn spanish quickly and easily from the comfort of your own home.
the italian language school scuola dante alighieri camerino is located in camerino, a quiet medieval university town in the marche, italy.
therefore, tirf’s mission embodies four major goals: -to implement a research and development program that will generate new knowledge and inform and improve the quality of english language teaching and learning; -to promote the application of research to practical language problems; -to collect, organize, and disseminate information and research on the teaching and learning of language; and -to influence the formation and implementation of appropriate language education policies, recognizing the importance of indigenous languages and cultures worldwide, and of english as an international language.
language learning techniques are also covered.
carol radomski email: radomskica@state.gov the project is a website that meshes everything from podcasts,  ebooks, online classes, and opencourseware.
the high school graduate is a resource for graduating high school students who need help finding education resources, such as information about careers and career training programs; applying to colleges and universities, community colleges, and junior colleges; contacting military recruiters in the armed forces (army, navy, air force, marines, coast guard, air national guard, army national guard) and rotc programs; obtaining scholarships and financial aid; evaluating vocational schools; choosing a degrees or career path; and other issues relating to higher (post-secondary) education.
formal language classes are complemented by  cultural activities which immerse participants in the local language and  culture.
in this  context, spanish is emerging as the second lingua franca in the world.
the listing for flava in the "state organizations" needs to be updated to flavaweb.org, please.
cybersmart! helps educators gain the 21st century skills needed to safely harness the internet's potential - promoting students' creative inquiry, collaboration and critical thinking.
for additional information, please contact: araceli ruiz email: info@zadorspain.com phone: +34945234895 everything needed for melab, melicet, mtelp and ecpe (michigan proficiency) success.
for additional information, please contact: email:  movingoncourse@gmail.com trade and swap textbooks  for college student and other campus.
their site also includes glossaries in various topics such as medicine, law, and physics.
com, will work, the association prefers to utilize ofla-online.
for additional information, please contact: vicky v email:vicky@seovalley.com
for additional information, please contact: martin lagutt email: lagutt@fibertel.com.ar phone: 54 11 47729095
for additional information, please contact: max email: school@impara.biz for additional information, please contact:
nsli-y provides full, merit-based scholarships for language study.
students listen to and repeat audio spoken in the foreign language, and also read the corresponding sentences in english and the foreign language.
as classes increasingly collaborate across state and national boundaries via the internet, cyber safety becomes a key instructional component.
there are extracurricular activities that will help in the immersion in the language and culture (dance classes, football matches, visits to museums and theatres, night outings and more).
learn italian in italy.
albanian translation quality translation services in albania asociación argentina de docentes de  español aade es una asociación sin fines de lucro que nuclea a  profesionales de la enseñanza del español como lengua segunda y  extranjera.
under no circumstances shall actfl be held responsible or liable, directly or indirectly, for any loss or damage caused or alleged to have been caused to a user in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services available on such external site.
4942-7855 amistad institute at glance.
for additional information, please contact: enrica cavo email: ilcentro@ilcentro.net international house madrid based in the heart of the spanish capital is part of the prestigous international house world organisation and offers language courses including spanish for foreigners as well as teacher training in both spanish and english.
at obbio you can find people who speaks natively the language you are learning and make real-time audio and videoconferences with them via skype™ in order to practice your conversational skills.
hermosa sprachaufenthalte  offers language packages for children, teenagers and adults of all ages.
it has total immersion and study abroad programmes.
eligibility: undergraduates and graduates students with 2+ years of russian may apply.
find language courses with nacel, a leading language course organisation.
interested individuals will register themselves into the language learner registry this llr website, will be responsible for updating their contact information if that changes, and will be communicated with directly when practice tests need to be scheduled in their language.
for additional information, please contact: susana rojas email: info@interhispanica.com.ar phone: 54-11-4961-3685 for additional information, please contact: mike stevens email: webmaster@eslcity.com for additional information, please contact: email: david.zhao@exelchinese.cn the osu k-12 chinese flagship program cooperates with partners in ohio and other states to establish effective chinese language programs for schools by developing three sectors of resources: curriculum, teacher training, and technology.
the dictionary is unique because you do not need hebrew fonts to display the hebrew words.
the trips are open to all nationalities of k-12 and university educators and administrators, as well as retired educators.
learn a world language through live conversation with native language speakers via webcam.
a new concept, mangolanguages.com has married the teaching abilities of linguists from around the world with the latest software technologies, providing users with an easy to access way to learn a foreign language online at their own pace.
we provide live online one-on-one spanish tutoring for those learning spanish at all levels.
accommodation, visa support and excursions/travel support are also included.
acli also includes lectures, films, and a dynamic cultural program.
toll-free: (800) 848-9500 10 whitewood ln n branford, ct 06471
for additional information, please contact: anoop krishnan email: anoop@seovalley.com phone: 26361126
our website features comprehensive information and lets you compare on over 100 fine language immersion programs worldwide that meet our quality standards.
you need a sound player like windows media player on your computer.
contains reviews of resources for kyrgyz language learners, including kyrgyz dictionaries, textbooks and language websites.
administrators can participate in six-week shadowing experiences in nine different countries.
outbound programs for american high school students.
study german abroad at one of the recommended  german language schools.
for additional information, please contact: sebastian fudickar email: x@inspire-me.de phone: 000000 for additional information, please contact: sean morrissy we would like to ask you to please add a link to the barcelona university uab spanish course website www.barcelona-university.es.
for additional information, please contact: frank amora
for additional information, please contact:
an outstanding opportunity for spanish students and their teachers.
to be eligible students must be receiving a federal pell grant at the time of application and cannot be studying abroad in a country currently under a u.s. department of state travel warning or in cuba.
the italian language school scuola dante alighieri camerino is  located in camerino, a quiet medieval university town in the marche, italy.
host short term (6 to 8 weeks), a high school semester, or school term.
members can also write/read language school and book reviews, articles and activities.
acli students speak only russian for  the duration of the 6-week program.
come and join  starfish ventures in thailand and make the real difference.
katy email:info@olecourses.com london school of business and finance (lsbf) offers a range of innovative education programs and professional education courses.
for additional information, please contact: email: info@kwla-online.org phone: (502) 485-3054
acli also includes lectures, films, student activities clubs and visits to nearby volgograd and elista.
for additional information, please contact: email: mmayor@mc3.edu for additional information, please contact: eddie lau email:eddie1288@hotmail.com online subtitling course with compact concept and use of professional subtitling software, feedback and certificate of completion, voice over and subtitling for the hearing-impaired included, furthermore pitfalls and bloopers, translation resources.
come see us at ncr forms for all of your needs.
friendly, professional spanish classes with university-level instructors.
for additional information, please contact: susana rojas email: info@interhispanica.com.ar
our teachers have a university degree, post graduate studies in spanish as a foreign language and those who teach business spanish are economic graduates.
if you could update the link on your page (http://actfl.org/i4a/links/edit.cfm), it would be much appreciated.
the skits are changed every couple of months.
- david sherrod ofla website consultant contact: dr. jacqueline van houten, curriculum division, 500 mero street, frankfort, ky 40601
international exchange students 15 to 18 years of age.
many tips and tricks for semi-professional translators, voice talents or both.
the site menu provides selection by one tense or all tenses; gender or both genders; singular and/or plural.
we offer students the opportunity to book spanish language courses and accommodation at the university of barcelona uab in spain.
and since we just relaunched the site, you can now find even more awesome free features that will help you practice your spanish.
this site has been developed through funding from the us department of education (title vi nrc grant and irsp) and the us department of defense (nsep) and is free to anyone with access to the internet.
for additional information, please contact: zane madison email: support@learnstudyspanish.com features children's songs from over 90 countries in the original languages, with english and french translations.
the italian language school
phone: 626 236 8675 grammar, vocabulary, verbs, cultural notes, more.
the mixxer is a site hosted by dickinson college for language learners and teachers to find a language partner for a language exchange via skype.
lessons are conducted using the direct communicative method and utilizing  materials developed by the school staff.
the school is centrally located and offers a range of spanish courses including, intensive spanish group classes of 20 or 30 hours per week, private classes and additional cultural classes.
jesus fermin email: jesus@malacainstituto.com phone: s huitalk - connecting language learners a great language exchange community, where members can freely  search for language exchange partners and share their languages.
for additional information, please contact: email:  contact@expanish.com learn spanish rapidly learn spanish rapidly is a website and blog run by an american  librarian turned writer living in mexico.
we also offer free email language lessons on subscription for spanish and english learners and free teacher resources for spanish language teachers.
learn italian language and culture in italy.
website in 5 languages.
acli students enjoy wonderful russian-speaking homestays while studying for 4-5 hours daily in small groups at the school of philology of st. petersburg state university.
there are several different types of tools to make material with or without pictures, eg crosswords, spirals, bingoboards, lable the picture, flashcards, wordsearches etc.
phrases and  sentences are spelled out in both the language the student is trying to learn  and in english.
hosting opportunities for families, couples, and individuals.
one of the leading spanish schools in andalusia, colegio maravillas, an accredited centre of the instituto cervantes has 30 years’ experience offers a wide range of spanish language courses for university students, professionals, seniors, non-native teachers and a popular summer camp for teens.
terramare offers language courses in  small groups of 2-6 students, individual courses, a wide range of special  courses as well as courses that can be accumulated for university credits.
jesus fermin email: jesus@malacainstituto.com phone: s a great language exchange community, where members can freely search for language exchange partners and share their languages.
it has preserved its original urban fabric to a remarkable degree, with wide streets, colonnaded houses in a profusion of styles and colors, and many mature trees in the public open space and private gardens.
short and long terms of study are offered all the  year round.
the program is offered by the uw linguistics department.
for additional information, please contact: ken ryan email:webmaster@studyspanish.com phone: 907-248-2283 spanish courses in spain.
by early 2008, mango languages plans to launch the second version of the  site which will further refine and polish the original language lessons, and  add new lessons in hebrew, arabic, korean, polish, vietnamese, thai, cantonese  chinese, irish gaelic, farsi, hindi, turkish and ukrainian.
credit: 6-9 transferable credits from the state university of new york at  suny’s (public) tuition rates.
a landmark institution since 1941 when japanese-american soldiers were first trained to become translators and interpreters in wwii, dliflc has transformed several times and today teaches 24 languages with courses lasting from 26 to 64 weeks, depending on the difficulty of the language.
we offer russian language courses in moscow, st.petersburg and odessa.
n jones advocacy chair, flava
auburn university's independent learning  courses - elementary russian bertrand russell italian language school italian language school in padua near venice.
for additional information, please contact: susana rojas email: info@interhispanica.com.ar phone: 05449613685 russian language courses in the centre of st. petersburg, russia
for additional information, please contact: nicolas krueger email: stg@studylingua.ch the fulbright program is sponsored by the united states department of state and arranges direct one-to-one classroom exchanges to over thirty countries for teachers at the elementary, secondary, two-year, and four-year college levels.
our spanish immersion program - the travelling classroom - is based in merida from which expeditions by sea kayak, hiking and mountain bike take students on adventure travels to the orinoco delta, gran sabana and mochima national park while continuing daily language tuition.
all printables are originally created by our members, and are in fully editable doc/ppt formats.
all our instructors are highly qualified with proven experience teaching students of all levels and cultural backgrounds.
participants may also feel free to share news and links of interest to latin  teachers.
find useful online information about the destinations, schools and free on-line language tests for the students.
for additional information, please contact: todd pekel email: toddpekel@gmail.com phone: 302310200474
for additional information, please contact: marc lindsay email:
for additional information, please contact: email: feedback@vistawide.com learn french free directory of french language schools in france, caribbean, canada and tahiti.
for additional information, please contact: todd pekel email: toddpekel@gmail.com phone: 302310200474 link description: learn spanish online quickly and easily using one of the best developed learn spanish learning packs around.
all this and much, much more will enrich the experience of participants at online educa berlin through a wide variety of workshops, discussion forums and presentations.
we also organize homestays with argentine families.
the mat@usc,  is the same rigor as our traditional on-campus mat program, conceived and built  around an honest discussion about how to integrate theory effectively with  classroom practice.
email: marge@nwsemail.org phone: (262) 749-0564 onkwawenna kentyohkwa has been teaching the mohawk language to six nations for 10 years.
for the two esl courses, the opposite applies in that phrases and sentences are spelled out in the student’s native language (either spanish or polish) and also in english.
paper, forms, custom full color forms, notepads, continuous paper, perforated, 2 part, 3 part and 4 part!
business english, english with golf etc.
for additional information, please contact: julia lamb email: jlamb@niu.edu phone: 815-753-1595 spanish and english lessons in san miguel de allende,puerto vallarta and zihuatanejo, mexico.
educators have the option to earn graduate school credit (3 credits through indiana university) and professional development credit while seeing the world.
for additional information, please contact: email: web@academiaisla.com
we are currently seeking host families for several 15-18 year old boys and girls from countries such as germany, france, belgium, italy, taiwan, vietnam, hungary, poland, colombia, brazil, and china among many others.
the groups of words range from fruit and vegetables to basketball.
program starfish ventures specializes in volunteer travel, volunteer  programs, volunteer work and many more activities in thailand.
educators are also permitted to bring along a non-educator guest.
geeo is offering 16 different travel programs for the summer of 2012: india/nepal, vietnam, thailand/laos/cambodia, china, russia/mongolia/china, egypt, turkey 8 day, turkey 15 day, south africa/mozambique/zimbabwe/botswana, morocco, argentina/uruguay/brazil, peru, ecuador, the galapagos islands and costa rica.
the houses are located within easy reach of our school and the main city attractions.
members can  also write/read language school and book reviews, articles and activities.
spanish classes with university level instructors.
we provide live online one-on-one spanish tutoring for  those learning spanish at all levels.
in just 12 months of full-time study, students are prepared for a variety of positions including jobs as translational technology specialists and linguistic data specialists.
for additional information, please contact: jason pomerantz email:
for additional information, please contact: email: movingoncourse@gmail.com booligan.com is a free website for college students to trade textbooks and swap with other students from their campus.
the lessons focus on teaching proper pronunciation and vocabulary in the foreign language, along with some grammar instructions as well.
tlacotalpan, a spanish colonial river port on the gulf coast of méxico, was founded in the mid-16th century.
find useful online information  about the destinations, schools and free on-line language tests for the  students.
charles e. long email: clong@choate.edu islcollective.com is hosting the internet second language collective, a file-swapping community of fle, ele, esl and daf teachers sharing free, downloadable language-teaching materials.
the school is  centrally located and offers a range of spanish courses including, intensive  spanish group classes of 20 or 30 hours per week, private classes and  additional cultural classes.
learn spanish with our spanish courses the whole year round.
for additional information, please contact: sherry kramer email: kramersa@state.mi.us phone: 517-373-7248 for additional information, please contact: karen paschal phone: 614-728-3471 click on "board policies," and then click on "policy 2520" to view frameworks document.
ebatrust offers quality  spanish instruction at affordable rates in the best locations of central buenos  aires.
participants may also feel free to share news and links of interest to latin teachers.
will travel for additional information, please contact: carla elms email: spanish@coinet.com
the university of southern california's master of arts in teaching program (the mat@usc) was created as a trailblazing curriculum that integrates rich, interactive online learning with intensive, school-based fieldwork experiences, no matter where students live.
visit http://www.spanishdict.com to start learning spanish today!
email: info@pimsleur-language.com malaca  instituto - learn spanish in spain learn spanish in spain, spanish courses in malaga, spain.
learning programs international established in 1989, lpi provides study abroad opportunities in  spain, france, italy, england, costa rica and mexico for high school students  from across the united states.
there are numerous useful web-based materials available  to linguists and the general public.
for additional information, please contact: siegmar schulz email: siegmar@spanishcentermerida.com vamos spanish academy is a buenos aires spanish school.
the mat@usc, is the same rigor as our traditional on-campus mat program, conceived and built around an honest discussion about how to integrate theory effectively with classroom practice.
interested individuals will register themselves into the language learner  registry this llr website, will be responsible for updating their contact  information if that changes, and will be communicated with directly
learn new languages from native speakers for free.
for additional information, please contact: ted tucker email: ted@teflbootcamp.com the international  research foundation for english language education tirf, the international research foundation for english language  education, is a nonprofit organization whose mission is to generate new  knowledge about english language teaching and learning.
tirf plans to apply research findings to practical language problems by working collaboratively with teachers, researchers, authors, publishers, philanthropic foundations, government agencies, and major companies.
includes a glossary, articles, case studies & much more!
friendly, professional spanish classes with  university-level instructors.
expanish spanish school in buenos aires offers the best spanish learning facilities and highest teaching standards in argentina.
whether you are beginner or fluent in french, have tailor-made lessons and exercises.
no. eduquality offers free, independent advice to people wishing to learn a language abroad.
for additional information, please contact: jacob richman email: jrichman@jr.co.il this is a program to train individuals who can fluently use persian (farsi) in career/job settings.
customers can choose from a wide range of language  programmes, accommodationas and destinations abroad.
accommodation, visa support  and excursions/travel support are also included.
for additional information, please contact: email:  web@academiaisla.com languages of the world
study german abroad at one of the recommended german language schools.
earn spanish in buenos aires, argentina.
each year, over 2,500 international students, business people, immigrants and other english-language learners come to the international center to improve their english, learn about american culture and make friends from around the world.
informacion sobre los mayores aspectos de la historia, lenguaje, literatura, musica, y arte del pueblo quechua.
for additional information, please contact: anibal cuno email: anibal.links@internetstudios.org for additional information, please contact: rahel sussman email: rsussman@chinesesavvy.net accommodation in peru a cheap price for additional information, please contact: ricardo gonzales email: info@cuscoperuhotel.com phone: 9670918 academic year programs in france for high school and university students.
in this context, spanish is emerging as the second lingua franca in the world.
includes a glossary,  articles, case studies & much more!
geeo can be reached 7 days a  week, toll free at 1-877-600-0105 between 9am-9pm est.
dolo publications, inc download free short (3-5 minute long) hilarious skits in spanish,  french, german and english (for esl learners) for immediate use with beginning  and intermediate level students.
(there is no $25 payment for registry member requested tests.)
includes an  extensive series of free, online language learning modules!
credit: 6-9 transferable credits from the state university of new york at suny’s (public) tuition rates.
tefl boot camp also has a free component of tefl training.
)  is the government's premier provider of foreign language training.
many students have expressed positive feelings about the lively and interactive classes available at pc tech.
this allows us to offer personalized attention to each student, ensuring their understanding and success in the language.
for over 20 years we have been teaching people from all over the world.
free directory of italian language schools in italy study abroad italian in italy.
for additional information, please contact: nancy pearlman email: npearl@bennington.edu phone: 802-440-4710 teaching foreign languages streamed videos, guides and web sites for teacher professional development and preservice education.
tango and spanish, extracurricular activities, accommodations,  internships and travel packages.
program: the advanced critical languages institute for russian immersion (acli) is a total immersion russian language program designed jointly by the state university of new york at stony brook and astrakhan state university (astrakhan, russia).
for additional information, please contact: hank email:info@learngermanabroad.com job search at international organizations.
for additional information, please contact: adina baya email: adina@lingo24.com learn spanish in spain at zador spanish language schools in alicante, costa blanca, and vitoria, basque country.
abbyledford81@gmail.com resources for  teachers of french scuola di italiano dante alighieri camerino
for additional information, please contact: ben wilding email: b.wilding@brighton.ac.uk phone: 07886806797 english course in england english course in england to study english, learn english and  speak english all day.
tirf’s vision is that in the 21st century, personal and social value accrues to individuals who are proficient in english and in some additional language.
online masters in teaching - tesol informational paragraph: the university of southern california's  master of arts in teaching program (the mat@usc) was created as a trailblazing  curriculum that integrates rich, interactive online learning with intensive,  school-based fieldwork experiences, no matter where students live.
don’t just learn, experience spanish.
learn french in france, learn english in canada, learn spanish in  spain, learn german in germany, learn english in the usa, learn english in  england, learn portuguese in brazil, learn spanish in mexico...
buespanish we offer different spanish courses: intensive, standard and  private classes.
comprehensive interactive multimedia standard arabic language course for all levels from elementary to college.
a tales fines, la asociación organiza cursos, seminarios de capacitación continua para docentes y clases de español para alumnos
for additional information, please contact: elena chernuho email: promotion@lsbf.org.uk gatlin international’s elearningcentre.co.uk contains the world’s largest collection of online continuing education classes.
please update your urls to www.language-exchanges.org.
for additional information, please contact: email: info@ebatrust.com phone: +54-11-4312-7757 translingo is the language exchange community portal.
it offers another  vocabulary that the students can use to express their ideas, feelings and  concepts.
our campus is a beautiful 5 acre private reserve, filled with trees and wildlife.
michigan english test success includes 3 e-books: vocabulary, idiom, and grammar preparation; practice tests; and listening practice with mp3 downloads.
students become active, self- motivated constructors of meaning and therefore life long learners.
ph: (305) 591-9522 toll-free: (800) 245-8485 fax: (888) 248-9518
email: fsamora@mail.com argentina interhispanica learn spanish in buenos aires, one of latin america's most  cosmopolitan cities.
links to other web sites of benefit to foreign language educators.
spanish language courses, volunteer work, accommodation and cultural workshops in: cusco, sacred valley and manu.
aatp is a nonprofit, nonpolitical professional organization, whose objectives are to advance and improve the study and teaching of persian language, to promote research in the field of persian language, linguistics, and literature; to further the common interests of teachers in the field; and to facilitate communication and professional cooperation among its members.
no shopping or  purchase capability....links to other providers.
expanish aims to go the extra mile for all its  spanish students, offering a variety of great extra social and cultural  activities, a video and audio room, and student discount card.
875 montreal way saint paul, mn 55102 ph: (651) 290-2800 fx: (651) 290-2828 for additional information, please contact: email: educate@emcp.com 8787 orion place columbus oh 43240 ph: 1-800-2mc-graw 10 davis dr belmont, ca 94002 ph: (617) 348-8128 fx: (617) 426-4379 austin, tx 78759 ph: (512) 721-7807 toll-free: (800) 992-1627 fx: (512) 721-7833
the school offers italian language courses for all levels, special courses and the celi exam.
travel and culture information for additional information, please contact: paqui martin email: paqui.martin@donquijote.org phone: +34923 27 72 01 customized spanish immersion courses, language immersion summer camps, and travel in the off-the-beaten-paths of green spain.
for additional information, please contact: dmitry konovalov email: ruslanguage@mail.ru tesol spain conference description: 24-26 tesol spain 29th.
for additional information, please contact: email: info@ebatrust.com for additional information, please contact: mary ann lyman-hager email: mlymanha@mail.sdsu.edu phone: 619-594-5480 we are one of the new nlrcs funded in august 2002
the u.s. department of state sponsors the national language initiative for youth (nsli-y) program for american high school students ages 15-18 to study critical languages overseas for a summer (6 weeks) or an academic year (9 - 11 months).
useful information about the evolution of major languages.
for additional information, please contact: marco ziegler email: marco@studyrussian.com
experience offers a wide range of spanish language courses for university  students, professionals, seniors, non-native teachers and a popular summer camp  for teens.
free e-book and practice materials plus expert advice makes this site the place for online ielts test preparation.
for additional information, please contact: andreas stauffer email: verwaltung@studylingua-sprachaufenthalte.ch tefl boot camp is a long established online training program for people who want to teach english as a foreign language (tefl or tesol).
for additional information, please contact: sharon kazmierski email: latinteach@latinteach.com ñandutí is your resource on foreign language learning in grades k-8.
learn english in england, canada or malta, spanish in spain, french in france, german in austria, italian in italy and russian in russia.
for additional information, please contact: rossella bianchi email: school@centromachiavelli.it der wecker, german for alarm clock, is the german american community's discussion forum along the baltimore-washington corridor and throughout the chesapeake and delaware bay region.
you will find all you need to teach spanish at justo lamas magazine.com we offer a ton of products including posters, grammar books, stickers, cds, room decor, big banners, learning charts and more!
they have a wide experience in teaching spanish to students, tourists, executives and embassy officials and will motivate you to learn in a pleasant and amusing way.
jean leloup email: leloupj@cortland.edu survey of audio-visual resources for classics for additional information, please contact: janice siegel email: jfsiege@ilstu.edu phone: 309-438-3583 latinteach latinteach is an online e-mail discussion forum for latin  teachers.
we hope the sites listed here will inspire you to travel, experience new cultures and become involved in a fulfilling adventure.
learn a foreign languages online for free at www.mangolanguages.com.
nsli-y provides full, merit-based  scholarships for language study.
the advanced critical languages institute for russian immersion (acli) is a total immersion russian language program designed jointly by the state university of new york at stony brook and colleagues from 7 russian partner universities.
volunteer host families provide the meals for the exchange student and a place to stay (a student must have his or her own bed in either a separate room or in a shared room with a host sibling of similar age and same gender).
our spanish academy is located in the heart of madrid, so you can  come to our courses, move around and get to know some of the nicest spots in  the city easily.
formal language classes are complemented by cultural activities which immerse participants in the local language and culture.
the italian language school il centro is situated in the historic centre of milan and staffed by highly qualified mother-tongue instructors.
for additional information, please contact: gerard gatoux email: ggatoux@mindspring.com phone: 404 303 2150 ext.
we offer different spanish courses: intensive, standard and private classes.
sarah fudin email: sarah.fudin@usc.edu englisch sprachschulen.
justo lamas email: justolamas@teachingspanish.org phone: 214-912-1483 verb2verbe this site provides conjugations, translations and online testing  of over 4000 french and english verbs could be of use to students of both  languages.
tips  about travelling overseas.
jesus fermin email: jesus@malacainstituto.com phone: +34952299740 free online spanish and french lessons.
for additional information, please contact: kun shi email:shi.7@osu.edu phone: 614-292-0460
we offer a full range of intellectual, social, and cultural activities.
madrid university antonio nebrija integral information for students willing to learn spanish in  madrid spain with the university antonio de nebrija for additional information, please contact: daniel  pérez
brief messages about potential job postings and available candidates are also considered relevant to the list.
all courses offered at verbum are tought with the aim of enabling students to pass the internationally recognised exams.
mac os 9.x and os x users can switch between english and arabic menus on the fly, while mac os 8.x
hablando live don’t just learn, experience spanish.
vistawide world languages and cultures a website to help promote language learning: reasons to learn a  foreign language, tips for learning foreign language, careers in foreign  languages, how to find local language resources, information about language  learning in the united states, studying abroad, and more.
zador offers spanish  language courses to study spanish abroad in spain to learn to speak spanish.
to encourage the encounter of spanish teachers from the whole world in order to share their experiences and knowledge.
for additional information, please contact: carlos marruffo email: elsol_sistemas@idiomasperu.com phone: 511-242-7763 newen offers spanish courses for all levels.
detailed information about each trip, including itineraries, costs, travel  dates, and more can be found at www.geeo.org.
most of our instructors have their ma in teaching arabic as a foreign language (tafl) and are experienced in this field.
max 6 students in classes, at meal times, during daily trips and in accommodation.
tips about travelling overseas.
we are online chinese learning school.
the benefits for the language learner registered in the database are: registry members are paid $25 each time they are interviewed for a  practice test by a tester trainee during a tester training workshop.
the spanish center merida offers year-round immersion courses with native speaking tutors.
for additional information, please contact: rubylene oblig email: center.elearning@gmail.com phone: +639159659861 free french lessons online, thorough grammar explanations, audio, video, and articles on language and culture learn to speak spanish online by listening to native spanish speakers.
buenos aires learning spanish is a spanish teaching center for foreigners, located in buenos aires, argentina.
the goal of latinteach is to provide a meeting place for latin teachers to share ideas about pedagogy, teaching methodology, techniques and strategies.
our trainers and writers have an  average of a masters degree, post graduate training in tefl, at least 15 years  experience teaching overseas and we work to integrate that experience into the  training program.
international language stays and study abroad.
for additional information, please contact: rebecca stromeyer email: info@online-educa.com phone: +49-30-327 6140 has 25 free online lessons.
in addition to the quality of educational aspects, verbum provides accomodation in carefully selected families, hostels, bed & breakfast or apartments for additional information, please contact: marina boschi email: marina.boschi@verbum.biz phone: (54-011)
daniel blance email: info@learn-french-in-france.info learn  german abroad learn german abroad is a free directory of german language  schools in germany and austria.
students learn vocabulary and grammar by engaging in real and meaningful conversations that are broken down line by line, word for word.
marc@helplearnspanish.com for additional information, please contact: william  willbrant
justo lamas email: justolamas@teachingspanish.org phone: 214-912-1483 this site provides conjugations, translations and online testing of over 4000 french and english verbs could be of use to students of both languages.
for additional information, please contact: rhonda hanson email: rhond@allstardirectories.com
these second languages encompass both official and international languages.
classes are scheduled flexibly at morning or afternoon in private or group sessions.
the american council on the teaching of foreign languages (actfl)  is launching a new initiative, the language learner registry (llr), an on-line  registry of language learners - all languages - all levels of proficiency.
for additional information, please contact: abby ledford email:
we have the support of an academic team with over 40 years experience on education.
studylingua sprachreisen
global exploration for educators organization  (geeo) global exploration for educators organization (geeo) is a 501c3  non-profit organization that runs summer professional development travel  programs designed for teachers.
dates: acli will be held in astrakhan, russia, june 17-august 3, 2010.
you should direct any concerns to such external site's administrator or webmaster.
for additional information, please contact: anna poeti email: direzione@scuoladantealighieri.org spanish language source a listing of spanish language schools in the u.s and abroad.
jesse frickenstein email: jfrickenstein@robertwelchuniversity.org phone: 800-241-2882 we offer private live french lessons by videoconferencing provided by a trained french teacher located in paris.
these are college level courses.
email: roland.wang@echineselearning.com phone: +8613141496145 lingo24 has created a career guide to translation for language graduates or any other people interested in developing their language skills.
spanish immersion program in cusco, peru, with amauta spanish school.
rantz@fiddleandburn.com phone: 631-261-2381 speak another language with confidence!
learn to speak german in munich, learn german in vienna, learn german in berlin and many other locations.
for additional information, please contact: hilary plass email: madrid06@tesol-spain.org phone: 34913691774 learn to speak english, french, german, italian, japanese, portuguese, russian, spanish or swedish like a native, living and studying in a country where your target language is spoken.
jacqui email:info@medical-spanish.info
spanishdict.com is a comprehensive spanish learning website that, in addition to its popular spanish-english dictionary and translation, offers lots of other spanish learning materials completely for free!
lpi works closely with fully-accredited foreign  universities and the lpi resident staff in each program location in order to  provide cultural activities, tutoring services, language exchanges, volunteer  opportunities, and numerous possibilities for improving language performance.
tirf plans to apply  research findings to practical language problems by working collaboratively  with teachers, researchers, authors, publishers, philanthropic foundations,  government agencies, and major companies.
for additional information, please contact: raymond carboni email: ray@webtalentmarketing.com esl sprachaufenthalte proposes since over a decade a wide range of language programmes and destinations abroad.
englisch sprachreisen
connecting to the world through languages.
for information about the program, contact the matsl office at 802-440-4710 or matsl@bennington.edu, or visit our website at http://www.bennington.edu/acad_grad_matsl.asp.
professional & affordable spanish immersion programs.
ebatrust earn spanish in buenos aires, argentina.
texas lutheran university the defense language institute foreign  language center the defense language institute foreign language center (dliflc
for additional information, please contact: donna clementi email: clementi@cord.edu phone: 920-734-1170 all travel peru, peru maps, a complete guide to peru, learn spanish in peru
the goal of acli is ultimate attainment (full fluency in a non-native language) in russian, a critical language.
olé languages barcelona spanish school olé languages is a small spanish school dedicated to  teaching spanish as a foreign language in an open, personal an enjoyable  atmosphere.
the conference will be accompanied by an exhibition featuring many of the companies active in e-learning.
ken petersen email: kpeter@actr.org japanese program - university of arkansas international society for technology in  education (iste) for additional information, please contact: leslie conery email: lconery@iste.org phone: 800-302-5191 flteach foreign language teaching forum -- discussion list w/more than  4200 members in over 60 countries, discussing issues dealing w/fl learning and  instruction.
chinesesavvy.com features an online toolbox for chinese learners.
hermosa sprachaufenthalte hermosa sprachaufenthalte has a long experience in selling  language courses worldwide.
a full range of tools allows members to speak, listen, write and read with their exchange partner so that all areas of their language learning are covered.
disclaimer: the american council on the teaching of foreign languages (actfl) web site contains links to other web sites, resources and advertisers.
immersion courses in peru.
erb learning our goal is to help light the pathways to student learning with  quality assessments to inform "next-steps" instruction and admission  decisions.
input a keyword(s) and see typical related phrases translated  simultaneously into french, spanish, italian and german.
she evaluates various resources she has used herself as an intermediate level speaker of spanish, as well as ones suitable for novices, and gives tips on using flashcard programs, staying motivated, and studying abroad.
geeo provides teachers educational materials and the structure to help them bring their experiences into the classroom.
each year their director comes from france to interview american families interested in participating in the program and arrange matches with suitable french children.
our goal is to help light the pathways to student learning with quality assessments to inform "next-steps" instruction and admission decisions.
aade´s aims are both, to foster the use of our language and to make  learning an enjoyable experience.
however, families are eligible for a modest tax deduction for each month they host a student.
cybersmart! offers facilitated online professional development in 21st century skills, free student curriculum including lesson plans, activity sheets, downloadable posters and safety tips, and a free toolbar for educators' desktops.
for additional information, please contact: bartho kriek email: bkriek@planet.nl phone: 0031235246562
the experience acquired in teaching the italian language to students from many different countries around the world has enabled it to continuously improve the quality of their lessons.
iallt is an actfl affiliate organization whose members provide leadership in the development, integration, evaluation and management of instructional technology for the teaching and learning of language, literature and culture.
we are known for our small group classes, with no more than 5 people per group.
for additional information, please contact: enrica cavo email: ilcentro@ilcentro.net international house
the goal of latinteach is to provide a meeting place for latin teachers to  share ideas about pedagogy, teaching methodology, techniques and strategies.
to encourage the encounter of spanish teachers from the whole world in  order to share their experiences and knowledge.
www.teachingspanish.org for additional information, please contact: tomas merlo email: info@teachingspanish.org phone: 972-245-4535 useful information about the evolution of major languages.
check out our tesol concentration at http://mat.usc.edu/academics/current-teachers/tesol/ if you are interested in teaching english to speakers of other languages or our teaching resources (http://mat.usc.edu/category/teacher-resources/).
all words are displayed using graphics.
tbc is  a program for teachers written by teachers.
geeo is offering 16 different travel programs for the summer of 2012:  india/nepal, vietnam, thailand/laos/cambodia, china, russia/mongolia/china,  egypt, turkey 8 day, turkey 15 day, south africa/mozambique/zimbabwe/botswana,  morocco, argentina/uruguay/brazil, peru, ecuador, the galapagos islands and  costa rica.
the personal character of amistad institute is supplemented by all the resources of a large institution.
we have the support of an academic team with over 40 years  experience on education.
visit our website for a description of, photo gallery, accommodation options and a variety of social-cultural activities with us, here in tlacotalpan world heritage site by unesco www.iestlacotalpan.edu.mx
users require apple's arabic language kit.
as you practice and converse in spanish, the spirit and culture of latin america will come to life around you, making it even easier for you to absorb the language naturally.
italian language and culture courses in italy in milano,florence, rome and siena.
you  can view their website in english and spanish.
for additional information, please contact: jorge dennis email: webmasterhuancayo@gmail.com phone: 9772812 estudio buenos aires offers spanish tuition in group or individual classes.
our main goals are: to foster the use of our language recognising dialectical differences and promote it beyond its linguistic boundaries to promote argentina as a vital spanish diffusion centre.
nancy lattin email: nlattin@hrw.com 909 davis st evanston, il 60201 ph: (847) 424-3222 toll-free: (800) 323-4068 fx: (847) 424-3424 for additional information, please contact: email: lori_diaz@hmco.com one lake street upper saddle river, nj 07458 ph: (201) 236-7000
phone: +41 21-791-32-80 enforex offers spanish language programs for high school and college students at schools throughout spain and latin america.
visual and interactive spanish course with several subject areas to choose from, also contains downloadable teaching and learning resources in spanish.
for additional information, please contact: j barry haywood (ail)
this is our own proprietary database and free to use by actfl's visitors.
amistad institute offers specially developed spanish language, and cultural training programs (around 26 program combinations with basic, professional and special spanish programs).
we have programs specially designed to meet the needs of every individual, and our flexible course schedules can accommodate any lifestyle.
fax (506) 269.0005 for additional information, please contact: rebeca demes email: spanish@amistadinstitute.net phone: (506) 269.0002 arabic language schools, dictionary, words and other resources about arabic.
webmaster email:addmylink@gmail.com learn spanish in our spanish schools in spain.
courses in universities and spanish schools for additional information, please contact: alejandro neyra email: alejandro.dosalproyectos@gmail.com spanish scholarships in argentina starfish ventures specializes in volunteer travel, volunteer programs, volunteer work and many more activities in thailand.
we offer spanish courses for all levels to competitive prices taught by  dedicated, highly qualified native spanish speakers spanish in tour study spanish in spain.
intgrated into each program are spanish language focussed activites and workshops providing students with a deeper understanding of argentine spanish.
my hebrew dictionary is an on-line resource containing groups of english words translated into hebrew.
got a book you're finished with advertise it chances are, there's a handful of students who need that very book next semester.
songs and innovative language games and activities are also occasionally  available to download.
language courses with nacel find language courses with nacel, a leading language course  organisation.
for additional information, please contact: juan ancosmez email: webmaster@tandem-schools.com italian language schools and courses in italy at scuola leonardo da vinci.
no commercial sites, please.
phone: +44 (0) 870 225 0284
otros enlaces (links).
we also offer  different accommodation options for additional information, please contact: lorena sinso email: info@buespanish.com.ar phone: +541143816347 english to spanish translations transpanish provides english <> spanish translations,  including proofreading, editing, and desktop publishing.
william willbrant email: info@pimsleur-language.com learn spanish in spain, spanish courses in malaga, spain.
for additional information, please contact: email: sales@sansinc.com 2105 nw 86th ave miami, fl 33122
the advanced critical languages  institute for russian immersion the advanced critical languages institute for russian immersion  (acli) is a total immersion russian language program designed jointly by the  state university of new york at stony brook and colleagues from 7 russian  partner universities.
the defense language institute foreign language center (dliflc) is the government's premier provider of foreign language training.
the term œmodern¹ is used for historical reasons and is not intended to exclude any language.
org, as it more appropriately represents the status of the association.
established in 1995 it is situated in the green maadi area in cairo-egypt.
for additional information, please contact: ken petersen email: kpeter@actr.org phone: 202-833-7222 ext.
cybersmart! helps educators gain the 21st century skills needed to  safely harness the internet's potential - promoting students' creative inquiry,  collaboration and critical thinking.
the  user can also click on each word to hear the pronunciation or click a button to  hear the whole sentence spoken by a native speaker at a rapid conversational  pace.
schools in venezuela ecuador mexico or spain.
download free short (3-5 minute long) hilarious skits in spanish, french, german and english (for esl learners) for immediate use with beginning and intermediate level students.
with activities such as tango lessons, argentinian cinema lessons, tours and social activities, horseback riding, football matches, polo.
information and materials for individual  languages are also available.
madrid international house madrid based in the heart of the spanish  capital is part of the prestigous international house world organisation and  offers language courses including spanish for foreigners as well as teacher  training in both spanish and english.
the program provides awards of up to $5,000 for u.s. citizen undergraduate students at two- and four-year institutions to pursue semester or academic-year long study opportunities in other countries.
latinteach is a place for teachers to come and get positive ideas so that we can all be better teachers!
founded in 1971 malaca instituto has gained an enviable international reputation and is now widely recognised as being one of the best language schools in spain.
international specialists with global expertise will focus on e-learning and examine topics that range from case studies from the world of business and education to the various problems encountered with technology-supported-learning; from language learning over the internet to the implications of life-long learning, not to mention the subject of e-learning at university.
for additional information, please contact: anna poeti email: direzione@scuoladantealighieri.org a listing of spanish language schools in the u.s and abroad.
italian language school located in tuscany, in pisa and in seaside city viareggio.
for additional information, please contact: daniel email:info@learn-italian-in-italy.info the michigan english test success course prepares students for the michigan english test, ecpe, melicet, and mtelp.
it offers another vocabulary that the students can use to express their ideas, feelings and concepts.
registry members have the opportunity to request a milestone test for themselves twice a year as a means of monitoring their own language learning progress.
online educa berlin international conference on technology supported learning & training meeting the networking needs of the international e-learning industry, the annual online educa berlin conference is a key event for strategists and practitioners from all over the world.
the  school offers italian language courses for all levels, special courses and the  celi exam.
live online spanish  learning hablandolive, is dedicated to the goal of bringing the spanish language to  life for our students.
esperanto league for north america estudio buenos aires, spanish school quality spanish instruction at affordable rates in buenos aires,  argentina.
for additional information, please contact: abby ledford email: abbyledford81@gmail.com
a new concept, mangolanguages.com has married the teaching abilities of linguistic teachers from around the world with the latest software technologies, providing users with an easy to access way to learn a foreign language online at their own pace.
actfl is not responsible for the availability of these external sites nor does it endorse or is it responsible for the contents, advertising, products or other materials made available on or through such external sites.
each unit includes a quiz based on the unit’s content.
paper, forms, custom full color forms,  notepads, continuous paper, perforated, 2 part, 3 part and 4 part!
hedayet institute is a language institute teaching arabic as a foreign language as well as related subjects.
students have their own spending money to cover personal expenses and have accident and health insurance through the program.
detailed information about each trip, including itineraries, costs, travel dates, and more can be found at www.geeo.org.
justo lamas magazine you will find all you need to teach spanish at justo lamas  magazine.com we offer a ton of products including posters, grammar books,  stickers, cds, room decor, big banners, learning charts and more!
carboni email: ray@webtalentmarketing.com esl  sprachaufenthalte esl sprachaufenthalte proposes since over a decade a wide range  of language programmes and destinations abroad.
products can be ordered by going to www.dliflc.edu the international center in new york is a nonprofit english-language and cultural education school located in new york city.
that is guaranteed to be a benefit to yourself, your students, and your future as an education professional.
attracting more than 1200 practitioners from over 60 countries every year, online educa berlin is one of the largest gatherings of e-learning professionals in europe, enabling you to develop multinational and cross-industry partnerships and increase your knowledge and expertise in e-learning.
our site also includes a "speech dictionary" composed of common phrases used in everyday oral chinese indexed alphabetically by category and content.
(instituto de estudios superiores tlacotalpan) is accredited by the department of education of mexico, and with over 16 years of experience, we are recognized as one of the finest colleges in vera cruz state and méxico.
hermosa sprachaufenthalte offers language packages for children, teenagers and adults of all ages.
curriculum requires over 700 hours of coursework, and meets world academic standards.
for additional information, please contact: jeannette tarcha email: jeannette.tarcha@mangolanguages.com phone: 734.812.0812 chinesesavvy.com is a website dedicated to the study of china, its language, and its culture built by language students for language students.
for additional information, please contact: webmaster -
for additional information, please contact: exequiela email:info@transpanish.biz funding agencies back to top national endowment for  the humanities studylingua sprachaufenthalte useful information about language schools worldwide with  available cities to learn a language.
our completely interactive online e-learning environment is designed to  help you learn spanish quickly and easily from the comfort of your own home.
aade is a non-profit organisation active in the field of linguistics and inter-cultural education which reunites teachers with university degree and experienced in teaching spanish as a foreign language.
our courses are for beginners and for advanced students, and we also  offer enrolment into regular university programs.
the italian language school il centro is situated in the historic  centre of milan and staffed by highly qualified mother-tongue instructors.
our first product is mandarin chinese taught online by  professional native speaker teachers in beijing.
for additional information, please contact: carlos zetina email: lehaim4@hotmail.com for additional information, please contact:
lerne englisch an einer englischen sprachschule
the website contains information about language and language  study, as well as descriptions of the major language families of the world and  their most important and populous languages.
for additional information, please contact: rachel ballard email: info@fluencynow.com phone: 805-456-0397 for additional information, please contact: susanne even email: evens@indiana.edu phone: 812.855.7562
for additional information, please contact: john macow email: prashant@sansoftonline.com miscellaneous back to top actfl language learner registry (llr)
eligibility: undergraduates and graduates students with 2+ years of  russian may apply.
also features intensive courses, individual tutoring, and classes in cooking and art.
quality translation services in albania aade es una asociación sin fines de lucro que nuclea a profesionales de la enseñanza del español como lengua segunda y extranjera.
we have created an online portal (www.livingspanish.com) where people can sign up for free online spanish courses and also find a lot of resources to studying spanish.
our creative, interactive course materials are designed by our teaching staff and are included in the tuition fee.
mango languages offers free foreign language lessons in a dozen languages at  www.mangolanguages.com.
educators have the option to earn graduate school credit (3 credits  through indiana university) and professional development credit while seeing  the world.
email: nhedayet@yahoo.com phone: 202-5272190 the international association for language learning technology, established in 1965.
customers can choose from a wide range of language programmes, accommodationas and destinations abroad.
for additional information, please contact: loretta garcia williams email: lwillia@pisd.edu phone: (972) 519-8196
we offer russian language courses in moscow, st.petersburg and  odessa.
year-round specialized programming for youth and adults including staff development opportunities are also provided.
their site also  includes glossaries in various topics such as medicine, law, and physics.
email: barry@eurolingua.com phone: +33 467 15 04 73
acli is especially appropriate for those who have already studied in  russia on a standard study abroad program and want to be challenged further.
the active involvement of mind and body helps students to grasp an abstract concept more effectively than if they were simply reading about it in a textbook.
i am looking forward to hearing from you soon, for additional information, please contact: elena gozalo email: webmaster@barcelona-university.es
many services provided involving the spanish language.
for additional information, please contact: claire bartlett email: bartlett@rice.edu phone: 713-348-6156 russian language courses offer flexible study programs at moscow state university: group or individual classes from beginner to advanced from four weeks to full academic year with visa support, accommodation and excursions around moscow and trip to saint petersburg.
no previous language proficiency required.
request admissions information from schools that interest you.
each child spends 6 months in the other’s home.
mangolanguages.com features 100 lessons in nearly a dozen languages, including: spanish, english for spanish and polish speakers, french, italian, brazilian portuguese, german, russian, mandarin chinese, japanese and greek.
for the two esl courses, the opposite applies in that phrases  and sentences are spelled out in the student’s native language (either  spanish or polish) and also in english.
each year, over 2,500 international students, business  people, immigrants and other english-language learners come to the  international center to improve their english, learn about american culture and  make friends from around the world.
programs include early childhood learning and continuing education.
patrick raven email: csctfl@aol.com the southeast chinese language association (secla) serves as a forum for confucius institutes, confucius classrooms, and chinese language educators to share experience, exchange ideas, and improve the practice and teaching pedagogy.
through lpi, students are able to equip themselves with a working knowledge of  a foreign language, earn college credit, experience another culture and explore  the area around their program city through cultural excursions.
tirf’s vision is that in the 21st century, personal and social value  accrues to individuals who are proficient in english and in some additional  language.
the inaugural launch of mangolanguages.com features 100 lessons in nearly  a dozen languages, including: spanish, english for spanish and polish speakers,  french, italian, brazilian portuguese, german, russian, mandarin chinese,  japanese and greek.
pr manager say hola to the future of foreign language learning on the web.
most of our instructors have their ma in teaching arabic as a  foreign language (tafl) and are experienced in this field.
spanish school in argentina - volunteering and language for additional information, please contact: email: admin@unilanguage.com.ar
sicily sardinia siena assisi
acli students enjoy wonderful  russian-speaking homestays while studying for 4-5 hours daily in small groups  with local russian pedagogy specialists.
a landmark  institution since 1941 when japanese-american soldiers were first trained to  become translators and interpreters in wwii, dliflc has transformed several  times and today teaches 24 languages with courses lasting from 26 to 64 weeks,  depending on the difficulty of the language.
for additional information, please contact: ryan damerow email: tirfonline@gmail.com translation school university of southern california’s
for additional information, please contact: wilmer aguirre email: informatica2@amautaspanish.com total immersion experience in spanish for business and professional areas in spain.
for additional information, please contact: gabriella email:gabriella@lingo24.com benjamin a. gilman international scholarship sponsored by the u.s. department of state, bureau of educational and cultural affairs and administered by the institute of international education, this program enables students who have limited financial means to participate in study abroad opportunities worldwide.
by providing an  alternative audio, visual and kinesthetic symbol system; the performing arts  can serve as an important resource of communication.
latinteach is a place for teachers to come and get positive ideas so that  we can all be better teachers!
includes an extensive series of free, online language learning modules!
language  learning techniques are also covered.
we have more than 40 destinations to propose you !
studying italian language is fun!
the trips are open to all nationalities of k-12 and  university educators and administrators, as well as retired educators.
for additional information, please contact: leslie conery email: lconery@iste.org phone: 800-302-5191 foreign language teaching forum -- discussion list w/more than 4200 members in over 60 countries, discussing issues dealing w/fl learning and instruction.
learn english / esl free with idioms grammar  and songs learn spanish learn spanish guide learn spanish in buenos aires with expanish expanish spanish school in buenos aires offers the best spanish  learning facilities and highest teaching standards in argentina.
applied language solutions translation company with loads of cultural information, map,  flags, country information.
for additional information, please contact: email: contact@expanish.com
it has native teachers, qualified to transmit the knowledge of the language in a friendly atmosphere, by means of methods of tested efficiency.
info@escuelabellavista.cl phone: (56 02) 732 34 43 the best spanish school in buenos aires, argentina.
we strive to create a warm and friendly environment in every classroom.
for additional information, please contact: michelle macy email: mmacy@tempest.coedu.usf.edu phone: 813-974-4879 kwla, jcps gheens academy, 4425 preston hwy., louisville, ky 40213
for additional information, please contact: email: info@vsi.tv
translation company with loads of cultural information, map, flags, country information.
for additional information, please contact: cyndie silliman email: pcsilliman1986@att.net the italian language school centro machiavelli has been open for more than thirty years.
host families are not compensated for hosting a high school exchange student per u.s. department of state regulations.
say hola to the future of foreign language learning on the web.
for additional information, please contact: email: jesse@geeo.org guavatalk's mission is to provide affordable online language education to the world.
living spanish we are a spanish non-profit organization that aims to promote the  spanish language worldwide.
this is not a site where the reader will learn any spanish; rather, it is about the process of doing so.
the afmlta believes that there is value in all language learning and is accordingly interested in promoting the teaching and learning of any language (ancient, modern, œcommunity¹, aboriginal, traditional, international, european, asian or other).
log on to check it  out at mangolanguages.com for additional information, please contact: jeannette  tarcha email: jeannette.tarcha@mangolanguages.com learn italian carbonless carbonless everything!
our spanish academy is located in the heart of madrid, so you can come to our courses, move around and get to know some of the nicest spots in the city easily.
a guide of all spanish schools arround the world, we give online support for teachers and students to help them find the best school in latin america, central america or spain for additional information, please contact: santiago demierre email: santiago.demierre@learn-spanish-guide.com phone: 0041 78
the australian federation of modern language teachers associations (afmlta inc.) is the national professional body representing teachers of all languages in australia.
besides we offer special courses to prepare these examinations.
by actfl and one of the leading afl centers in the area of me since 12 years.
the school organizes intensive italian language courses in viareggio, italy.
(the listing for flava in the yol is correct).
acli also includes lectures, films,  student activities clubs and visits to nearby volgograd and elista.
zador offers spanish language courses to study spanish abroad in spain to learn to speak spanish.
the goal of acli is ultimate attainment (full fluency in a  non-native language) in russian, a critical language.
for additional information, please contact: katherine  carrillo email: katherine.links@internetstudios.org phone: 5184 971  1253 career guide to translations
for additional information, please contact: ingrid pufahl email: ingrid@cal.org ...a huge language and culture resource center.
the active involvement of mind and body helps students to grasp an  abstract concept more effectively than if they were simply reading about it in  a textbook.
annual dues: $25 per year.
for additional information, please contact: ken petersen email: kpeter@actr.org phone: 202-833-7522 ext.
lessons are conducted using the direct communicative method and utilizing materials developed by the school staff.
the website contains information about language and language study, as well as descriptions of the major language families of the world and their most important and populous languages.
for additional information, please contact: katherine carrillo email: katherine.links@internetstudios.org phone: 5184 971 1253
our page is not only unique, but contains over 50,000 phrases covering a  vast range of topics, translated simultaneously into english, french, italian,  spanish & italian.
each word in the dictionary has an english - french translation and a photograph of the item.
you can enjoy our european culture, and immerse yourself in a spanish-speaking environment by studying spanish and at the same time being in touch with native speakers who are professionals committed to your success in speaking spanish fluently.
acli is especially  appropriate for those who have already studied in russia on a standard study  abroad program and want to be challenged further.
for additional information, please contact: michele mcleod email: mmcleod@learner.org phone: 202-783-0500 ext.
we have earned an outstanding reputation among our clientele, which has included basf, ericsson, volkswagen, merck, and many others.
email: fsamora@mail.com learn spanish in buenos aires, one of latin america's most cosmopolitan cities.
our courses are for beginners and for advanced students, and we also offer enrolment into regular university programs.
there is an explanation of the vowels and letters.
for additional information, please contact: susana rojas email: info@interhispanica.com.ar language studio, st. petersburg, russia russian language courses in the centre of st. petersburg, russia russian language course study
standard personalized and summer medical programs available.
max 6 students in classes, at meal times, during daily  trips and in accommodation.
no shopping or purchase capability....links to other providers.
"voices in the classroom" universidad complutense, facultad de filología a, madrid, convention coordinator: hilary plass email: madrid06@tesol-spain.org.
for additional information, please contact: marcelo cuestas email: eduquality@eduquality.net phone: +34934236623 spanish language courses, voluntary work, accommodation and excursions.
for additional information, please contact: email: waz@jakera.com job search at international organizations.
description: gatlin international's elearningcentre.co.uk contains the world's largest collection of online continuing education classes.
for additional information, please contact: william smart email: onlinemarketing@clic.es phone: 345-978-098 ext.
eslworldwide.com isla spanish language school isla is spanish language school offering spanish language courses  for learners of all ages and free spanish online materials for spanish learners  and educators.
by providing an alternative audio, visual and kinesthetic symbol system; the performing arts can serve as an important resource of communication.
acli students speak only russian for the duration of the 7-week program.
a  full range of tools allows members to speak, listen, write and read with their  exchange partner so that all areas of their language learning are covered.
the site is valuable  for instructors and students alike.
learn kyrgyz contains reviews of resources for kyrgyz language learners,  including kyrgyz dictionaries, textbooks and language websites.
we offer spanish courses for all levels to competitive prices taught by dedicated, highly qualified native spanish speakers study spanish in spain.
in spanish la página del idioma español el sol - learn spanish in peru el sol spanish language school located in peru, offers six  programs, homestay, volunteer oportunities and more.
we are working to create the capacity in ohio schools to establish language programs that lead to solid communication skills in mandarin chinese, in both spoken and written media.
ph: (203) 315-5529 toll-free: (800) 686-7669 fx: (203) 481-4870
for additional information, please contact: todd pekel email: toddpekel@gmail.com phone: +30 2310 200474 master of arts in teaching a second language (matsl) degree offered at bennington college: this low-residency program is designed for working k-12 teachers of french and spanish with a new session beginning in july of each year.
offers courses on italian language for foreigners, semester and summer study abroad programs.
come and join starfish ventures in thailand and make the real difference.
we use the communicative method to develop our spanish classes.
if you have sites that you've used in the classroom or to develop lesson plans, use the link below to submit your link.
brief messages about potential job postings and available candidates  are also considered relevant to the list.
if you live abroad or in the us, we have a program for you.
8 levels of teaching.
study spanish in peru.
its purpose is to help people with self-study through online resources, software programs, and more.
aade´s aims are both, to foster the use of our language and to make learning an enjoyable experience.
international language stays and  study abroad.
learn spanish online link description: learn spanish online quickly and easily using  one of the best developed learn spanish learning packs around.
online italian courses.
sharon  kazmierski email: latinteach@latinteach.com nanduti: early foreign language learning adn nandu listserv ñandutí is your resource on foreign language  learning in grades k-8.
offers free lessons, tutorials and exercises for understanding the spanish language.
we even have padding glue!
we  have programs specially designed to meet the needs of every individual, and our  flexible course schedules can accommodate any lifestyle.
school situated in argentina,south america, offers spanish immersion programs combined with a homestay experience and a community service project .
short and long terms of study are offered all the year round.
marc@helplearnspanish.com for additional information, please contact:
swissstudies.org promotes the teaching and learning about switzerland.
in addition to the language and cultural programs, we offer volunteer (service-learning) programs, to help the participants to get a practical immersion into the language and the culture, and besides that to help people with less privileges.
for additional information, please contact: carolina castro email: info@guaulengua.com concordia language villages provides programming in fourteen different languages (arabic, chinese, danish, english, finnish, french, german, italian, japanese, korean, norwegian, russian, spanish, swedish for young people between the ages of 7 and 18.
academic year in france academic year programs in france for high school and university  students.
argentina interhispanica learn spanish in buenos aires, one of latin america's most  cosmopolitan cities.
the courses adapt to the possibilities and to the needs of the students.
although the address you have, ofla-online.
as the need for military language acquisition has increased, so has the budget and quality of products to support the warrior linguist.
the school, located in the historic center of florence in italy, offers italian courses in small groups or individuals, arts and artisans courses, italian cooking course and more.
when  practice tests need to be scheduled in their language.
i will be more than happy to forward you bios, of some of the students we are seeking host families for, to review.
hermosa sprachaufenthalte has a long experience in selling language courses worldwide.
contact icwe gmbh leibnizstr.
our most versatile resource is chinese savvy's comprehensive chinese-english/english-chinese dictionary with multiple forms of input.
we’ve trained over 121,000 people and given thousands more the skills and confidence to teach english in countries all over the globe.
a tales fines, la asociación organiza cursos, seminarios de  capacitación continua para docentes y clases de español para  alumnos no hispanohablantes.
johl garling email: jgarling@eurocosm.com shambles in  s.e,asia - mfl department for additional information, please contact: chris smith email: csmith@iesf.net about the french language free resouces for students, teachers, and lovers of french,  including lessons, quizzes, sound files, cultural information, dictionaries,  and linguistics.
our spanish language program will change your life!
phone: 541-536-9545 tandem, an association of independent quality institutions of further education, offers language courses abroad (english, spanish, german, french or italian) supported with language exchange partnerships in 30 destinations in europe and south america.
our bulletin board - ask questions about our language and meet others interested in studying!
log on to check it out at mangolanguages.com for additional information, please contact: jeannette tarcha email: jeannette.tarcha@mangolanguages.com phone: 734.812.0812 carbonless everything!
unlike other language acquisition products, mangolanguages.com is unique  because it features a one-of-a-kind comprehensive teaching approach that  actively engages audio and visual cues to assist users in language acquisition.
for additional information, please contact: emily shen email: emily.shen@chinesesavvy.net german language search engine spanish language search engine french language search engine japanese language search engine spanish , english, german , french, italian and many more language resources.
contact (877) 850-3312 or visit our website at www.nwse.com.
you can find in ole courses all you are looking for in the destination you want to attend your spanish course and enjoy what the destination has to offer: nature, sun beach, mountain, nightlife, surf, glof, art, flamenco, party… for additional information, please contact:
visit our web-site to get free survival chinese videos, sign up for a free class, or to learn more about our company.
a career guide to translation for language students or any other  people interested in developing their language skills.
aade is a non-profit organisation active in  the field of linguistics and inter-cultural education which reunites teachers  with university degree and experienced in teaching spanish as a foreign  language.
daniel blance email: info@learn-french-in-france.info learn german abroad is a free directory of german language schools in germany and austria.
input a keyword(s) and see typical related phrases translated simultaneously into french, spanish, italian and german.
lpi works closely with fully-accredited foreign universities and the lpi resident staff in each program location in order to provide cultural activities, tutoring services, language exchanges, volunteer opportunities, and numerous possibilities for improving language performance.
teach them your native language as exchange.
this is the main web site for the american council of teachers of russian.
for additional information, please contact: amelia belocura email: center.elearning@gmail.com kindly use this link detail for our site description.
it has total immersion and  study abroad programmes.
for additional information, please contact: john macow email: prashant@sansoftonline.com phone: 04654646-546 the american council on the teaching of foreign languages (actfl) is launching a new initiative, the language learner registry (llr), an on-line registry of language learners - all languages - all levels of proficiency.
accommodation facilities with chilean families or students.
for additional information, please contact: david liu email:zliu@presby.edu the director of hias is one of the very first opi certified tester in arabic as a foreign lang.
face-to-face conversations with our experienced tutors, based out of the  prestigious peru language center, bring our students into a fascinating  hands-on learning experience.
for additional information, please contact: gabriela appel email: gxa9@psu.edu phone: 814-863-3360 learn spanish in cuzco peru, courses accord you requirements, spanish immersion courses, stardard, individual, accommodation, volunteer work, excursions cultural workshops, all our teachers have university degree for additional information, please contact: wilmer miguel email: internet@perulanguage.com phone: 51-84-9932430 learn spanish in latin america is a spanish language program including adventure travel in venezuela, latin america.
a website to help promote language learning: reasons to learn a foreign language, tips for learning foreign language, careers in foreign languages, how to find local language resources, information about language learning in the united states, studying abroad, and more.
its purpose is to help people with  self-study through online resources, software programs, and more.
mango languages offers free foreign language lessons in a dozen languages at www.mangolanguages.com.
32 10625 berlin tel.: +49 - 30 - 327 61 40 fax: +49 - 30 - 324 98 33 info@online-educa.com www.online-educa.com
we have an online language offering including latin, greek, and hebrew.
lerne englisch an einer englischen  sprachschule
olé languages is a small spanish school dedicated to teaching spanish as a foreign language in an open, personal an enjoyable atmosphere.
a career guide to translation for language students or any other people interested in developing their language skills.
the words that make up the phrases and  sentences are color-coded so the user understands how each word translates.
the u.s. department of state sponsors the national language  initiative for youth (nsli-y) program for american high school students ages  15-18 to study critical languages overseas for a summer (6 weeks) or an  academic year (9 - 11 months).
the words that make up the phrases and sentences are color-coded so the user understands how each word translates.
toll-free: (800) 618-7375 fx: (617) 426-5215 for additional information, please contact: email: acozzaglio@vistahigherlearning.com for additional information, please contact: email: luca@accademiaeuropeafirenze.it
this is not a site  where the reader will learn any spanish; rather, it is about the process of  doing so.
anna geisherik email: acli@notes.cc.sunysb.edu
our first product is mandarin chinese taught online by professional native speaker teachers in beijing.
the italian language school terramare offers language courses in small groups of 2-6 students, individual courses, a wide range of special courses as well as courses that can be accumulated for university credits.
we offer various accommodation alternatives and leisure activities to guarantee an enjoyable stay.
it offers information about exchange programs, job opportunities and publications.
the trips are 8 to 24 days in length and are designed and discounted  to be interesting and affordable for teachers.
for additional information, please contact: chris johnson email: cjohnson@languageresourceonline.com american association for employment in education, inc. for additional information, please contact: bj bryant email:office@aaee.org multilingual phrase dictionary mutlilingual phrase dictionaries are very useful to (especially  multilingual) language students, but very rare.
through lpi, students are able to equip themselves with a working knowledge of a foreign language, earn college credit, experience another culture and explore the area around their program city through cultural excursions.
as the need for military language  acquisition has increased, so has the budget and quality of products to support  the warrior linguist.
for additional information, please contact: ted tucker email: ted@teflbootcamp.com tirf, the international research foundation for english language education, is a nonprofit organization whose mission is to generate new knowledge about english language teaching and learning.
thanks for your time.
no previous language proficiency  required.
we offer small group classes, private tuition and customized courses for all level or learners.
language instruction  is combined with rigorous cultural activities that togethr enhance arabic  proficiency of hias students.
kwintessential kwintessential offer free tools, resources, games, articles and  information about languages and cultures.
the performing arts are wonderful instruments for language instruction because they incorporate different learning styles and intelligence types engaging the whole person in verbal and nonverbal multi-sensory ways of self-expression and communication.
french in action, destinos and fokus deutsch videos for language learning.
u.s. department of education us information agency cultural exchange  programs information resources back to top acli -
perhaps this webbsite would be of interest to you?
acli students enjoy wonderful  russian-speaking homestays while studying for 4-5 hours daily in small groups  at the school of philology of st. petersburg state university.
m.c. m.c. email:spiritoitaliano1@virgilio.it phone: 055 study spanish in the best spanish schools in spain.
for additional information, please contact: ryan damerow email: tirfonline@gmail.com informational paragraph:
the site is valuable for instructors and students alike.
acli students speak only russian for the duration of the 6-week program.
la página del idioma español el sol spanish language school located in peru, offers six programs, homestay, volunteer oportunities and more.
pawan email:pawan.solanky@seovalley.com
kwintessential offer free tools, resources, games, articles and information about languages and cultures.
free transaltion tools as well as professional  translation for additional information, please contact: richard michie email: rmichie@appliedlanguage.com
for additional information, please contact: sarah phillips
study french abroad and learn french in antibes, learn french in paris, provence, cannes, guadeloupe … for additional information, please contact:
acli also  includes lectures, films, and a dynamic cultural program.
unlike other language acquisition products, mangolanguages.com is unique because it features a one-of-a-kind comprehensive teaching approach that actively engages audio and visual cues to assist users in language acquisition.
some songs include sheet music, mp3 recordings and midi tunes.
we  offer over 45 discussion and lecture classes each week, as well as practical  skills workshops, social and cultural activities, and the city's largest  one-to-one esol program.
our main goals are: to foster the use of our language recognising dialectical differences and  promote it beyond its linguistic boundaries to promote argentina as a vital spanish diffusion centre.
the director of hias is one of the first certified opi tester in  arabic by actfl in 1992.
juan manuel mosiño email: jmmosino@gmail.com
learn spanish in buenos aires, one of latin america's most cosmopolitan cities.
we offer individual and group classes, full immersion programs, and can arrange accommodation with argentine host families.
for additional information, please contact: email: derwecker@hotmail.com a non-profit organization for children ages 9-13 to pair an american and a french child of the same age to participate in a 1 year cultural and language exchange.
st james st boston, ma 02116 ph: (617) 426-4910
the program also offers an optional internship providing students with the hands-on experience that employers value, as well as monthly guest lectures, which are excellent networking opportunities.
most programs include homestays.
our goal is to make your spanish learning experience easier and fun.
laura mcdonald email: laura.mcdonald@i-to-i.com my french picture dictionary is a free, online, resource to learn french (or english) words in a fun way.
by early 2008, mango languages plans to launch the second version of the site which will further refine and polish the original language lessons, and add new lessons in hebrew, arabic, korean, polish, vietnamese, thai, cantonese chinese, irish gaelic, farsi, hindi, turkish and ukrainian.
information and materials for individual languages are also available.
for additional information, please contact: tsvetomir nikolov email: tnikolov@appliedlanguage.com
learn spanish rapidly is a website and blog run by an american librarian turned writer living in mexico.
for additional information, please contact: todd bryant email: bryantt@dickinson.edu phone: 717-254-8941 for additional information, please contact: johanna watzinger-tharp email: j.tharp@utah.edu phone: 801 587 9285 italian language school in florence and online, learn italian language with methods adapted to the students' desires and abilities.
this registry will be part of the actfl oral proficiency tester training program.
each unit includes a quiz based on  the unit’s content.
she evaluates  various resources she has used herself as an intermediate level speaker of  spanish, as well as ones suitable for novices, and gives tips on using  flashcard programs, staying motivated, and studying abroad.
phone: +41 21-791-32-80 spanish in spain enforex offers spanish language programs for high school and  college students at schools throughout spain and latin america.
acli is especially appropriate for those who have already studied in russia on a standard study abroad program and want to be challenged further.
the computer section itself has over 400 terms.
the director of hias is one of the first certified opi tester in arabic by actfl in 1992.
languages include arabic, chinese (mandarin),  hindi, persian, korean, turkish, and russian.
practice tests, free e-book and vacabulary exercises.
also features intensive courses,  individual tutoring, and classes in cooking and art.
students from briey (france) and atlanta (usa) share ideas and cultural information.
we offer a wide range of spanish courses for all the needs, accommodation in host family, flat or residence and cultural activities to enjoy your stay.
got a book you're  finished with advertise it chances are, there's a handful of students who need  that very book next semester.
medical spanish is a benefit for all doctors and healthcare professionals for additional information, please contact:
launched in september 2009, our resource library now includes over 8000 worksheets, and is growing by the day so it’s worth checking back every now and then.
for additional information, please contact: carlos  marruffo email: elsol_sistemas@idiomasperu.com phone: 511-242-7763 newen escuela de español newen offers spanish courses for all levels.
the goal of acli is ultimate attainment (full fluency in a non-native  language) in russian, a critical language.
links will open in a new browser window.
claudia rodriguez email: info@andesschool.com.ar phone: +54-264-4224527 the purpose of this website is to provide language instruction and other cultural, political, and social information about southeast asia.
for additional information, please contact: vikas gangpari email: gangpari.vikas@gmail.com phone: 980-235-6781 dutch language schools, dictionary, words and other resources for additional information, please contact: vikas gangpari email: gangpari.vikas@gmail.com phone: 980-235-6781 you can learn indian languages hindi and marathi by clicking on each alphabet to hear their sound.
for additional information, please contact: alex esterkin email: admin@lingozone.com spanish courses in spain and latin america.
there are also special programs: spanish and tango, argentinean culture immersion.
for additional information, please contact: robin prinsen email: robinprinsen@gmail.com phone: 0034 923 28 04 28 english course in england to study english, learn english and speak english all day.
registry members have the opportunity to request a milestone test for  themselves twice a year as a means of monitoring their own language learning  progress.
isla is spanish language school offering spanish language courses for learners of all ages and free spanish online materials for spanish learners and educators.
as classes increasingly collaborate across state and national  boundaries via the internet, cyber safety becomes a key instructional  component.
hedayet institute for arabic studies (hias) hedayet institute is a language institute teaching arabic as a  foreign language as well as related subjects.
for additional information, please contact: araceli ruiz email: info@zadorspain.com phone: +34945234895 michigan proficiency exams everything needed for melab, melicet, mtelp and ecpe (michigan  proficiency) success.
this is our own proprietary database and free to use by  actfl's visitors.
as you practice and converse in spanish, the  spirit and culture of latin america will come to life around you, making it  even easier for you to absorb the language naturally.
respectfully, rebeca demes amistad institute frente al ebais, barrio jesus santa barbara, heredia, costa rica phone (506) 269.0002
advanced critical languages institute (acli)  russian immersion), a new study abroad opportunity in russia for summer 2010 program: the advanced critical languages institute for russian  immersion (acli) is a total immersion russian language program designed jointly  by the state university of new york at stony brook and astrakhan state  university (astrakhan, russia).
founded  in 1971 malaca instituto has gained an enviable international reputation and is  now widely recognised as being one of the best language schools in spain.
geeo provides teachers  educational materials and the structure to help them bring their experiences  into the classroom.
ñandu, a listserv for school district personnel, superintendents, teachers, college and university teacher educators, and parents, is sponsored by the improving foreign language instruction project of the northeast and islands regional educational laboratory at brown university (lab) and funded by the u.s. department of education.
we have more  than 40 destinations to propose you !
for additional information, please contact: ben wilding email: b.wilding@brighton.ac.uk phone: 07886806797 english course in england to study english, learn english and speak english all day.
we offer regular, intensive and super intensive courses, private tuition and spanish for specific purposes ( business, travelling and literature).
885 6608 use this comprehensive directory to easily locate both online and campus-based education schools.
ebatrust offers quality spanish instruction at affordable rates in the best locations of central buenos aires.
visit our web-site to get free  survival chinese videos, sign up for a free class, or to learn more about our  company.
email: gilman@iie.org phone: (713) 621-6300 ext.
nwse video http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iv0rxoih07c
expanish aims to go the extra mile for all its spanish students, offering a variety of great extra social and cultural activities, a video and audio room, and student discount card.
bilingual arabic-english interface.
for additional information, please contact: marge ryan
language instruction is combined with rigorous cultural activities that togethr enhance arabic proficiency of hias students.
for additional information, please contact: patrice sarfati email: p.sarfati@telefrench.com phone: 870-202-663 ext.
top free resources for students and teachers of spanish.
it also small group non -intensive language classes and tutorials.
liberal arts college in detroit, mi offering undergraduate and graduate language programs
thankyou for your support.
cybersmart! offers facilitated online  professional development in 21st century skills, free student curriculum  including lesson plans, activity sheets, downloadable posters and safety tips,  and a free toolbar for educators' desktops.
for additional information, please contact: rahul joshi email: rahul_joshi@hotmail.com learn medical spanish at a language school that specializes in medical spanish programs.
students learn vocabulary and grammar by engaging in real and meaningful  conversations that are broken down line by line, word for word.
our curriculum encourages student to improve spoken english with through a monologue method, which involves a lot of speaking and talking with each other and instructors.
for additional information, please contact: david slade email: sladeetal@hotmail.com phone: 26582824 ext.
booligan.com is a free website for college students to trade  textbooks and swap with other students from their campus.
for additional information, please contact: chris johnson email: cjohnson@languageresourceonline.com phone: 540-438-7673 for additional information, please contact: bj bryant email:office@aaee.org phone: 614.485.1111 mutlilingual phrase dictionaries are very useful to (especially multilingual) language students, but very rare.
the benefits for the language learner registered in the database are: registry members are paid $25 each time they are interviewed for a practice test by a tester trainee during a tester training workshop.
for additional information, please contact: exequiela email:info@transpanish.biz useful information about language schools worldwide with available cities to learn a language.
for additional information, please contact: juan masonero email: informacion@universpain.com
keep in touch with your teacher by email throughout your learning process.
phrases and sentences are spelled out in both the language the student is trying to learn and in english.
we've recently updated our website to include: > information on the levels of study available (including pictures and information of our current staff and students), >
students become active, self- motivated  constructors of meaning and therefore life long learners.
centro puccini italian language school the school organizes intensive italian language courses in  viareggio, italy.
the trips are 8 to 24 days in length and are designed and discounted to be interesting and affordable for teachers.
for additional information, please contact: email: customerservice@santillanausa.com 31
phone: +52(55)59858439 american association of teachers of persian (aatp) founded in 1989.
study & learn spanish instituto de estudios superiores tlacotalpan, vera cruz, méxico spanish for spanish teachers program.
there are extracurricular activities that will  help in the immersion in the language and culture (dance classes, football  matches, visits to museums and theatres, night outings and more).
for additional information, please contact: velijun perez email: booligan.com@gmail.com phone: 4525645 ext.
italian language school in padua near venice.
the user can also click on each word to hear the pronunciation or click a button to hear the whole sentence spoken by a native speaker at a rapid conversational pace.
dominik email:contact@stateuniversity.com we host both a spring (in march) as well as a fall (in october)conference for additional information, please contact: mohamed esa email: mesa@wmdc.edu phone: (410)857-2462 for additional information, please contact: marina peters-newell email: mpnewell@unm.edu phone: (505) 277-0525
check out our tesol concentration at  http://mat.usc.edu/academics/current-teachers/tesol/ if you are interested in  teaching english to speakers of other languages or our teaching resources  (http://mat.usc.edu/category/teacher-resources/).
classes are  scheduled flexibly at morning or afternoon in private or group sessions.
nocomprendo language services visual and interactive spanish course with several subject areas  to choose from, also contains downloadable teaching and learning resources in  spanish.
email: daniel.perez@madrid-university.es mixwerk information for people in the translation and voiceover business.
tbc is a program for teachers written by teachers.
find programs in any location, at any degree level, in over 50 concentrations.
email: info@iberospanish.com phone: - ext. -.
for additional information, please contact: jacob richman email: jrichman@jr.co.il learn hebrew verbs is a free, on-line, educational resource containing 300 hebrew verbs conjugated in all tenses (past, present, future, imperative).
global exploration for educators organization (geeo) is a 501c3 non-profit organization that runs summer professional development travel programs designed for teachers.
the website offers online resources, such as teaching materials (eg. syllabi), cultural, political, and government information about switzerland, conference announcements, and funding opportunities to teachers, scholars, and students of german, french, and italian.
the tools are free for teachers to use, and is possible to use in 11 languages regards maria adventure education is a portal dedicated to education opportunities around the world that involve adventure.
for additional information, please contact: norah jones email: njones@cambridge.org phone: 434-944-5646 for additional information, please contact: vernon lacour email: vernon.lacour@mgccc.edu phone: 228 897-3790 please correct our url.
this  registry will be part of the actfl oral proficiency tester training program.
integral information for students willing to learn spanish in madrid spain with the university antonio de nebrija for additional information, please contact: daniel pérez email: daniel.perez@madrid-university.es information for people in the translation and voiceover business.
johl garling email: jgarling@eurocosm.com for additional information, please contact: chris smith email: csmith@iesf.net free resouces for students, teachers, and lovers of french, including lessons, quizzes, sound files, cultural information, dictionaries, and linguistics.
tango and spanish, extracurricular activities, accommodations, internships and travel packages.
within this context, aade offers spanish courses in buenos aires.
the interface is simple and both kids and adults will find this new resource entertaining and educational italian language and culture homestays in florence and tuscany a new on-line resource to help north carolina teachers teach about the world.
there are also special programs: spanish and tango,  argentinean culture immersion.
you can view their website in english and spanish.
offers courses on italian language for foreigners,  semester and summer study abroad programs.
the site is free and is a great resource for students.
maria email:movingoncourse@gmail.com spanish language school summer 2007 in historic monument zone of: tlacotalpan.
acli students enjoy wonderful russian-speaking homestays while studying for 4-5 hours daily in small groups with local russian pedagogy specialists.
a new concept, mangolanguages.com has married the teaching abilities of  linguistic teachers from around the world with the latest software  technologies, providing users with an easy to access way to learn a foreign  language online at their own pace.
free transaltion tools as well as professional translation for additional information, please contact: richard michie email: rmichie@appliedlanguage.com
we even have  padding glue!
quality spanish instruction at affordable rates in buenos aires, argentina.
we also offer free email language lessons on subscription for spanish and  english learners and free teacher resources for spanish language teachers.
worldwide translation schools directory.
anna geisherik email: acli@notes.cc.sunysb.edu association for  supervision and curriculum development center for advanced research on language  acquisition center for applied linguistics creative bridges for language learning the performing arts are wonderful instruments for language  instruction because they incorporate different learning styles and intelligence  types engaging the whole person in verbal and nonverbal multi-sensory ways of  self-expression and communication.
more information info@andesschool.com.ar for additional information, please contact:
we have created an online portal  (www.livingspanish.com) where people can sign up for free online spanish  courses and also find a lot of resources to studying spanish.
andreas  stauffer email: verwaltung@studylingua-sprachaufenthalte.ch tefl boot camp tefl boot camp is a long established online training program for  people who want to teach english as a foreign language (tefl or tesol).
for additional information, please contact: adina baya email: adina@lingo24.com learn spanish in spain  - alicante - vitoria learn spanish in spain at zador spanish language schools in  alicante, costa blanca, and vitoria, basque country.
our spanish lessons are fun and dynamic, so that you can learn in an effective way.
in particular, interactive language instructional materials for thailand, indonesia, burma, vietnam, the philippines (tagalog), cambodia and laos have been developed.
carol radomski email: radomskica@state.gov the project is a website that meshes everything from podcasts, ebooks, online classes, and opencourseware.
for additional information, please contact: email:  feedback@vistawide.com learn french in france learn french free directory of french language schools in france,  caribbean, canada and tahiti.
songs and innovative language games and activities are also occasionally available to download.
cultural and linguistic barriers throughout the world are falling.
for additional information, please contact: narayan solanky email: narayan.solanky@gmail.com phone: 234-567-2345 this is the main organization for all less commonly taught languages for additional information, please contact: antonia schleicher email: ayschlei@wisc.edu phone: 608-265-7903 resource for teachers and students of russian.
we offer a series of (3) courses in each subject area.
for additional information, please contact: katherine carrillo email: katherine.links@internetstudios.org phone: 51 84 971 1253 spanish language courses are ideal for students of all ages who want to learn spanish
therefore, tirf’s mission embodies four major goals: -to implement a research and development program that will generate new  knowledge and inform and improve the quality of english language teaching and  learning; -to promote the application of research to practical language  problems; -to collect, organize, and disseminate information and research on  the teaching and learning of language; and -to influence the formation and  implementation of appropriate language education policies, recognizing the  importance of indigenous languages and cultures worldwide, and of english as an  international language.
our trainers and writers have an average of a masters degree, post graduate training in tefl, at least 15 years experience teaching overseas and we work to integrate that experience into the training program.
presentations of their products and services will be made by genuine e-learning professionals in the vendor track.
also included are english words written using hindi script to product the exact english pronounciations.
languages include arabic, chinese (mandarin), hindi, persian, korean, turkish, and russian.
for additional information, please contact: email:  jesse@geeo.org guavatalk guavatalk's mission is to provide affordable online language  education to the world.
for additional information, please contact: maria perez email: info@vamospanish.com on our website, you will find detailed and up-to-date information on our two language centres, the programmes we offer, course dates, prices and booking instructions.
for additional information, please contact: anibal cuno email: anibal.links@internetstudios.org for additional information, please contact: rahel sussman email: rsussman@chinesesavvy.net accommodation in peru a cheap price for additional information, please contact: ricardo  gonzales email: info@cuscoperuhotel.com phone: 9670918
ibero spanish school has the best university-level instructors, and we stand out from our competitors by giving students attention according to each person's learning needs.
gerald baker email: spanish4u@prodigy.net.mx spanish teacher’s chatboard free chatboard, chat room, and conference rom with latin’s culture celebrities for all usa, canadian and british spanish teachers and for those who are in any country where the spanish is taught.
live online spanish learning hablandolive, is dedicated to the goal of bringing the spanish language to life for our students.
quality educational assessments to advance student learning.
for more information, application deadlines and the online application please access the gilman program website at www.iie.org/gilman.
products can be ordered by going to  www.dliflc.edu the international center in new york the international center in new york is a nonprofit  english-language and cultural education school located in new york city.
the discussion list is sponsored by the american classical league.
our "picture of the day" mini-lessons of common phrases and words presented with our local radio station ckrz 100.3fm >
family and students flat accommodation.
for additional information, please contact: rebecca hallengren email: rebecca@loquella.com
the inaugural launch of mangolanguages.com features 100 lessons in nearly a dozen languages, including: spanish, english for spanish and polish speakers, french, italian, brazilian portuguese, german, russian, mandarin chinese, japanese and greek.
we do our best to match students with host families based on similar hobbies and interests in order to ease the student's transition into u.s. family life and culture.
it also small group non -intensive language classes  and tutorials.
there are numerous useful web-based materials available to linguists and the general public.
help us build this list of sites around the world.
for additional information, please contact: julián sánchez email:
we are a spanish institute in costa rica.
for additional information, please contact: narayan  solanky email: narayan.solanky@gmail.com national council of less commonly taught languages this is the main organization for all less commonly taught  languages for additional information, please contact: antonia  schleicher email: ayschlei@wisc.edu phone: 608-265-7903 russnet resource for teachers and students of russian.
for additional information, please contact: webmaster email:webmaster@wiracochaschool.org we offer a wide range of courses to suit your needs and interests and they all offer excellent value for money.
for additional information, please contact: nicolas  krueger email: stg@studylingua.ch the foundation  center the fulbright program the fulbright program is sponsored by the united states  department of state and arranges direct one-to-one classroom exchanges to over  thirty countries for teachers at the elementary, secondary, two-year, and  four-year college levels.
acli students speak only  russian for the duration of the 7-week program.
au pair for americans and french.
international mother language day istituto linguistico mediterraneo italian language school located in tuscany, in pisa and in  seaside city viareggio.
our page is not only unique, but contains over 50,000 phrases covering a vast range of topics, translated simultaneously into english, french, italian, spanish & italian.
face-to-face conversations with our experienced tutors, based out of the prestigious peru language center, bring our students into a fascinating hands-on learning experience.
administrators can participate in six-week shadowing  experiences in nine different countries.
our goal is to make your spanish learning experience  easier and fun.
we offer over 45 discussion and lecture classes each week, as well as practical skills workshops, social and cultural activities, and the city's largest one-to-one esol program.
for additional information, please contact: nagwa, selim hedayet
our spanish lessons are fun and dynamic, so that you can learn in an effective  way.
courses in universities and spanish  schools for additional information, please contact: alejandro  neyra email: alejandro.dosalproyectos@gmail.com spanish scholarships in argentina starfish volunteers
scholarships and facilities available.
get the information you need so you can get the score you deserve.
i-to-i tefl are a leading online and short course tefl, with over 16 years experience in the industry.
learn to speak german in munich, learn german in  vienna, learn german in berlin and many other locations.
for additional information, please contact: roland wang
the classes offer students the opportunity to speak and communicate with each other and their instructor.
we also offer different accommodation options for additional information, please contact: lorena sinso email: info@buespanish.com.ar phone: +541143816347 transpanish provides english <> spanish translations, including proofreading, editing, and desktop publishing.
we are a spanish non-profit organization that aims to promote the spanish language worldwide.
learn italian free directory of italian language schools in italy learn to speak italian in florence rome venice naples milan pisa
for your convenience, you can choose a hebrew or english menu to navigate the site.
this can be a study aboard opportunity to learn a new language, or participation in an adventure activity.
holy innocents' episcopal school and  lycée louis bertrand students from briey (france) and atlanta (usa) share ideas and  cultural information.
each are worth 3 college credits.
courses from 2 to 6 hours per day.
join us and take advantage of 1 free level test and 2 free online demo lessons.
marygrove college liberal arts college in detroit, mi offering undergraduate and  graduate language programs national foreign language center national security language initiative for  youth (nsli-y)
for additional information, please contact: ali abasi email:aabasi@umd.edu phone: 301-405-3315 hi.
please visit us at www.amistadinstitute.net for further information spanish@amistadinstitute.net
for additional information, please contact: email: info@arabicteacher.com the best language schools to people interested in learn a foreign language abroad.
for additional information, please contact: luis martinez email: eteam7@interneteducationservices.com a comprehensive directory of all major u.s. universities and colleges.
we offer various accommodation alternatives and  leisure activities to guarantee an enjoyable stay.
liste de liens de cette belle région méconnue.
learn italian  language and culture in italy.
episodes from our television show "atahkwakayon:ne" broadcast 'aohskon kanyen'keha' (completely in the mohawk language) >
for additional information, please contact: matthew absalom email: editor@afmlta.asn.au the canadian association of second language teachers (caslt) was established in 1970 and has evolved from a small organization of volunteers dedicated to supporting second language teachers into a multi-level organization.
includes information about history, academics, unique programs, student life, student statistics, admissions, athletics, and the local community for each school.
the professional masters in computational linguistics at the university of washington is one of only a few around the world.
established in 1989, lpi provides study abroad opportunities in spain, france, italy, england, costa rica and mexico for high school students from across the united states.
ñandu, a listserv for school district personnel,  superintendents, teachers, college and university teacher educators, and  parents, is sponsored by the improving foreign language instruction project of  the northeast and islands regional educational laboratory at brown university  (lab) and funded by the u.s. department of education.
one of the leading spanish schools in andalusia, colegio  maravillas, an accredited centre of the instituto cervantes has 30 years’
geeo can be reached 7 days a week, toll free at 1-877-600-0105 between 9am-9pm est.
for additional information, please contact: jean leloup email: leloupj@cortland.edu phone: 607-753-2022 for additional information, please contact: janice siegel email: jfsiege@ilstu.edu phone: 309-438-3583 latinteach is an online e-mail discussion forum for latin teachers.
in this moment we have almost 50 different project around the country.
study french abroad and learn french in antibes,  learn french in paris, provence, cannes, guadeloupe … for additional information, please contact:
we are looking for qualified families that might be interested in cultural exchange and volunteering to host a high school exchange student.