adults are actually much better at learning and retaining language-related information than children, as arecent study has shown.
it’s a widely-spread notion that children are much better than adults at picking up new languages, because their brains are easier to rewire, and they don’t have to learn consciously.
if an adult were put into the same situation as a child learning its first language (totally immersed, with multiple repetitions of new words, and no other major tasks to complete), they would develop new language skills much faster than children.
and sometimes, older is better!share and enjoy: name (required)
if you think about it, children take years and years to master a language  and be able to speak it at an adult level.
if an  adult were put into the same situation as a child learning its first language  (totally immersed, with multiple repetitions of new words, and no other major  tasks to complete), they would develop new language skills much faster than  children.
adults were shown to have the best retention rate of this information following the original exposure.
it’s a widely-spread notion that children are much better than adults  at picking up new languages, because their brains are easier to rewire, and  they don’t have to learn consciously.
july 21, 2011 at 10:00 am · filed under news, observations · posted bywendy
adults  are actually much better at learning and retaining language-related information  than children, as arecent study has shown.
› back to language trainers homepage › blog homepage any language, any time, anywhere.
uri captcha codecaptcha code 2008 © language trainers australia and new zealand | blog all rights reserved xhtml · css
8-year-olds, 12-year-olds, and adults were shown a new rule in a made up language, although this rule was never stated explicitly.
if you think about it, children take years and years to master a language and be able to speak it at an adult level.
what’s the take-home message?
adults better than children at learning new language skills july 21, 2011 at 10:00 am · filed under news, observations ·  posted bywendy
this is only partially true.
you’re never too old!
8-year-olds, 12-year-olds, and  adults were shown a new rule in a made up language, although this rule was  never stated explicitly.
older children and adults can become  conversational in a foreign language within a year, if they try hard enough.
adults were shown to have the best retention rate of  this information following the original exposure.
and  sometimes, older is better!
older children and adults can become conversational in a foreign language within a year, if they try hard enough.
the difference is that kids don’t have to think about it so much.