when most dog owners think of e-collars they associate its use with dog containment using an invisible fence (in-ground fencing).
remember - don’t rescue your  puppy if he starts barking from the start as that will only reinforce his  barking behavior.
other dp dog training programs include dog ownership 101, positive puppy  training, basic dog obedience, advanced dog obedience, e-collar training,  behavior evaluation & rehabilitation and housebreaking consultations.
when you feel confident your puppy has accepted his new crate, it is time  to close the crate door and for you to leave the house; be sure to leave with  no fanfare or good byes, just leave.
only correct your dog for not listening to commands you have taught him...do not correct for commands that your dog may be unsure or unclear about.
if you don’t catch your puppy making a mistake, don’t bother  scolding the dog, you didn’t catch him in time and he cannot understand  cause and effect.
any time i interview a dog owner about a particular school or private session with a behaviorist they never mention anything about dog training!
once a dog learns that barking will get them what they want, they will  continue to bark.
spread the paper area around; make the target big enough for the dog to  hit easier.
read my article on the phases of dog training on myobedience training articles page.
©2011 dp dog training, all rights reserved phone: 845-368-0868 | contact us | website design by lois reed iacp member |"good dog site" award winner | aspca member | akc canine good citizen evaluator | dog travel company
most dogs remain like this because they are not trained!
if your dog is not obedience trained, chances are you do not have a line of communication open with your dog and simply put, your dog does not know what you want from him.
if you would like to contact us for more information about how to stop dog jumping or about franks’sdog training programs in new jersey and new york pleaseemail dp dog training or call dp dog training at 845-368-0868.
for example; you are walking your dog on the street and someone wants to pet him and your first thought is how to stop the dog from jumping.
frank d’andrea’s method of leash training a puppy involves three phases of hisdog training philosophy; the learning phase, the correction phase and the proofing phase.
they buy chew toys that last for literally hours, they tie out their dogs in the back yard or they crate their dogs for far too long.
the dog crate should be located in a place in the home where you spend  most of your time.
either way, the right path to how to stop dog jumping and foster good dog behavior is through dog obedience training; by simulating “real life” situations, and then applying them to the real thing.
the  biggest advantage is dog containment without tethers for the dog.
you know the dog likes to jump up, so what do you do?
if your pup is being brought home for the first time, your crate should already be in place and ready for crate training your puppy.
try and understand the reason for your dog barking and  manage that.
if your dog growls when you try to take a rawhide or bone away, then no more rawhide or bones.
these tactics cannot be called dog obedience training because they are very ineffective and certainly not how to stop dog biting…in pups or dogs.
ask us about the innotek underground electric dog fence layout of underground dog fence dog containment using an invisible fence can be as simple as; a single loop around the whole property a loop around just the back yard or a loop around just the front yard
we must help our dogs succeed by putting them on a solid feeding schedule  and exercise schedule plus, making sure that puppies are not in their crates  too long.
when housebreaking a puppy, it may make the occasional mistake.
how to stop puppy dog from biting or nipping let’s start with how to stop dog biting (or nipping) in puppies.
our dog training philosophy involves three phases: dp dog training offers professional dog training programs including dog ownership 101, positive puppy training, basic dog obedience, advanced dog obedience, e-collar training, behavior evaluation & rehabilitation and housebreaking consultations.
ask us about how to stop dog biting dog obedience training is something you must continue to practice with your dog in order to gain and maintain your dog’s respect, especially if your dog is biting.
when a dog has had too much freedom in the house and has never been told correctly how to act when people come over, your efforts to stop dog jumping will usually end in disappointment.
do not grab the dog’s mouth do not stick your fingers in your dog’s mouth do not hit your puppy these tactics cannot be called dog obedience training because they are very  ineffective and certainly not how to stop dog biting…in pups or dogs.
just behind the “dog pulling on the leash” complaint, the second most populardog behavior modification request i get from potential clients is how to stop dog jumping.
remember dogs are pack animals and consider you the leader of the  pack, so they will listen to you if trained to do so properly.
i receive many calls and emails from dog owners who want some form of dog  behavior modification.
the first goal of crate training a puppy is to introduce the kennel crate in a positive manner.
in most cases, issues like excessive barking can easily be kept under  control by simply exercising your dog, putting your dog through daily training  sessions and limiting your dog's freedom in the house.
about dp dog training thank you for taking the time to read this article on housebreaking a puppy  byfrank d’andrea.
" once the puppy is outside, use a command like "go potty" then, when the dog has finished his business, praise and reward your puppy lavishly.
you might think about a second crate especially if your home has more than one level.
although some dogs are downright nasty (and some fearful) remember, you cannot use force on a biting dog (if at all), without knowing why the dog is biting.
how to stop dog barking is not an issue of dog behavior modification; this  is a dog obedience training issue and pack issue.
sometimes a puppy needs to go  more than once, but more importantly pups like to be outside so we don’t  want the pup to associate going to the bathroom with the "come back"
this really is a simple understanding issue, and your job here is to stop  dog jumping by helping your dog understand your commands.
the steps must be followed  properly and patience during the first few weeks is a must.
about dp dog training frank d’andrea, is a professional dog trainer whose dog training  philosophy involves three phases of dog training; the learning phase,  the correction phase and the proofing phase.
then once your leash handling technique is good, and the dog is clear on the command, you can start taking your dog to more distracting places like the park, crowded streets, the kids soccer games, etc.
if you would like to contact our professional dog trainers for more  information or for help with leash training a puppy calldp dog training at 845-368-0868 or send us an email.
frank’s celebrated dog training programs feature his 3-phase dog training philosophy including the learning phase, the correction phase and the proofing phase.
here are a few other suggestions to consider in how to stop dog biting if  your pup will not stop nipping you or the kids; read my article about dogs and kids at www.dpdogtraining.com/articles.html no running around the house - make play outside and have lots of toys to  throw around supervise the pup around the children and lastly, put the pup in the crate, he very well could be over tired and  may need a nap (seecrate training a puppy)
avoid the temptation to believe "he knows he did something wrong."
about dp dog training this article on crate training a puppy is by frank d’andrea, a  professional dog trainer offeringdog training programs in new jersey and new  york including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson  and essex.
this is no problem for the installation phase but when it comes to  training your dog, i would always recommend an experienced dog trainer that can  recognize your dog’s basic character and temperament and train  accordingly.
frank d’andrea is a professional dog trainer with clients throughout  new jersey and new york including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen,  morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
dp dog training programs include dog ownership 101, positive puppy  training, basic dog obedience, advanced dog obedience, e-collar training,  behavior evaluation & rehabilitation and housebreaking consultations.
leash corrections are best taught by aprofessional dog trainer.
ask us about how to stop dog biting how to stop dog biting through dog training dog obedience training is something you must continue to practice with your  dog in order to gain and maintain your dog’s respect, especially if your  dog is biting.
think about this, if dogs are always in commands, they simply cannot do  anything wrong!
crate training provides your puppy with a safe place to den and sleep,  helps with housebreaking, keeps your puppy out of trouble, reduces separation  anxiety, plus has many more benefits for both you and your puppy.
dp dog training programs include: e-collar training behavior evaluation dog ownership 101 positive puppy training basic dog obedience advanced dog obedience rehabilitation & housebreaking consultations if you would like more information about innotek dog collars or about wirelessdog containment using an invisible fence or about any of franks’s dog training programs, pleasecontact us or call dp dog training at 845-368-0868or send us an email.
remember, we teach dogs how to behave in a situation, not how not to behave so let’s be proactive, not reactive.
routine helps when housebreaking a puppy
other puppy training programs include: housebreaking a puppy how to stop dog barking how to stop dog jumping how to stop dog biting dog behavior modification
rehabilitation & housebreaking consultations if you would like more information about innotek dog collars or about  wirelessdog containment using an invisible fence or about any of franks’s  dog training programs, pleasecontact us or call dp dog training at 845-368-0868or send us an email.
leash training & puppy obedience training leash training a puppy, especially young puppies, should be limited to  getting it used to being walked with you holding the leash.
when housebreaking a puppy consistency is the key.
biting and nipping can be alleviated faster with the proper dog obedience training.
use this sign to help signal you when to take  your pup outside.
ask us about housebreaking a puppy housebreaking a puppy is 90% vigilance, 10% dog!
you can eventually reduce the area slowly until it is just one pad.
i only recommend papers for small dogs, possibly in an apartment situation  where you cannot get him outside quick enough.
dogs in command can’t do any wrong all dogs should earn their existence with you and should be able to execute  a simple “sit”, or “down” before you give him anything;  and that includes food, toys, treats, freedom etc.
of course there are pitfalls as well; digging, dirty lawns and the lack of  (or no) training or walks for the dog.
the best way i know how to stop dog jumping is to use the “sit” command.
the bedroom is not always the best choice if you want to  avoid the pup getting up every time you toss and turn or you waking up to an  unnerving bark at three in the morning when you are fast asleep.
at no time and under no circumstances should your dog be allowed to cross the dog containment boundary, even without the dog training collar, otherwise your dog will become confused.
well, as long as you tell me the dog is clear with that command, he should  be corrected for breaking your command; and this will be clear to the dog why  he got a correction.
having a fenced in back yard has many advantages to us as dog owners.
our dog training philosophy involves three phases: the learning phase the correction phase the proofing phase dp dog training offers professional dog training programs including dog  ownership 101, positive puppy training, basic dog obedience, advanced dog  obedience, e-collar training, behavior evaluation & rehabilitation and  housebreaking consultations.
hitting your dog, or rubbing its nose in its stool, etc., does not teach your puppy right from wrong and is considered to be abuse!
enter only when the pup settles down.
dog containment systems using invisible fence, underground fence, hidden fence and such are not difficult to install and can also be installed easily by landscapers or fence installers.
use chew toys and a lot of enthusiastic praise every time he goes in and  out of the crate.
eliminate certain things, train the dog and keep them well exercised and you will find your dog will behave in a much better way.
the innotek dog containment system is basically an electric dog fence with  a buried wire placed around the property line and used in conjunction with a  special electric dog training collar, which the dog wears around his the invisible fence dog collar helps to train the dog so it learns where  the property boundaries are, keeping the dog in the yard.
use this sign to help signal you when to take your pup outside.
as the dog attempts to leave this dog containment area, he will be stimulated by the dog training collar until he retreats.
barking is just one of the ways dogs communicate so the first question i  have when people ask me how to stop dog barking is,"why is the dog  barking?
only correct your dog for not  listening to commands you have taught him...do not correct for commands that  your dog may be unsure or unclear about.
with proper dog training, this is as easy as it comes.
you must then start with more distractions to proof the dog.
if the dog has been trained it can't possibly  jump on your guests from a sit/stay.
read my article on  the phases of dog training on myobedience training articles page.
in my experience i have found that nipping can be another sign that the pup needs to go to the bathroom.
here’s an example: your dog starts excessively barking out the  window.
collars, toys & food when crate training a puppy i do not like using collars when crate training a puppy and recommend  removing your puppy’s collar before crating.
what if a bear wanders onto your property and you walk right out in front  of it…because your dog has been disciplined not to bark?
dog containment may become an issue for some home owners who either cannot put up a physical fence due to the municipalities of their towns, or the dog owner feels a fence would ruin the look of their home and neighborhood.
understanding why dogs behave as they do when the rules are clear and followed through you will find that your dog  is much easier to live with.
as long as you have control over your dog, and you supervise your dog properly, it cannot bite.
dogs are naturally reluctant to soil where they sleep so crate training a puppy early can also help withhousebreaking your puppy.
allow the pup to freely enter and exit the crate several times.
dog training and dog behavior modification go hand in hand and will go a long way in helping you to have a long happy and healthy relationship with your dog.
leash training a puppy, especially young puppies, should be limited to getting it used to being walked with you holding the leash.
if you would like more information about housebreaking a puppy or on any of  our other professional dog training programs pleasecontact us, email dp dog  training or call at 845-368-0868.
it’s what they have learned to do.
in fact by 2010 pet spending is expected to top $50 billion in the us!
it is essential to get your puppy out in a timely manner.
good dog obedience training takes practice so how can you expect to stop  dog jumping and get your dog to obey your wishes and commands if your dog has  never been taught properly and hasn’t had a chance to practice?
frank’s dp dog training programs incorporate the three phases of our dog training philosophy; the learning phase, the correction phase and the proofing phase and includes:dog ownership 101 housebreaking consultations if you would like more information about housebreaking a puppy or on any of our other professional dog training programs pleasecontact us, email dp dog training or call at 845-368-0868.
if you don’t simulate the behavior you want, you will not  succeed nearly as quickly.
tell the dog to  sit/stay.
the underground electric dog fence wire must be laid out in such a manner that it creates a loop (closed circuit).
start by positioning flags on the perimeter of the dog containment boundary where the dog will get the warning tone.
waterproof dog collars - innotek dog collars are also waterproof making them ideal for all dogs that love going into the pond or swimming pool!
the bedroom is not always the best choice if you want to avoid the pup getting up every time you toss and turn or you waking up to an unnerving bark at three in the morning when you are fast asleep.
what we need to determine is the difference between your dog’s normal barking behavior and excessive or unnecessary barking; for instance, how to stop dog barking for attention, barking at everything that moves or barking when you prepare the dog’s meal, etc.
on the other hand, if a dog learns that sometimes there is no control, the dog will start to make its own decisions, which, as we know, is not always best for the dog.
good dog obedience training takes practice so how can you expect to stop dog jumping and get your dog to obey your wishes and commands if your dog has never been taught properly and hasn’t had a chance to practice?
" ask us about how to stop dog barking sometimes you want your dog to bark imagine disciplining your dog every time it barks in order to control his  dog barking behavior and then coming face to face with a burglar who has  entered your home or your property so easily?
heeling, or walking without pulling, is part of dog obedience training, which i like to start after the pup is at least five months old.
some owner’s simply don’t want a fence.
frank d’andrea is a professional dog trainer and offers dog training programs to dog owners throughout new jersey and new york including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
if you would like more information or, for additional help with dog behavior modification, pleasecontact our professional dog trainers or call our office at845-368-0868 or email dp dog training.
the obvious and most common command is “come” and dogs quickly learn that when you have control (i.e. a collar and leash) they must submit.
thank you for taking the time to read this article on housebreaking a puppy byfrank d’andrea.
tips on how to stop dog jumping
if you don’t catch your puppy making a mistake, don’t bother scolding the dog, you didn’t catch him in time and he cannot understand cause and effect.
i've seen behaviorists, veterinarians, etc., who have incorrectly approached dog behavior modification for many of these issues.
remain proactive and give your dog a fair shake.
have a professional dog trainer evaluate your situation so that the right course of action can be taken.
in essence, dog behavior modification is really about dog obedience training, they both go hand in hand.
remember, although dog containment using an invisible fence will keep your dog on the property, it is not designed to keep other animals or people ‘off’ your property.
in essence, dog behavior modification is really about dog obedience  training, they both go hand in hand.
and then again, some properties just don’t look good with a physical fence on it.
does it bite other dogs?
dog barking can be  very annoying and the dog will use that to its own advantage.
pulling can be fixed in one lesson if the dog trainer knows how to teach the “heel” position.
in the beginning, open the crate door after a short amount of time but  never when the pup is barking.
the stimulation levels go from one to nine, with a boost button that automatically raises the shown level by two.
fortunately, the best thing about young pups is  that nipping and biting usually goes away.
think about this, if dogs are always in commands, they simply cannot do anything wrong!
when small dogs are spoiled by constantly being picked up, this can cause  small dogs to bark.
crate training older dogs can take a lot longer as old habits die hard, however crate training a puppy should be a lot easier.
dogs are den animals and in the end you want the crate to act like your  puppy’s den; a safe place, a place of refuge, therefore the crate should  never be used as a form of punishment.
try and understand the reason for your dog barking and manage that.
just realize that your puppy cannot be left unsupervised yet.
there are several simple solutions to this problem.
when the pup starts focusing on the fun distractions, pick up the end of the leash and run around with the pup letting the pup do the leading for now.
i only recommend papers for small dogs, possibly in an apartment situation where you cannot get him outside quick enough.
about professional dog trainer frank d'andrea frank d’andrea is a professional dog trainer and owner of dp dog  training servicing dog owners in new jersey and new york including rockland,  westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
dog containment should not replace dog training a fenced-in yard or property no doubt is an excellent advantage for all  dogs and dog owners if the fenced yard is used as dog containment to complement  instead of as a substitute for, quality dog training and walking time with your  dog.
when innotek dog collars are used properly, it communicates to the dog that you still have control, even from a distance.
be patient when crate train a puppy the golden rule is, when the pup cannot be supervised put it in the crate.
after the dog knows the rules, he only needs to practice them.
as americans, we spend tons of money on our pets every day; from food, treats and toys to clothes and services, like dog walking.
any time i  interview a dog owner about a particular school or private session with a  behaviorist they never mention anything about dog training!
sometimes a puppy needs to go more than once, but more importantly pups like to be outside so we don’t want the pup to associate going to the bathroom with the "come back" in (i.e. end of fun)!
some dogs will not get along with other dogs and some dogs growl  around the food bowl for instance.
the dog training philosophy held by dp dog training involves three phases; the learning phase, the correction phase and the proofing phase.
a kennel crate is a place of  confinement and dog collars may be unsafe for your pup.
we even hire people to clean the dog droppings from our yards!
these types of situations should really be observed by a professional dog trainer so that a proper game plan can possibly be worked out.
how to stop dog biting is a lot easier if your dog has had some dog obedience training, which should continually be reinforced.
how much of this would you expect goes towards dog obedience training?
when a pup turns five months leash training can include the  “heel” command however, this is best done by a professional dog  trainer.
the basics of crate training a puppy crate training a puppy is a must!
this is why the heel command is not part of the leash training just yet.
putting inedible toys in your puppy’s  crate is okay
ask us about dog behavior modification dog training is an integral part of successful dog behavior modification.
innotek electronic dog training collars have many great features: sleek looking – innotek dog collars have a sleek looking fit, much different from the bulky box like collars offered with many other dog obedience training and dog containment systems.
we cannot afford to be inconsistent when housetraining a puppy.
all pups are going to nip.
if your dog is not obedience trained, chances are you do not have a line  of communication open with your dog and simply put, your dog does not know what  you want from him.
perhaps the biggest issue many dog owners have with the electric dog fence is how to get the dog off the property for walks!
not just playing with other dogs.
we can't be negative with our dogs for everything.
“my dog jumps on everyone” is a very common statement yet can be easily addressed with the properdog obedience training.
from there you can continue walking your dog.
dog containment won’t keep other dogs out remember, although dog containment using an invisible fence will keep your  dog on the property, it is not designed to keep other animals or people  ‘off’ your property.
innotek dog collars are very versatile and serve both purposes; ‘off’ leash dog obedience training and wireless dog containment.
frank offers rehabilitation and housebreaking consultations and conducts dog training programs for dog owners throughout new jersey and new york including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
these dog owners will do anything to circumvent the bad dog behavior but only if they can keep themselves less involved.
if you want to put a dog bed in the crate, i recommend giving the pup one chance.
ask us about the innotek underground electric dog fence dog containment using an invisible fence can be as simple as; the dog containment system can also be used to box out dog-free zones like swimming pools; children play areas, landscaping, gardens etc.
keep your puppy occupied and  let it chase moving toys.
" once the puppy is outside, use a command like "go potty" then,  when the dog has finished his business, praise and reward your puppy lavishly.
in any case, you will find that being proactive through professional dog training, plus removing certain triggers will soon control even these types of situations.
for leash training a puppy at this stage, timing, the right collar correction and rewards are all crucial to successful teaching.
in most cases, bad dog behavior will get a percentage better, although in some cases it will not.
leash training puppy over 5 months old
keep your puppy occupied and let it chase moving toys.
putting inedible toys in your puppy’s crate is okay
if you choose not to use a crate, then supervision is  required all the time!
when we let our dogs out in a big fenced-in back yard and allow them to  "patrol" all day long, the dogs will soon start making their own  decisions about protecting our property (their territory).
hitting your dog, or rubbing its nose in its stool, etc., does not teach  your puppy right from wrong and is considered to be abuse!
when we let our dogs out in a big fenced-in back yard and allow them to "patrol" all day long, the dogs will soon start making their own decisions about protecting our property (their territory).
hisdog training programs include: e-collar training behavior evaluation dog ownership 101 positive puppy training basic dog obedience advanced dog obedience
these types of situations should really be observed by a professional dog  trainer so that a proper game plan can possibly be worked out.
how to stop dog jumping then (along with other dog behavior issues) is all  about helping your dog understand your commands.
the innotek ultra smart series of dog training collars has multiple uses, serving as: innotek offers excellent products and is the only company to offer this range of versatility.
housebreaking a puppy can be accomplished within two weeks if you follow the rules and dog training suggestions outlined below.
frank d’andrea, is a professional dog trainer whose dog training philosophy involves three phases of dog training; the learning phase, the correction phase and the proofing phase.
occasionally there are some real issues that certainly need dog behavior modification.
as long as you have control over your dog, and you supervise  your dog properly, it cannot bite.
get into your dog, train them, trust them, and enjoy them!
when housebreaking a puppy the idea is to teach the dog where to go, not  only where not to go.
german shepherds can be a mouthy breed as well.
you can use a neck collar for the id tags for now.
how to stop dog jumping then becomes an  issue of how to get your dog to understand your commands.
dog obedience training is a must and should start as early as twelve weeks of age but there is no need fordog behavior modification.
ask us about purchasing & installing the electric dog fence some jersey and new york municipalities will not permit fencing over a certain height.
because they know that barking will get them what they want…picked up.
a kennel crate is a place of confinement and dog collars may be unsafe for your pup.
if you catch the puppy making a mistake, firmly say "outside" and bring the pup outside, then repeat the first step few steps.
"but what if my dog breaks the sit/stay?"
dog obedience training is a must and should start as early as twelve weeks  of age but there is no need fordog behavior modification.
dog containment using an invisible fence having a fenced in back yard has many advantages to us as dog owners.
give some thought as to when your puppy starts nipping and then alter the way you play with your puppy.
in (i.e. end of fun)!
if you have a heeler or herding dog, expect the dog to  use its mouth more.
i do not like using collars when crate training a puppy and recommend removing your puppy’s collar before crating.
now, if your dog breaks the command he either needs to be clear on the  command (i.e. practice), or he needs to be corrected for breaking it.
your dog will soon understand that once you have addressed the  "threat", his job is now done and you, as the pack leader, have taken  over.
about frank d’andrea frank d’andrea is a professional dog trainer with clients throughout  new jersey and new york including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen,  morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
ask us about how to stop dog jumping the real issue for most dog owners facing problems with how to stop dog jumping is the fact that their dog has never had any proper dog obedience training.
you cannot  compromise the training period if you want your dog to reliably stay on the  property.
in learning how to stop dog biting, prevention is always  your best course of action.
it is important that dog owners understand why the dog is acting like it is.
the importance of properly training your dog using dog training collars and the electric dog fence cannot be understated.
the majority of complaints that dog owners have about bad dog behavior could easily be rectified with the proper dog obedience training.
over the life of your dog, the investment you put toward dog obedience training becomes minute when you realize the great relationship and the fun you’ll have with your dog, without any dog obedience issues.
if you want to put a dog bed in the crate, i recommend giving the pup one  chance.
i also offer single visit positive puppy training programs to build the necessary foundation for an easy time raising your pup to adulthood including: dog ownership 101 is a great lecture/ q&a for first time dog owners as well as for families that are raising a pup with kids!
innotek also offers straight dog containment systems, as well as single use collars exclusively for off-leash dog training.
when leash training a puppy at this early age we only want the pup to get used to walking with the leash on.
the dog must never cross out of the dog containment area and never discover that crossing the boundary will also stop the stimulation.
be patient when crate training a puppy; train today and train positively, for what you expect tomorrow and your puppy will be happy to run to the crate whenever you ask.
although some dogs are downright nasty (and some fearful) remember, you  cannot use force on a biting dog (if at all), without knowing why the dog is  biting.
this type of dog owner complains all the time, asking the same questions: if your dog chews, destroys everything, never listens or runs away, dog behavior modification is usually a lot easier and much more permanent with the properdog obedience training.
the steps must be followed properly and patience during the first few weeks is a must.
simulating and practicing the door routine is a must; doing these exercises in "real time" is simply not enough.
about dp dog training frank d’andrea’s method of leash training a puppy involves  three phases of hisdog training philosophy; the learning phase, the  correction phase and the proofing phase.
any positive association with the crate will expedite the puppy’s  acceptance when crate training.
crate training a puppy is a must!
the electric dog fence is a great solution for dog containment and is commonly referred to by several other names including: invisible dog fence hidden dog fence underground dog fence wireless dog containment(in reference to the invisible fence dog collar)
in any case, you will find that being proactive through professional dog  training, plus removing certain triggers will soon control even these types of  situations.
if you would like more information about franks’s dog training programs or about how to stop dog barking pleasecontact us, send an email or calldp dog training at 845-368-0868.
the electric dog fence is basically a wire buried underground that creates a field or dog containment area, that when used with the receiver on dog training collars (innotek dog collars or e-collars) warns the dog with a tone that the area’s boundary he is approaching is not permissible.
it is not a sin, and certainly recommended to put the dog on a leash (see  leash training) when you know someone is coming to the house and practice the  door routine.
here are some general guidelines for crate training a puppy: start crate training a puppy by putting the pup in and out of the crate  several times a day for different lengths of time.
the truth is…you have to spend more time with your dog and invest some of your dog care money on proper dog obedience training.
once the pup is walking with a bit more confidence you can start the  socialization process by talking him through the neighborhood.
once your dog knows what he needs to do, he will start doing it  automatically and your efforts to stop dog jumping is no longer an issue.
tell the dog to sit/stay.
play with the pup in front of the crate with the door open.
how to stop dog biting is a lot easier if your dog has had some dog  obedience training, which should continually be reinforced.
in my experience i have found that nipping can be another sign that the  pup needs to go to the bathroom.
of course there are pitfalls as well; digging, dirty lawns and the lack of (or no) training or walks for the dog.
some people prefer the do-it-yourself (diy) electric dog fence system and you can certainly try to tackle the installation yourself (the wire should be buried).
if you choose not to use a crate, then supervision is required all the time!
but the puppy toys must be ones that cannot be chewed and swallowed.
how to stop dog barking 101 first and foremost, how to stop dog barking most effectively is through dog  obedience training.
“my dog jumps on everyone” is a very common statement yet can  be easily addressed with the properdog obedience training.
if the dog has been trained it can't possibly jump on your guests from a sit/stay.
remember, proper use of any dog training equipment, whether it’s innotek dog collars or wireless dog containment systems using an invisible electric dog fence, is best taught by professional dog trainers like frank d’andrea who has experience with e-collars and electric dog fence training.
this is best achieved by keeping your dog on a long leash line during the first two weeks of training.
let the puppy stop to look, smell and hear all things in his world; this is what socialization is all about.
one wonders why they even own dogs.
if you don’t simulate the behavior you want, you will not succeed nearly as quickly.
here’s an example: your dog starts excessively barking out the window.
once the pup has come back in, regardless of whether the pup did its business or not, the puppy either needs to go back in the crate or remain under someone’s supervision.
when a dog has had too much freedom in the house and has never been told  correctly how to act when people come over, your efforts to stop dog jumping  will usually end in disappointment.
along with dog obedience training and dog behavior modification, dp dog training offers professional electric dog fence installation and training for the proper use of dog training collars.
how to stop dog biting in adult dogs is best determined by experienced  professional dog trainers/ behaviorists.
for leash training a puppy under five months of age i always recommend a  well fitted body harness rather than a neck collar.
for leash training a puppy at this stage, timing, the right collar  correction and rewards are all crucial to successful teaching.
biting and nipping  can be alleviated faster with the proper dog obedience training.
it is important that dog owners understand why the dog is acting like it  is.
be patient when crate training a puppy; train today and train positively,  for what you expect tomorrow and your puppy will be happy to run to the crate  whenever you ask.
if not, i highly recommend you arrange to have some professional dog training for your dog.
whenever a pup leaves the crate after having been crated (over night for  instance), the puppy should go directly outside with a command like  "outside.
if your dog has had the proper dog obedience  training it should and will respond readily.
dog training and dog behavior modification go hand in hand and will go a  long way in helping you to have a long happy and healthy relationship with your  dog.
low battery indicator light: the dog collars also feature a light to indicate when the unit is on, plus a ‘low battery’ indicator light…very convenient!
you can use a neck collar  for the id tags for now.
leash training a puppy should always start with little to no distractions.
the innotek dog containment system is basically an electric dog fence with a buried wire placed around the property line and used in conjunction with a special electric dog training collar, which the dog wears around his the invisible fence dog collar helps to train the dog so it learns where the property boundaries are, keeping the dog in the yard.
your dog will soon understand that once you have addressed the "threat", his job is now done and you, as the pack leader, have taken over.
if you would like more information contact us or for help with crate  training a puppy pleaseemail dp dog training or call dp dog training at 845-368-0868.
remain  proactive and give your dog a fair shake.
when trained properly with the electric dog fence most dogs wearing dog training collars only receive two to four stimulations…and that’s it, that’s all that is ever needed.
if you would like to contact us for more information about how to stop dog  biting or to learn more about our dog training courses, pleaseemail dp dog  training or call dp dog training at 845-368-0868.
my proactive dog training methods and every day situational training exercises result in civil, calm, well behaved dogs who exhibit good manners around guests.
how to stop dog biting in adult dogs is best determined by experienced professional dog trainers/ behaviorists.
there will be no need to correct your dog for jumping on your guests if  you put your dog in a sit/stay!
ask us about our dog training programs.
avoid the temptation to believe "he knows he did something  wrong."
first remove the dog training collar and then use your car to drive your dog past the dog containment area.
from brand new puppies to adult dogs, everyone is looking to modify their  dog’s behavior for common issues likehow to stop dog barking, how to stop  dog jumping and how to stop dog biting, plus growling, fighting etc.; even  behaviors that are natural to a dog!
other dp dog training programs include dog ownership 101, positive puppy training, basic dog obedience, advanced dog obedience, e-collar training, behavior evaluation & rehabilitation and housebreaking consultations.
when leash training a  puppy your pup may not want to move when the leash is on, so just let the leash  go and let the pup run around and have fun while you keep him motivated using  toys, balls, food etc.
perfect fit -the “perfect fit” feature assures that innotek dog collars will fit your dog properly.
my advice…don’t waste your money on toys, treats and quick fixes…invest in dog obedience training.
apply these same rules at night.
for more information about innotek dog collars please visitwww.innotek.net to see all the innovative products innotek offers.
here are some general guidelines for crate training a puppy: only go get the puppy from his crate if the puppy starts up in the middle of the night, he most likely has to go out.
from the loop a twisted wire is then attached and brought to the house where it is connected to the electric dog fence unit that is powered by an outlet.
if the pup starts barking, leave him be.
leash  corrections are best taught by aprofessional dog trainer.
when the pup starts focusing on the fun distractions, pick up the end of  the leash and run around with the pup letting the pup do the leading for now.
but the puppy toys must be ones that cannot be chewed and  swallowed.
the electric dog fence loop can be customized by boxing out things like swimming pools, gardens, kid's play areas and even landscaping.
give some thought as to when your puppy starts nipping and then alter the  way you play with your puppy.
a popular and growing choice for dog owners these days is dog containment using an invisible fence such as theinnotek underground electric dog fence system.
if you would like to contact us for more information about how to stop dog biting or to learn more about our dog training courses, pleaseemail dp dog training or call dp dog training at 845-368-0868.
dogs learn by trial and error and repetition (which is worth repeating),dogs learn by trial and error and repetition.
it really is that simple.
" reactive dog behavior modification methods simply don’t work.
never use the dog containment system as an excuse to leave your dog unattended for extended periods of time.
whenever a pup leaves the crate after having been crated (over night for instance), the puppy should go directly outside with a command like "outside.
remember, train today for what you want tomorrow!
if you would like to contact us for more information about how to stop dog  jumping or about franks’sdog training programs in new jersey and new york  pleaseemail dp dog training or call dp dog training at 845-368-0868.
ask us about dog behavior modification dog training is essential to dog behavior modification dog training is an integral part of successful dog behavior modification.
remember, when you leave the house you must feel comfortable knowing your puppy  cannot get into any trouble.
frank d’andrea is a professional dog trainer with clients throughout new jersey and new york including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
now, if your dog breaks the command he either needs to be clear on the command (i.e. practice), or he needs to be corrected for breaking it.
a professional dog trainer can not only teach your dog the heel command, but can help you perfect the skills and timing needed to keep your dog clear on what is being asked of him as he’s being leash trained.
basic commands for everyday situations proper dog obedience training, when carried out effectively, will teach  your dog basic, but yet very effective commands that you, the dog owner, can  put to use for everyday situations.
ask us about how to stop dog jumping proper dog obedience training is a must the real issue for most dog owners facing problems with how to stop dog  jumping is the fact that their dog has never had any proper dog obedience  training.
the range for innotek dog collars can be from three hundred yards to the field level models that work at an impressive one thousand yards.
is your dog unpredictable?
the twisted wire will allow the dog to cross without correction while wearing the dog training collar.
if your pup is being brought home for the first time, your crate should  already be in place and ready for crate training your puppy.
i offer a course on foundation building for dogs and a course on positive  puppy training; both courses are a great start, a preventative measure on how  to stop dog biting.
hisdog training programs include: e-collar training
dog obedience training can be quite effective for any and all bad dog behaviors in the house.
if your dog has had the proper dog obedience training it should and will respond readily.
this rarely works as the timing is usually off and therefore fails to teach the puppy right from wrong; instead the puppy learns to fear and resent the crate.
this is no problem for the installation phase but when it comes to training your dog, i would always recommend an experienced dog trainer that can recognize your dog’s basic character and temperament and train accordingly.
positive crate training & your puppy the first goal of crate training a puppy is to introduce the kennel crate  in a positive manner.
dog containment systems using invisible fence, underground fence, hidden  fence and such are not difficult to install and can also be installed easily by  landscapers or fence installers.
when used properly with the proper training, an electric dog fence is a great dog containment solution.
i understand that the average dog owner may not realize this, and hopefully this article will be of some value to them.
in most cases, issues like excessive barking can easily be kept under control by simply exercising your dog, putting your dog through daily training sessions and limiting your dog's freedom in the house.
this is why the heel command is not part  of the leash training just yet.
frank d’andrea – professional dog trainer frank d’andrea is a professional dog trainer and offers dog obedience  training and dog behavior modification programs to dog owners throughout new  jersey and new york including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris,  passaic, hudson and essex.
to make housebreaking a puppy ten times easier, a crate should be used (see crate training a puppy).
invest in good dog obedience training and not only will you have a better dog and companion, but you’ll rediscover the joy of why you got a dog in the first place (the “saving money in the long run” is really just an added benefit).
serious issues that require dog behavior modification occasionally there are some real issues that certainly need dog behavior  modification.
your ‘fenced in’ dog can become quite territorial if it remains unattended for long periods of time.
the best way i know how to stop dog jumping is to use the  “sit” command.
frank d’andrea is a professional dog trainer offering professional dog training programs to clients throughout new jersey and new york including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
once the pup has come back in, regardless of whether the pup did its  business or not, the puppy either needs to go back in the crate or remain under  someone’s supervision.
there are many choices on the market these days for dog containment using an invisible fence.
if you chose to use papers, then substitute the papers for outside.
some dog owners use the crate as punishment or for dog behavior modification .
it is not a sin, and certainly recommended to put the dog on a leash (see leash training) when you know someone is coming to the house and practice the door routine.
when your dog has good dog obedience training, you will find that any prior dog behavior modification issues you thought your dog once needed will now simply fall away!
in fact the one thing i suggest is to redirect your puppy’s dog biting behavior to a toy.
instead of yelling "shut up" you go to where the barking is  directed, recognize why your dog is barking and praise him for alerting the  "pack" that there is an intruder and then put the dog in a command  like sit and bring him away from the situation.
in fact the one thing i suggest is to redirect  your puppy’s dog biting behavior to a toy.
only go get the puppy from his crate if the puppy starts up in the middle  of the night, he most likely has to go out.
how to stop dog jumping then becomes an issue of how to get your dog to understand your commands.
dog barking can be very annoying and the dog will use that to its own advantage.
just realize that  your puppy cannot be left unsupervised yet.
if you would like to contact our professional dog trainers for more information or for help with leash training a puppy calldp dog training at 845-368-0868 or send us an email.
this technology is very popular as well, and when the dog is trained correctly, it will rarely leave the property.
pulling can be fixed in one lesson if the  dog trainer knows how to teach the “heel” position.
i don’t mind if a pup pulls on the leash at this stage.
heeling, or  walking without pulling, is part of dog obedience training, which i like to  start after the pup is at least five months old.
if you would like more information or, for additional help with dog  behavior modification, pleasecontact our professional dog trainers or call our  office at845-368-0868 or email dp dog training.
ask us about housebreaking a puppy when housebreaking a puppy the idea is to teach the dog where to go, not only where not to go.
how to stop dog barking is not an issue of dog behavior modification; this is a dog obedience training issue and pack issue.
the first thing a dog owner needs to distinguish when asking how to stop a  dog biting; is it puppy nipping or a nasty dog that bites!
other puppy training programs include: if you would like more information contact us or for help with crate training a puppy pleaseemail dp dog training or call dp dog training at 845-368-0868.
the dog containment system can also be used to box out dog-free zones like  swimming pools; children play areas, landscaping, gardens etc.
first and foremost, how to stop dog barking most effectively is through dog obedience training.
the only maintenance you will ever need is free practice sessions!
let’s start with how to stop dog biting (or nipping) in puppies.
visit my page on dog training programs to learn more about my dog training courses, which include:dog ownership 101 \
handheld transmitter -for off-leash training, the hand held transmitter, which can accommodate up to two dogs, is small enough for a comfortable fit in your hand or on a lanyard around your neck.
instead of investing a few dollars up front for good dog obedience training, most dog owners tend to approach dog behavior modification with quick fixes that simply don’t work.
as long as you continue to practice, and be consistent, the leash training will be long lasting.
this really is a simple understanding issue, and your job here is to stop dog jumping by helping your dog understand your commands.
in most cases,  bad dog behavior will get a percentage better, although in some cases it will  not.
the basics of housebreaking a puppy housebreaking a puppy can be accomplished within two weeks if you follow  the rules and dog training suggestions outlined below.
about frank d’andrea frank d’andrea is a professional dog trainer and offers dog training  programs  to dog owners throughout new jersey and new york including  rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
housebreaking consultations if your adult dog is biting, we will need a lot of information before determining how to stop dog biting.
for more information contact us about dog obedience training or call frank d’andrea at845-368-0868 or send us an email.
in all my years teaching dog obedience training as a means of good dog behavior modification, i’m happy to say that the dogs and their owners are still together…and having a much easier time of it.
my saying is "when in doubt, get them out!
as long as you continue to practice,  and be consistent, the leash training will be long lasting.
frank d’andrea is a professional dog trainer and offers dog obedience training and dog behavior modification programs to dog owners throughout new jersey and new york including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
a qualified dog trainer, who not only has experience in how to install an underground dog fence but is accomplished at electric dog fence training, will be able to properly train both you and your dog in use of your new underground electric dog fence system to ensure continued success.
where to place your puppy crate crate training older dogs can take a lot longer as old habits die hard,  however crate training a puppy should be a lot easier.
a popular and growing choice for dog owners these days is dog containment  using an invisible fence such as theinnotek underground electric dog fence  system.
dog containment using an invisible fence is one of the safest and most effective methods i know of.
frank offers rehabilitation and housebreaking consultations and conducts  dog training programs for dog owners throughout new jersey and new york  including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson and  essex.
there are times when your dog should bark and times where you will want to  know how to stop dog barking.
progressive leash training strategies leash training a puppy should always start with little to no distractions.
the electric fence dog training is crucial!
if the pup chews the dog bed, out it comes.
here are a few other suggestions to consider in how to stop dog biting if your pup will not stop nipping you or the kids; i offer a course on foundation building for dogs and a course on positive puppy training; both courses are a great start, a preventative measure on how to stop dog biting.
after the dog starts to get used to his safe area and cannot be enticed beyond the dog containment boundary the flags can start coming down slowly until they are all down.
some people prefer the do-it-yourself (diy) electric dog  fence system and you can certainly try to tackle the installation yourself (the  wire should be buried).
then once your leash handling technique is good, and the dog is clear on the  command, you can start taking your dog to more distracting places like the  park, crowded streets, the kids soccer games, etc.
frank d’andrea is a professional dog trainer offering professional  dog training programs to clients throughout new jersey and new york including  rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
some of my clients from my basic dog obedience training course want to move forward with their dog training and perhaps the most popular request is for ‘off’ leash dog obedience training.
if you would like more information about franks’s dog training  programs or about how to stop dog barking pleasecontact us, send an email or  calldp dog training at 845-368-0868.
when leash training a puppy at this early age we only want the pup to get  used to walking with the leash on.
owner frank d’andrea offers dog training programs such as dog ownership 101, positive puppy training, basic dog obedience, advanced dog obedience, e-collar training, behavior evaluation & rehabilitation and housebreaking consultations.
frank d’andrea is a professional dog trainer and owner of dp dog training servicing dog owners in new jersey and new york including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
instead of yelling "shut up" you go to where the barking is directed, recognize why your dog is barking and praise him for alerting the "pack" that there is an intruder and then put the dog in a command like sit and bring him away from the situation.
you risk having your dog get into fights or worse, they may get stolen.
the dog must learn that retreating to the safe areas is the only way to stop stimulation from the dog training collar.
barking is just one of the ways dogs communicate so the first question i have when people ask me how to stop dog barking is,"why is the dog barking?" ask us about how to stop dog barking imagine disciplining your dog every time it barks in order to control his dog barking behavior and then coming face to face with a burglar who has entered your home or your property so easily?
depending on your dog’s age and past history, your puppy should be able to adapt to a crate easily and will soon learn that his kennel crate is simply a part of life.
how to stop dog jumping then (along with other dog behavior issues) is all about helping your dog understand your commands.
for dog owners with dog containment issues i offer in ground ‘invisible’ fencing (featuringinnotek dog training collars) so you can maintain your dog’s freedom without installing a physical fence.
here's a great example of positive dog behavior modification through correct dog training; as a host you don't want your dog to jump on your guests so you want to somehow modify your dog's behavior.
underground electric dog fences dog containment may become an issue for some home owners who either cannot  put up a physical fence due to the municipalities of their towns, or the dog  owner feels a fence would ruin the look of their home and neighborhood.
does your dog bite people?
dog obedience  training can be quite effective for any and all bad dog behaviors in the house.
i am also a big fan of  feeding my pups in the crate however i do not leave water or uneaten food in  the crate.
remember dogs are pack animals and consider you the leader of the pack, so they will listen to you if trained to do so properly.
you risk having your dog get into  fights or worse, they may get stolen.
when using aggression to battle aggression you are really just playing  with fire!
eliminate certain things, train the dog and keep them well exercised and you  will find your dog will behave in a much better way.
first and foremost, if you are going to correct or modify any bad behaviors in a dog you must have the two most important things you need: investing in professional dog training is highly recommended and not only teaches dog behavior modification but also teaches you how to apply the training to everyday situations (like the front door or food bowl).
understanding when and why your dog barks can help you in dealing with how to stop dog barking.
the first thing a dog owner needs to distinguish when asking how to stop a dog biting; is it puppy nipping or a nasty dog that bites!
once a dog learns that barking will get them what they want, they will continue to bark.
dp dog training services clients throughout new jersey and new york including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
you must keep your dog out of trouble.
frank d’andrea’s dp dog training is a professional dog training service servicing dog owners throughout new jersey and new york including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
housebreaking a puppy using papers
remember, train today for what  you want tomorrow!
what we need to determine is the difference between your dog’s  normal barking behavior and excessive or unnecessary barking; for instance, how  to stop dog barking for attention, barking at everything that moves or barking  when you prepare the dog’s meal, etc.
visit my page on dog training programs to learn more about my dog training  courses, which include: dog ownership 101 \ housebreaking consultations basic dog obedience advanced dog obedience e-collar training behavior  evaluation & rehabilitation positive puppy training how to stop dog biting in grown dogs if your adult dog is biting, we will need a lot of information before  determining how to stop dog biting.
have a professional dog trainer evaluate your situation so that the right  course of action can be taken.
tone feature - innotek dog collars also have a tone feature offering another great option for conditioning your dog without the stimulation.
frank’s dp dog training programs incorporate the three phases of our  dog training philosophy; the learning phase, the correction phase and the  proofing phase and includes: dog ownership 101 housebreaking consultations basic dog obedience advanced dog obedience e-collar training behavior  evaluation & rehabilitation positive puppy training
either way, the right path to how to stop dog jumping and foster good dog  behavior is through dog obedience training; by simulating “real  life” situations, and then applying them to the real thing.
because they know that barking will get them what they  want…picked up.
once the pup is walking with a bit more confidence you can start the socialization process by talking him through the neighborhood.
does your dog bite anything within sight?
fortunately, the best thing about young pups is that nipping and biting usually goes away.
never use the dog containment system as an excuse to leave your dog  unattended for extended periods of time.
to learn more about our dp dog training services for new jersey & new york dog ownerscontact us or to speak with professional dog trainerfrank d’andrea about the electric dog fence, please call845-368-0868 or send us an email.
crate training provides your puppy with a safe place to den and sleep, helps with housebreaking, keeps your puppy out of trouble, reduces separation anxiety, plus has many more benefits for both you and your puppy.
with proper dog  training, this is as easy as it comes.
your ‘fenced in’ dog can  become quite territorial if it remains unattended for long periods of time.
in learning how to stop dog biting, prevention is always your best course of action.
from brand new puppies to adult dogs, everyone is looking to modify their dog’s behavior for common issues likehow to stop dog barking, how to stop dog jumping and how to stop dog biting, plus growling, fighting etc.; even behaviors that are natural to a dog!
even though the underground electric dog fence is “invisible”, it should be treated as if it were a real physical fence.
remember, this electric dog fence will not keep other dogs or animals off the property.
some dogs are very reactive (this can be genetic) always reacting to the mailman, the kids in the neighborhood and so on.
a fenced-in yard or property no doubt is an excellent advantage for all dogs and dog owners if the fenced yard is used as dog containment to complement instead of as a substitute for, quality dog training and walking time with your dog.
dog training & behavior modification
all dogs should earn their existence with you and should be able to execute a simple “sit”, or “down” before you give him anything; and that includes food, toys, treats, freedom etc.
dogs are naturally reluctant to soil where they sleep so crate training a  puppy early can also help withhousebreaking your puppy.
remember, we teach dogs how  to behave in a situation, not how not to behave so let’s be proactive,  not reactive.
a fenced-in yard can be a real problem for dog barking behavior if you never spend time with your dog.
remember, when you leave the house you must feel comfortable knowing your puppy cannot get into any trouble.
for example; you are walking your dog on the street  and someone wants to pet him and your first thought is how to stop the dog from  jumping.
installing an invisible dog fence there are many choices on the market these days for dog containment using  an invisible fence.
we must help our dogs succeed by putting them on a solid feeding schedule and exercise schedule plus, making sure that puppies are not in their crates too long.
simulating and practicing the door routine is a must; doing these  exercises in "real time" is simply not enough.
proper dog obedience training, when carried out effectively, will teach your dog basic, but yet very effective commands that you, the dog owner, can put to use for everyday situations.
the leash training technique you learn with the heel command will be universal to alldog obedience training.
unattended dogs also tend to quickly  develop bad habits and poor decision making.
besides, why go into conflict with your pup if you don’t have to.
remember - don’t rescue your puppy if he starts barking from the start as that will only reinforce his barking behavior.
this article on crate training a puppy is by frank d’andrea, a professional dog trainer offeringdog training programs in new jersey and new york including rockland, westchester, orange, bergen, morris, passaic, hudson and essex.
when a pup turns five months leash training can include the “heel” command however, this is best done by a professional dog trainer.
once the dog is clear on a command, there is no choice, they must obey.
spread the paper area around; make the target big enough for the dog to hit easier.
inconstancies will only muddle the pup’s understanding of what we want  and make the housebreaking process much longer than it needs to be.
any positive association with the crate will expedite the puppy’s acceptance when crate training.
other causes of dog barking some dogs are very reactive (this can be genetic) always reacting to the  mailman, the kids in the neighborhood and so on.
a fenced-in yard can  be a real problem for dog barking behavior if you never spend time with your  dog.
dogs do not have hands so they tend to be mouthy and some breeds are a lot  mouthier than others.
when using aggression to battle aggression you are really just playing with fire!
when the rules are clear and followed through you will find that your dog is much easier to live with.
you cannot compromise the training period if you want your dog to reliably stay on the property.
rechargeable batteries – the batteries on innotek dog collars are rechargeable, which is a huge advantage over buying batteries for the life of your dog!
most dogs remain like this  because they are not trained!
if your dog growls when you try to take a rawhide or bone away, then no  more rawhide or bones.
dp dog training programs include dog ownership 101, positive puppy training, basic dog obedience, advanced dog obedience, e-collar training, behavior evaluation & rehabilitation and housebreaking consultations.
dogs are den animals and in the end you want the crate to act like your puppy’s den; a safe place, a place of refuge, therefore the crate should never be used as a form of punishment.
my saying  is "when in doubt, get them out!
tips on how to stop dog biting you must keep your dog out of trouble.
depending on your dog’s age and past history, your puppy should be  able to adapt to a crate easily and will soon learn that his kennel crate is  simply a part of life.
ask us about leash training a puppy for leash training a puppy under five months of age i always recommend a well fitted body harness rather than a neck collar.
remember, every experience in a young pup’s life needs to be positive; people, places, things, etc.
if you are nervous about using an electric dog fence, remember one thing - stimulation with dog training collars is quick and temporary whereas a lost or killed dog is permanent!
ask us about innotek dog training collars innotek dog collars are electronic dog training collars that work quite well.
positive dog behavior modification
here's a great example of positive dog behavior modification through  correct dog training; as a host you don't want your dog to jump on your  guests so you want to somehow modify your dog's behavior.
nylabones® and kong’s® chew toys are nice choices.
the dog crate should be located in a place in the home where you spend most of your time.
there are times when your dog should bark and times where you will want to know how to stop dog barking.
well, as long as you tell me the dog is clear with that command, he should be corrected for breaking your command; and this will be clear to the dog why he got a correction.
if you follow these simple rules and suggestions for crate training a puppy it should take no more than few days for your puppy to accept its new crate.
if you have a heeler or herding dog, expect the dog to use its mouth more.
this rarely works as the timing is usually off and therefore fails to teach  the puppy right from wrong; instead the puppy learns to fear and resent the  crate.
he only knows your body language shows anger.
you can toss treats into the crate but not too much.
keep the pup outside for a little while.
my professional dog training services include dog obedience training in new york and dog obedience training in new jersey.
a professional dog trainer can not only teach your dog the heel command,  but can help you perfect the skills and timing needed to keep your dog clear on  what is being asked of him as he’s being leash trained.
(seedog behavior modification)
unattended dogs also tend to quickly develop bad habits and poor decision making.
inconstancies will only muddle the pup’s understanding of what we want and make the housebreaking process much longer than it needs to be.
you must have control and respect from your dog; otherwise  you cannot effectively manage your dog barking behavior issues.
dogs learn by trial and  error and repetition (which is worth repeating),dogs learn by trial and  error and repetition.
there will be no need to correct your dog for jumping on your guests if you put your dog in a sit/stay!
when leash training a puppy your pup may not want to move when the leash is on, so just let the leash go and let the pup run around and have fun while you keep him motivated using toys, balls, food etc.
if you follow these simple rules and suggestions for crate training a  puppy it should take no more than few days for your puppy to accept its new  crate.
ask us about leash training a puppy leash training puppy under 5 months old
dogs do not have hands so they tend to be mouthy and some breeds are a lot mouthier than others.
e-collar training with innotek dog collars is one of the most effective ways i know to ‘off’ leash train your dog.
another solution (after removing the dog training collar) is to use traffic cones to create a “door” and couple this with a command like “with me” so that the dog understands he can leave the dog containment area only through this door…and only when accompanied by you.
the pet industry in this country continues to grow by millions of dollars every year.
the golden rule is, when the pup cannot be supervised put it in the crate.
the leash training technique you learn with the heel command will be  universal to alldog obedience training.
a qualified dog trainer, who not only has experience in how to install an  underground dog fence but is accomplished at electric dog fence training, will  be able to properly train both you and your dog in use of your new underground  electric dog fence system to ensure continued success.
if you  catch the puppy making a mistake, firmly say "outside" and bring the  pup outside, then repeat the first step few steps.
remember, every experience in a young pup’s life needs to be  positive; people, places, things, etc.
the dog will soon comprehend that when the cones are removed, the door is “closed” and he cannot leave the dog containment area.
in the long run, it will save you literally hundreds of dollars and a lot of aggravation over the coming years.
dp dog training services dog owners in new york and new jersey areas and more and more we see dog owners opting for the electric dog fence instead of erecting a physical fence fordog containment.
if not, i highly recommend you arrange to have some professional dog  training for your dog.
management is always the first course of action.
some dogs will not get along with other dogs and some dogs growl around the food bowl for instance.
i understand that the average dog owner may not realize this, and  hopefully this article will be of some value to them.
billions are spent on dog care each year for the (estimated) 60 million dogs in this county, yet less than one percent of these dogs get any formal dog obedience training!
the biggest advantage is dog containment without tethers for the dog.
let the puppy  stop to look, smell and hear all things in his world; this is what  socialization is all about.
if you would like more information about innotek dog containment using an invisible fence or about any of franks’s dog training programs, please contact us or call dp dog training at 845-368-0868 or send us anemail.
just behind the “dog pulling on the leash” complaint, the  second most populardog behavior modification request i get from potential  clients is how to stop dog jumping.
what if a bear wanders onto your property and you walk right out in front of it…because your dog has been disciplined not to bark?
when small dogs are spoiled by constantly being picked up, this can cause small dogs to bark.
first and foremost, if you are going to correct or modify any bad  behaviors in a dog you must have the two most important things you need: control of your dog respect from your dog investing in professional dog training is highly recommended and not only  teaches dog behavior modification but also teaches you how to apply the  training to everyday situations (like the front door or food bowl).
hang out outside and monitor your puppy in the crate.
i've seen behaviorists, veterinarians, etc., who have incorrectly  approached dog behavior modification for many of these issues.
at some point you will need to close the crate door with your puppy inside
you might think about a second crate especially if your home has more than  one level.
i am also a big fan of feeding my pups in the crate however i do not leave water or uneaten food in the crate.
you must have control and respect from your dog; otherwise you cannot effectively manage your dog barking behavior issues.
i receive many calls and emails from dog owners who want some form of dog behavior modification.
innotek, quicker training, better dogs!
once your dog knows what he needs to do, he will start doing it automatically and your efforts to stop dog jumping is no longer an issue.
tips on how to stop dog barking understanding when and why your dog barks can help you in dealing with how  to stop dog barking.