if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
you want to love and cherish her  again.
we must understand  these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work  effectively with fathers and families.
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
you haven't had a real conversation  for weeks.
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
read more... help your child cope with divorce many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile environment of the vagina.
try the pinky if you're not sure what's causing the problem, wash your  hands then whip out your littlest finger and offer it to your baby to suck on.
our best solution for this natural by-product of  humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your  friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
read  more... making the most of visits with the kids many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an  often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with  their children.
in  it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on  when you don’t know what to do next.
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily through the activities and time spent with your children.
hand the baby to your partner feel your baby's pain putting on your baby's favourite reggae cd will  not stop her being hungry, nor will a teething baby stop crying when you change  her nappy.
to help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
there are many times i just don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get from my girls.
between the  warmth of your body, the rhythmic beating of your heart, the rise and fall of  your breathing, and the gentle swaying motion as you walk, at least one of you  should be asleep in minutes.
a father is the first man his daughter knows.
will you love your baby?
william klatte has written an insightful book calledlive-away dads.
but during those bleary early weeks,  when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out  where to start.
a small percentage of men have a blockage in their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate fluid.
eric calls this the "dual-purpose swing," as it  worked both as a baby sedative and a form of exercise.
ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
these days, for urban dads it's  more unusual if he isn't there.
can men get the baby blues?
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy  development of their children and that positive father involvement has a  beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
read more... five commandments for today's family man two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the  proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
~mark twain father! - to god himself we cannot give a holier name.
read more by now you should have noticed changes in your fitness and strength as well as in your body.
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly  stand to have the old man around.
as  we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than  to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
it takes  special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
here's how it's done: feel your baby's pain putting on your baby's favourite reggae cd will not stop her being hungry, nor will a teething baby stop crying when you change her nappy.
pending fatherhood can make you think about your family's roots.
managing your anger ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
if so, consider strengthening 'i love  you' with the following suggestions.
the key is to insert your finger upside down, so that you don't scratch the roof of your baby's mouth with your fingernail.
lee, another babycentre dad, could quiet his first son, andrew, by singing patsy cline's "crazy," a beautiful albeit depressing song that doesn't teach a baby much about positive relationships.
after all, we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
it can cause an exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
so the short answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of the expectant mother.
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say, "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?"read more...
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as  all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new  coping skills and improve how your family works together.
sometimes the poorest man leaves his children the richest inheritance.
it is generally accepted that children learn both good  and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
for many couples, being together is what feels right.
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way  to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
open communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
about  half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including  chromosomal problems.
so here are a few tips to help you make it through those (short) nights.
"our detachable car seat doubled as a baby carrier," says eric jones, father of one.
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
this page contains resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
there are strong physical and emotional  impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
are you  worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?
set aside time for yourself.
read more... dads hold up half the sky fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters  a lot for kids!
read more... face your fear.
between the warmth of your body, the rhythmic beating of your heart, the rise and fall of your breathing, and the gentle swaying motion as you walk, at least one of you should be asleep in minutes.
i'm in control so you are safe.
wait it out mums may view this as a decidedly detached and therefore  "male" approach, butsometimes, babies are just going to cry —  and sometimes what they want is for you to listen.
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other  would be useless.
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use  violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
after another process called capacitation (an explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization and conception.
but it is certainly much harder, and  it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children  that he needs to.
at least one-third of all children will be part of a stepfamily before they reach age 18.
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the  new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
we can work this out.
they can guide you  where to go.
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study,  published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t  “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a  life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
it can cause an  exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in  turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child development as motherhood!
read more... a good laugh helps break the tension.
read more... individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is also very individual.
we must understand these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work effectively with fathers and families.
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new coping skills and improve how your family works together.
and, when you consider the benefits, why not?
she's not made of porcelain!
fortunately, most blended families are able to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
once the initial  settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
our best solution for this natural by-product of humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
eric calls this the "dual-purpose swing," as it worked both as a baby sedative and a form of exercise.
and yet dads often feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge getting there.
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use  abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do  it
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever  realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!
as a  dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may  open a floodgate of dreams.
next time you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their granparents.
family therapy can help your family weather  such storms.
open  communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and  patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
read more... infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief, fear, guilt, shame.
it doesn't really matter what you chant, as long as it's repetitive and matches the beat of your dance.
hand the baby to your partner at times, you may want to fall back on the oldest standby of all:tell her you tried!
these hurdles may seem silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
but it is certainly much harder, and it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children that he needs to.
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best  to help dads bond with their babies.
these hurdles may seem silly,  unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
listen to her - and then listen some more girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
dig where you stand - kids family history activity kids love talking!
there is growing evidence  that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that  positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
about 200  million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
be it gardening together,  singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the  ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help  them to develop into happy healthy children.
but they are not silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to fathers.
read more... illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
and even through attempts at reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word go:read more...
should you stay together for the sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your kids?
read more... is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married to the mother of his child?
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was  astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying  around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
when an  affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed  — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
they let their  daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the  norm.
repeat until boredom (baby's) sets in.
as a dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may open a floodgate of dreams.
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation: read more...
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may threaten to tear your family apart.
your family can be your greatest source of  support, comfort and love.
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
(scienceofmom.com) a first look at your newborn after delivery (enfamil.com) being dad dads and breastfeeding breast is best!!!
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
counselling is a major  factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv  testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
read more... sometimes the poorest man leaves his children the richest inheritance.
read more... when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
horrific contorted faces.
in most men, 15 to 45 million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only 400 survive after a man ejaculates.
miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
things you definitely don’t want to expose your children to.
two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
tap the floor with your foot and try chanting.
the birth - tips for dads
girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
in fact, it may be a major  barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
mark browne recommends any song by ray charles, as he contends it's the swaying  motion, not the song itself, which will soothe.
sex and the new dad how long until we ...?
the professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with someone besides your partner?
then let her cry, at least for as long as you can stand it.
you can also find other dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
situations of family and relationship violence impact  couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
men are even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses, partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do it
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for the sake of the kids.
parental smoking is a significant issue.
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children from adult conflicts.
in other words,first find the real reason your baby is crying.
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation:read more...
will labour go smoothly?
your family can be your greatest source of support, comfort and love.
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than what anyone else tells her!read more...
"when my daughter started to cry, i would lean against a chair or wall and swing the infant seat back and forth."
read  more... disciplining for dads one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate  discipline for their children.
and yet dads often  feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge  getting there.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
then discuss it  with your child or children.
read on for some advice and reassurance that  there is a sex life after baby!
family therapy can help your family weather such storms.
staying together for the sake of the kids which is better for your kids?
i have watched this  closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been  separated and preparing for divorce.
that's one of the reasons we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but the rewards are great.
if work takes you away from  your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and  her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
cut a rug we could suggest tossing your baby in the air and catching her, but though your child will love it, your partner probably won't.
then discuss it with your child or children.
many dads i meet  share this mistaken idea: read more... five worries about fathering our daughters
finally, there is a positive outlet for the physical gags you've practiced since childhood.
then, dance gently — rocking slowly back and forth — with a  spin or two thrown in for good measure.
try babycentre dad mark browne's trick: this father of two has  turned cries into stares and giggles by putting something on his head, letting  it fall off, and shouting, "oh no, they fell again!".
there are times when too much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too hard.
"i eventually stopped using this method when i noticedmy right arm muscles were more developed than the left," he says.
do you want those words to have real meaning to your child?
whether or not your children say it or show it, you can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around it.
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts and heal wounds.
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they  can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you  believe society expects of a male parent.
discipline is all about modifying  behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
myths surrounding children and divorce
married fathers is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married  to the mother of his child?
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to  soothe your screaming newborn!!!
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and  grief.
situations of family and relationship violence impact couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
two decades ago it was unusual for a father to be there when his child was born.
that’s exceedingly rare.
whether it's you, your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
dads don't get a lot of credit for  being soothing, nurturing types.
bonding with the new baby
do you want to use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your heartfelt affection for your children?
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other would be useless.
read more... fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters a lot for kids!
that’s a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
read more we have an explicit commitment to gender equity and the un convention on the rights of the child (crc).
children's ways of love individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is  also very individual.
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and  especially fathers.
that belief is of little use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are similar...
there are many times i just  don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in  the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working  away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get  from my girls.
e. renkel it is much easier to become a father than to be one. ~kent
that’s  a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
you haven't had a real conversation for weeks.
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest  wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say,  "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?" read more... single, separated and divorced fathers
the various sections on this page should give you some basic reassurance!read more... stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm now than ever.
read more... manage your portion sizes and take the following tips into consideration.
the  professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence  suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is  as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.”
this page contains  resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
family therapy can help families  identify and resolve problems.
read more... it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open  but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often  from their dad.
and most of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
things you definitely don’t want to  expose your children to.
whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
dads love to have fun with  their kids, at least the great ones do.
read more... 10 dad-tested ways to soothe a crying baby waaaaah!!!
try offering your baby a warm  bottle of expressed breast milk or formula.
if your baby's not in pain,  she's not hungry, tired, or wet, and she doesn't want to be held or rocked,
ever felt that your anger was getting  the best of you?
after another process called capacitation (an  explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough  outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization  and conception.
i had phoned my  wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
infection, injury,  congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly stand to have the old man around.
family therapy can help families identify and resolve problems.
children in blended families may at first resist the many changes they face.
you can also find other  dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
are you concerned that your  behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only  the father smoked read more...
do you recognise yourself in any of that?
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the  liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
read more... men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often from their dad.
if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in denial or not paying attention!
non-violent relationships: a role for fathers good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they  lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their  children.
lee, another babycentre dad, could quiet his first son,  andrew, by singing patsy cline's "crazy," a beautiful albeit  depressing song that doesn't teach a baby much about positive relationships.
a small percentage of men have a blockage in  their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate  fluid.
daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
the registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
will i ever sleep again?
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no  heart-to-hearts.
then, dance gently — rocking slowly back and forth — with a spin or two thrown in for good measure.
it doesn't really matter what you chant, as long as it's  repetitive and matches the beat of your dance.
many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
remember that as difficult as it may be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial  elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your  marriage.
this could be a much better alternative to the “handing-baby-back-to-partner” technique.
fortunately, most blended families are able  to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
hold your baby up to your shoulder and wrap his arms around your  neck.
play is "the work of children".
be it gardening together, singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help them to develop into happy healthy children.
this could be a much better alternative to the  “handing-baby-back-to-partner” technique.
this could mean that you're worried that pregnancy will damage your sex life.
in a study of smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking mother).
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be  thinking, feeling and needing from you.
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of  the date of birth.
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your  shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
read more... prevention of hiv transmission to infants many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child  treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
activities for dads and kids playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
fathers and smoking parental smoking is a significant issue.
"when my daughter  started to cry, i would lean against a chair or wall and swing the infant seat  back and forth."
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
yet, no parental  action has a greater impact on children.
you'd be odd if you weren't afraid.
read more... many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with their children.
children love their parents and want  to be with them.
this may take some time.
all children deserve a chance to grow up unafraid.
dealing with anger - your own and your child's divorce can bring out the worst in people.
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
however, when you are  away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
try the pinky if you're not sure what's causing the problem, wash your hands then whip out your littlest finger and offer it to your baby to suck on.
the effects of divorce on children and how to cope
do you want those words to have real meaning to  your child?
read more... not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do pass through the same stages.
fathers play a critical  role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from  abuse and neglect.
real dads play dolls is playing with dolls manly?
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in  harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
men are  even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses,  partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
about half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including chromosomal problems.
can men get something like the baby blues as well as women?
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
in a study of  smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months  old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking  mother).
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and life changing task.
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts  and heal wounds.
in the  twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard  many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
read more... is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a new single dad with children at home?
children love their parents and want to be with them.
can men get  something like the baby blues as well as women?
read more... one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate discipline for their children.
over the years  my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has  developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different  families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and  beliefs.
over the years my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and beliefs.
dads love to have fun with their kids, at least the great ones do.
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting in an early miscarriage.
the screaming and crying will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved rest.
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children  who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for  the sake of the kids.
for many couples, being together is what feels  right.
read more... how to adjust to life as a single father is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a  new single dad with children at home?
read on for some advice and reassurance that there is a sex life after baby!read more... be there for her!
it takes special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
is he a labor coach,  advocate or partner?
or maybe you've been dreaming about your  grandparents?
read more... waaaaah!!!
marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your  children.
instead of backing the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
sit and read a book for 10 minutes.
if work takes you away from your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
the list of potential adjustments is long, and  it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
read more... how to be more involved with your baby
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first, that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a poster.
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing,  cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
read more... healing family conflicts families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems  that create conflict and stress.
read more... tell your kids you love them!
what dads-to-be dream about could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
it's you she wants in the delivery room be there for her!
we support the importance of mothering and mothers’ rights to children, and we highlight the importance of parents working co-operatively for the interests of children.
wear your baby place the baby in a front-loading sling - your partner  can show you how to do it and help you the first couple of times.
so the short  answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of  the expectant mother.
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you believe society expects of a male parent.
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their children.
the adjustments for dad, mum and kids are major.
children's expectations of you and your ex marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter  is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
read more... 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner she is scared of me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen again - but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose it...'
daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are  similar...
there have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on children.
dads don't get a lot of credit for being soothing, nurturing types.
that's one of the reasons  we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
so you  could try this little move, submitted by veteran dad james rothson, as an  alternative.
below is a list of some behaviors that  children should be protected from.
read more... do you use domestic violence?
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first,  that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed  in this article.
if so, consider strengthening 'i love you' with the following suggestions.
if you are like almost every other new father you are not alone!
rock and swing babies love movement - and what better way to swing  around than in daddy’s strong arms?
read more... blended families stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm  now than ever.
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but  the rewards are great.
instead of backing  the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the  effects ofdivorce on children.
read more... stepfathering stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a  situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
with time, you and your baby will develop your own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply  involves creating a new branch.
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear, you're only normal.
try offering your baby a warm bottle of expressed breast milk or formula.
will your baby be born with ten fingers and ten toes?
spontaneous belly flops onto the nearest hard surface.
for example, one daughter may receive love best when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her something.
what's that?read more...
i have watched this closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been separated and preparing for divorce.
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
before the baby is born, you may find  that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that  they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
yes, fathers are vulnerable to  similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can  become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.
facts about men's fertility men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
the various sections on this page  should give you some basic reassurance!
wordsworth read more... 5 myths of fatherhood
so, given  the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions  for tackling this important task successfully.
counselling is a major factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
read more... how your child's behaviour changes as they grow not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do  pass through the same stages.
with time, you and your baby will develop your  own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
fathers play a critical role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from abuse and neglect.
and they love grandparents.
find ways to keep anger under  control as you work with your children.
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word  go: read more... do you have to be at your baby's birth?
related articles ways to soothe your crying baby (enfamil.com) a crying primer (enfamil.com) a screaming baby is a breathing baby (macthedbear.wordpress.com)
understanding something about those stages can help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually just a part of growing up.
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
so you could try this little move, submitted by veteran dad james rothson, as an alternative.
read more... how long until we ...?
yes,  this seems almost too logical, but when the crying train gets going, logic is  usually left at the station.
read more... relationships with children are much like plants, they need constant nourishing!
yes, this seems almost too logical, but when the crying train gets going, logic is usually left at the station.
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
read more... children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during and after divorce.
i really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day left me feeling empty.
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply involves creating a new branch.
here's how it's done: read more...
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!
dad's at a distance - working away relationships with children are much like plants, they need  constant nourishing!
divorce: your child's perspective children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during  and after divorce.
but, it may be a while.
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to soothe your screaming newborn!!!
read more... as your child grows older she will want different things from her engagement with you.
as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be  controlled.
yet, no parental action has a greater impact on children.
"our detachable car seat doubled  as a baby carrier," says eric jones, father of one.
but they are not silly, unnecessary,  or insignificant to fathers.
read more... which is better for your kids?
the list of potential adjustments is long, and it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
but if you ask most dads, you'll find  that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own  special ways to soothe their babies.
it seems some parents can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for their children.
if there is, i can't  imagine it.
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children and themselves.
read more... every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his daughter’s life!
but not everyone feels the same.
below is a list of some behaviors that children should be protected from.
gradually lower your voice as  your baby begins to quiet.
the key is to insert your  finger upside down, so that you don't scratch the roof of your baby's mouth  with your fingernail.
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a  poster.
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and especially fathers.
or maybe you've been dreaming about your grandparents?
remember that as difficult as it may  be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of  their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
in some measures, father-love is more important.
as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be  involved in your child's life.
rock and swing babies love movement - and what better way to swing around than in daddy’s strong arms?
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship  with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
hand the baby to your partner at times, you may want to fall back on  the oldest standby of all:tell her you tried!
that belief is of little  use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
read more... activities with infants as your child grows older she will want different things from her  engagement with you.
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death  or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro  long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and  life changing task.
it seems some parents  can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for  their children.
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and grief.
common fertility problems for men blockages.
men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
it's my child - and i'm proud to be his dad!!!
in the twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
here's how it's done:read more...
about 200 million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
understand how a marriage can be rebuilt after an affair.
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of  the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile  environment of the vagina.
you'd  be odd if you weren't afraid.
so here are a few tips to help you make it  through those (short) nights.
will you be a good dad?
infidelity: mending your marriage after an affair infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief,  fear, guilt, shame.
they let their daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the norm.
but during those bleary early weeks, when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out where to start.
in most men, 15 to 45  million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only  400 survive after a man ejaculates.
discipline is all about modifying behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be involved in your child's life.
what is the role of  the father who is present at the birth of his child?
of course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
there are strong physical and emotional impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child  development as motherhood!
she studied a group of 131 children and  their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25  years.
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study, published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
wordsworthread more...
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set  the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than  what anyone else tells her!
cut a rug we could suggest tossing your baby in the air and catching  her, but though your child will love it, your partner probably won't.
however, when you are away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
for the baby, we mean!
creative stories are a chance to build  a great and loving memory.
you want to love and cherish her again.
yes, fathers are vulnerable to similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.
fine-tune embarrassing personal stunts bodily function noises.
rock and sing for many, this could easily fit under "embarrassing personal stunts."
as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
the homeopathic babe - letting them cry it out (pipermartin.wordpress.com) the importance of self-soothing to infant sleep (and how to support it!)
these days, for urban dads it's more unusual if he isn't there.
will your baby be born with ten  fingers and ten toes?
of  course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
she studied a group of 131 children and their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25 years.
when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a  challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
children in blended families may at first  resist the many changes they face.
quick discipline strategies a good laugh helps break the tension.
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of  domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
do you want to  use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your  heartfelt affection for your children?
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self  control--we can't lose ours in the process.
wear your baby place the baby in a front-loading sling - your partner can show you how to do it and help you the first couple of times.
the screaming and crying  will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved  rest.
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means  much more than the textbook definition.
they can guide you where to go.
try babycentre dad mark browne's trick: this father of two has turned cries into stares and giggles by putting something on his head, letting it fall off, and shouting, "oh no, they fell again!".
whether or not your children say it or show it, you  can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around  it.
if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in  denial or not paying attention!
mark browne recommends any song by ray charles, as he contends it's the swaying motion, not the song itself, which will soothe.
do you want them to connect one heart to another?
tap the floor with your foot and  try chanting.
read more... dealing with miscarriage miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
"i eventually  stopped using this method when i noticedmy right arm muscles were more  developed than the left," he says.
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your children.
if there is, i can't imagine it.
like any mystery, the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining, baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at once...
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!read more...
are you concerned that your behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope  with the divorce of their parents.
and even through attempts at  reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
whether it's you,  your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family  therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
it is generally accepted that children learn both good and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
is he a labor coach, advocate or partner?
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to  the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that  dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children  and themselves.
read more... i have been violent or abusive and i need help 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner she is scared of  me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen  again - but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose  it...'
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with  someone besides your partner?
raising your daughter every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his  daughter’s life!
wait it out mums may view this as a decidedly detached and therefore "male" approach, butsometimes, babies are just going to cry — and sometimes what they want is for you to listen.
before the baby is born, you may find that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
this could mean that you're worried that  pregnancy will damage your sex life.
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or  excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed in this article.
when an affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting  in an early miscarriage.
once the initial settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
repeat until  boredom (baby's) sets in.
understanding something about those stages can  help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually  just a part of growing up.
next time  you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their  granparents.
registering baby's birth
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be thinking, feeling and needing from you.
after all,  we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in  the process.
i had phoned my wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
infection, injury, congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
lack of sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers and mothers...
two decades ago it was unusual for a  father to be there when his child was born.
hold your baby up to your shoulder and wrap his arms around your neck.
creative stories are a chance to build a great and loving memory.
however, respect your baby's  taste, too: mark was "met with little success" when imitating  pavarotti while singing "hush little baby."
there  have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on  children.
there are times when too  much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too
gradually lower your voice as your baby begins to quiet.
try to agree with your ex the following.
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily  through the activities and time spent with your children.
draw the curtains if you feel that nosey neighbours might be cramping your style.
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear,  you're only normal.
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your marriage.
what is the role of the father who is present at the birth of his child?
in fact, it may be a major barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only the father smokedread more... is playing with dolls manly?
draw the curtains if you feel that  nosey neighbours might be cramping your style.
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility  to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children  from adult conflicts.
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may  threaten to tear your family apart.
finally, there is a positive outlet for the physical gags you've practiced  since childhood.
read more... families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems that create conflict and stress.
read more... how to share in your partner's pregnancy face your fear.
tips on stress set aside time for yourself.
so why should they accept it from any other man?
to  help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william  wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
are you worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?read more... could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope with the divorce of their parents.
i  really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day  left me feeling empty.
for example, one daughter may receive love best  when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a  set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her  something.
lack of  sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers  and mothers...
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing, cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
however, respect your baby's taste, too: mark was "met with little success" when imitating pavarotti while singing "hush little baby."
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no heart-to-hearts.
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means much more than the textbook definition.
like any mystery,  the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining,  baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at  once...
storytelling made easy why tell stories?
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best to help dads bond with their babies.
the  registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point  for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
divorce can bring out the worst in people.
that’s  exceedingly rare.
and most  of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
should you stay together for the  sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your  kids?
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of the date of birth.
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the effects ofdivorce on children.
read  more... marriage counseling illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting  — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
at least one-third of all children will be part of a  stepfamily before they reach age 18.
in it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on when you don’t know what to do next.
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!read more...
stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
rock and sing for many, this could easily fit under "embarrassing  personal stunts."
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a  daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
but if you ask most dads, you'll find that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own special ways to soothe their babies.
read more... dads play with kids can make a big difference
many dads i meet share this mistaken idea:read more...
if your baby's not in pain, she's not hungry, tired, or wet, and she doesn't want to be held or rocked, then let her cry, at least for as long as you can stand it.