see the faq file for information on how to search for autographs, letters, and ephemera (vintage movie posters, magazines, newspapers, greeting cards, maps, etc.)
bestseller lists 1900-1998 - from the publishers weekly lists.
overbooked (book links) - a resource for readers featuring fiction and mystery titles which received three or more starred reviews from major review sources.
best book buys  - provides price comparisons for 20 online bookstores.
king county library system: mega-lit - 150 all-time classics.
see the  faq file for information on how to search for autographs, letters, and ephemera  (vintage movie posters, magazines, newspapers, greeting cards, maps, etc.)
writers are readers - where authors review books - an online publisher of book reviews written exclusively by authors of book-length fiction and nonfiction.
electronic books - read or download a book on your computer!
readers circle - free zip code-based directory for book clubs, reading groups, and literary salons of all kinds.
best book buys - provides price comparisons for 20 online bookstores.
top ↑ books meta sites bookspot - awards, reviews, bestsellers, book stores, e-books,  book groups, and more.
bookfinder.com - a mega-search site for used, rare and antiquarian books as well as new books.
top ↑ locations & hoursalbany barbour blue hills camp field downtown dwight goodwin mark twain park street sand / ropkins 500 main street hartford, ct 06103 (860)695-6300 mon - thurs 10 am - 8 pm fri & sat 10 am - 5 pm sun (nov - apr) 1 pm - 5pm need help?
intended to connect those  interested in talking about books, either in person and over the internet.
books & reviews books  meta sites online book buying out-of-print book clubs oprah's books - read about books seen on the show, oprah's  selection of books that make a difference, her personal favorites, and find out  how to host a book club.
top ↑ book page online - many book reviews and author interviews.
king county library system: good reads for kids - lots of links to children's books and authors.
bookfinder.com - a mega-search site for used, rare and  antiquarian books as well as new books.
bestseller lists 1900-1998 - from the publishers weekly lists.
readers' advisor online - readers' advisory resource which assists fiction readers in finding new authors and titles.
king  county library system: mega-lit - 150 all-time classics.
bookbrowse.com - books selected from bestseller lists that  have been recently published in the usa, with an excerpt of each one; plus  reviews, author bios, interviews, bestseller lists & reading guides.
series and sequels - search by author, title, series or character.
readers' advisor online - readers'  advisory resource which assists fiction readers in finding new authors and  titles.
reading group choices  - locate books that are good to discuss, plus discussion guides for  hundreds of titles.
the book group corner offers reader's companion guides that provide background and stimulate discussion on specific titles.
genreflecting - find titles and authors in these genres:  historical fiction, crime, romance, science fiction and fantasy.
reader's circle also has authors available for over-the-phone visits with groups that have selected their book.
awardweb - collection of literary award information.
new york times books - requires a free initial registration.
king county library system: teen zone - young adult authors, book lists, awards and literary criticism, plus sites for teen writers.
writers are readers - where authors review books  - an online publisher of book reviews written exclusively by authors  of book-length fiction and nonfiction.
top ↑ online book buying addall - provides price comparisons for over 35 online  bookstores.
notice the separate link for used books.
top ↑ bookspot - awards, reviews, bestsellers, book stores, e-books, book groups, and more.
new york review of  books - select table of contents for current reviews, or search the  archive for past reviews.
overbooked (book links) - a resource for readers featuring  fiction and mystery titles which received three or more starred reviews from  major review sources.
king county library system: good reads  - award winners for adult fiction and non-fiction.
king county library system: good reads for kids  - lots of links to children's books and authors.
reading group choices - locate books that are good to discuss, plus discussion guides for hundreds of titles.
ask a librarian phone: (860) 695-6300
go to the booksellers page to search  their individual suppliers.
internet public library: literary criticism - american and british literature pre-1500 to the 20th century.
also includes a teen section.
top ↑ ala best books - current and past winners of the american library association's outstanding reference sources and notable books awards.
reader's circle also has authors available for over-the-phone visits with  groups that have selected their book.
oprah's books - read about books seen on the show, oprah's selection of books that make a difference, her personal favorites, and find out how to host a book club.
includes advice for group leaders.
top ↑ out-of-print alibris - search for used, rare, and hard-to-find books.
reader resources - resources from random house.
top ↑ book lists ala best books - current and past winners of the american  library association's outstanding reference sources and notable books awards.
readers circle - free zip code-based directory for book clubs,  reading groups, and literary salons of all kinds.
top ↑ addall - provides price comparisons for over 35 online bookstores.
start your own book club - discusses different types of book clubs.
series and sequels - search by author, title, series or character.
genreflecting - find titles and authors in these genres: historical fiction, crime, romance, science fiction and fantasy.
electronic books - read or download a book on your computer!
start your own  book club - discusses different types of book clubs.
new york times books - requires a  free initial registration.
go to the booksellers page to search their individual suppliers.
king county library system: good reads - award winners for adult fiction and non-fiction.
awardweb - collection of literary award information.
top ↑ book page online - many book reviews and author interviews.
new york review of books - select table of contents for current reviews, or search the archive for past reviews.
also includes  a teen section.
intended to connect those interested in talking about books, either in person and over the internet.
top ↑ alibris - search for used, rare, and hard-to-find books.
top ↑ albany barbour blue hills camp field downtown  dwight goodwin mark twain park street sand / ropkins 500 main street
reader resources - resources from  random house.
text: 66746sitemap | staff login
internet public library: literary criticism - american and  british literature pre-1500 to the 20th century.
the book group corner offers reader's companion guides that  provide background and stimulate discussion on specific titles.
contains over 50,000 book reviews since 1980.
bookbrowse.com - books selected from bestseller lists that have been recently published in the usa, with an excerpt of each one; plus reviews, author bios, interviews, bestseller lists & reading guides.
king  county library system: teen zone - young adult authors, book lists,  awards and literary criticism, plus sites for teen writers.