learning a second language can be extremely important in the areas of government, the military, the legal profession, travel and hospitality, sales and marketing, translation, teaching, education, plus more.
top of the day to you out there!
the world seems to be getting smaller all the time.
welcome to our blogs!
more and more  school districts are recognizing the importance of learning a second language  and as a result they are now making it a requirement in order to graduate.
for kids as well as adults, learning a second language is really  important and i am going to leave you with a really interesting reference to  check out.
how learning a foreign language  helps your kids | home education ... by amandrew more and more school  districts have added a foreign language to their graduation requirements.
(under the  editorials section, an international perspective) http://www.onestopbookcafe.com (under the café talk link)
even the u.s. is becoming ...
donna j. jodhan is the president of  sterling creations
now you can view blogs and editorials written by donna at: http://www.donnajodhan.blogspot.com (donna jodhan!
the  world seems to be getting smaller all the time.
home previous - jobs and careers identified - the good and bad of curve cuts - your best american cities - water or coke?
learning a second language can be extremely important in the areas of  government, the military, the legal profession, travel and hospitality, sales  and marketing, translation, teaching, education, plus more.
all submissions will be reviewed to ensure appropriateness before they are published.
develop cultural understanding.
the world is becoming smaller and  smaller because communication in foreign languages is growing and as a result  more and more persons and companies are communicating with each other and with  the growth in global trade this trend is only going to increase.
i'm donna j. jodhan and today  i'd like to chat about how learning a foreign language can help your kids.
even the u.s. is becoming ... home education | home schooling http://www.homeeducationexperience.com/ i'm donna j. jodhan wishing you a terrific day and an early thanksgiving wish to our american customers and friends.
home education | home schooling – http://www.homeeducationexperience.com/ i'm donna j.  jodhan wishing you a terrific day and an early thanksgiving wish to our  american customers and friends.
now you can view blogs and editorials written by donna  at: http://www.donnajodhan.blogspot.com (donna jodhan!
how learning a foreign language helps your kids | home education ...
you can make your own submissions at no cost and if your submission is chosen, it will be published along with your name and any other information that you wish us to publish.
so, time for you to keep in touch!
subscribe to our feed staying in touch!
a page where you will find a selection of articles,  editorials, and human interest stories.
other areas where knowing a second language is either beneficial or necessary include government, the military, law, sales and marketing, travel and hospitality, teaching, translation and communications.
a page where you will find a selection of articles, editorials, and human interest stories.
donna j. jodhan is the president of sterling creations
enjoy and don't forget to send your feedback to us at info@sterlingcreations.ca.!
so, time for you to keep in  touch!
we strive to bring you information  that will keep you in touch with the rest of the world and we offer you an  opportunity to let the rest of the world keep in touch with you through your  very own contributions.
we strive to bring you information that will keep you in touch with the rest of the world and we offer you an opportunity to let the rest of the world keep in touch with you through your very own contributions.
in short, learning a second language when you are  a kid could be extremely beneficial.
http://www.sterlingcreations.com/businessdesk.htm (important answers to  consumers concerns) http://www.diversityintheworkplace.ca (monthly  editorial on issues concerning diversity) http://www.sterlingcreations.ca/magazine.html (monthly editorial) http://www.sterlingcreations.ca/blog/blog.html
all submissions will be reviewed to ensure  appropriateness before they are published.
by amandrew more and more school districts have added a foreign language to their graduation requirements.
advocating  accessibility for all) http://numpadplus.com/blog/?page_id=7 (access  and accessibility) http://www.accessibilitynews.ca/acnews/editorials/donna.php (accessibility  issues in canada) http://www.accessibilitynewsinternational.com
of  course it is important to have a solid grasp of the english. ...
tuesday, november 24, 2009 how learning a foreign language helps your kids | home education ...
by donna j. jodhan learning a second language these days is becoming more and more beneficial and the earlier in life that one does this, the better it would be.
i'm donna j. jodhan and today i'd like to chat about how learning a foreign language can help your kids.
(blogs for language professionals and accessibility consultants) posted by editor at 2:02 am 0 comments: post a comment <<
other areas  where knowing a second language is either beneficial or necessary include  government, the military, law, sales and marketing, travel and hospitality,  teaching, translation and communications.
of course it is important to have a solid grasp of the english. ...
advocating accessibility for all) http://numpadplus.com/blog/?page_id=7 (access and accessibility) http://www.accessibilitynews.ca/acnews/editorials/donna.php (accessibility issues in canada) http://www.accessibilitynewsinternational.com (under the editorials section, an international perspective) http://www.onestopbookcafe.com (under the café talk link) http://www.sterlingcreations.com/businessdesk.htm (important answers to consumers concerns) http://www.diversityintheworkplace.ca (monthly editorial on issues concerning diversity) http://www.sterlingcreations.ca/magazine.html (monthly editorial) http://www.sterlingcreations.ca/blog/blog.html
in short, learning a second language when you are a kid could be extremely beneficial.
the world is becoming smaller and smaller because communication in foreign languages is growing and as a result more and more persons and companies are communicating with each other and with the growth in global trade this trend is only going to increase.
for kids as well as adults, learning a second language is really important and i am going to leave you with a really interesting reference to check out.
- place pages raise seo, reputation and click concer... - celebrity linguists - setting the example | web tr... - jobs and careers identified - the most seasoned job hunters - your best american cities - computer designed to pick out hotties; analyzing f... subscribe to posts [atom]
sterling creations blog subscribe to our feed staying in touch!
by donna j. jodhan learning a second language these days is  becoming more and more beneficial and the earlier in life that one does this,  the better it would be.
enjoy and don't forget to send your feedback to us at  info@sterlingcreations.ca.!
more and more school districts are recognizing the importance of learning a second language and as a result they are now making it a requirement in order to graduate.
you can make your own submissions at no cost and if your submission is  chosen, it will be published along with your name and any other information  that you wish us to publish.
(blogs for language  professionals and accessibility consultants) posted by editor at  2:02 am