see more july 2 at  5:39pm · like bradley davis a critique of david hume's epistemology using only the  works of thomas reed.
our culture teaches compartmentalization, so teaching that  incorporates the two is important.
in churches we often make some pretty major decisions with just a couple of  people.
the writers of the gospel show us this message is a reality we can hardly comprehend.
consequently, these circumstances meant it was a  horrible place to trick or treat.
crucial to journey through your own story with complete honesty, acknowledging  the 'good,the bad, and t...see more july 2 at 10:24pm · like jonas aaron hamilton memorizing the leviticus but seriously proverbs  which is the book of wisdom to young folks or identity july 2 at 10:49pm  ·like maggie mraz creation care, outward focused living, spiritual disciplines,  relating appropriately to opposite gender, healing july 3 at 8:02am ·
lucky kid july 2 at  10:19pm · like chad brooks i am excited about all these responses.
like crystal farmer boyd just remember what it was like when we were kids and  someone started trying to talk to us about something we were competely not  interested in....we just talked to each other and didn't listen.
when using social media, intentionality is key.
but i think about these empty room, full of the necessary things for  life...
buy it and be ready for  next advent season.
david berkowitz, senior director of emerging media and innovation for360i, says facebook will now be about branding actions.
even in moments of trial and  struggle we don't shut doors in the spiritual places built.
they were all flash built  in several years.
“before on facebook it was about getting people to ‘like’ the  brand,” he says.
as pastors we must tell people about the other world, living in the the subversive act of preached hope.
this one positivc change didn't override the other negative changes any sort of shifts we feel are important for church must take cultural patterns seriously.
certainly the folks at netflix thought this was all a good idea and would provide a better experience.
due to both time and the fact i we have been pretty high  church lately, i decided to use a less formal approach to communion for  christmas eve.
for an increasingly mobile world it doesn't work.
netflix, as a company embraced by new media and business, acted very much with an old and outdated model.
i usually sabbath pretty well, but  lately that has meant passed out on the couch with the dog.
but i think about these empty room, full of the necessary things for life...
i wanted to be involved in the steps.
posted at 09:06 am in culture and worship, ministry | permalink | comments  (2) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | october 20, 2011 pastors, don't quit your day jobs...
yes, the content we are sharing might  be truly transformative.
we aren't selling a  product, but we are in the business of gospel transformation.
in the past, single provider business could make these sort of monumental decisions.
we aren't selling a product, but we are in the business of gospel transformation.
like maggie mraz jesus july 2 at 4:29pm · like felicia whitman pate i would definitely say purity and its importance.
this one  positivc change didn't override the other negative changes any sort of shifts we feel are important for church must take cultural  patterns seriously.
the tension revolves in the sacramental conviction i have as a methodist pastor to keep communion in line with the greater tradition of the church.
while we can't expect a company to announce, "hey we will be raising prices...what do you think is fair?", a certain level of transparency is expected today.
i found this while in seminary and it has proven its  worth several times over.
the situation can really speak into how churches make shifts in their various services/offerings and programs.
intentionally preaching eschatologically means a deliberate admonition of the end that comes across as assured as the deliberate notions of beginning.
church is the same way.
preached time creates the path to new jerusalem.
but without any actual living going on in them.
in many american households netflix gets its own  line item in the budget.
on this weekend, take these scattered moments to reflect on what how god has been active in your life this week.
let them  listen to god through you, not listen to you on god..
every time i think i have some moments to myself, i realize i have a long list  of things to get done around the house.
yesterday, i spent the better part of my morning doing something i have  done for over half my life.
posted at 09:51 am in advent, liturgy, methodism, ministry, worship,  worship design | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | october 31, 2011 big candy bar church: a meditation on halloween i grew up in a neighborhood full of rent houses.
present to them a basic reading strategy.
every teen and every group is different and have  different questions and struggles.
they neglected to bring what consumers now value the most; a better culture.
i could have bought the pre-butchered wings and used the gas side...
the directionality of our presentation changes,  but the basic truth of jesus doesn't.
the additional part of this is making sure we see  these are folks that we truly care about.
i could have bought the  pre-butchered wings and used the gas side...
it will allow you to stay away from so many testy issues.
namely, for folks who  wanted to both get content by mail as well as by stream, two accounts would  need maintenance.
i have written before about how local churches need to engage with revelation.
even in moments of trial and struggle we don't shut doors in the spiritual places built.
we have a  different set of rules we play by.
god gifts all of us, not just clergy, with skill sets needed by the church.
in the past,  single provider business could make these sort of monumental decisions.
like sandy douglass discuss the transformed life!
july 3 at 10:35am · like alice ward body stuff can also include drugs/alcohol, materialism, etc.
teen's bodies are changing so rapidly, that body stuff is really important -  and can tie into themes of incarnational living.
i have never had a group take option a. even if they are hardcore left behinders, the second choice just sounds better.
while some agree that this change back was needed, others see it as an attempt to cover their bottom line and hopefully regain capital and their momentum as a market leader.
multiple problems arose and netflix took a pretty heavy loss,with half the stock value dropping last month.
netflix could have assumed people would just roll with these changes because they needed the product that much.
this advent, my secret weapon for a few special services as been the a  christmas sourcebook.
cultural patterns inform shifts.
here are two broad ways that help us put perspective in our use of social  media in the church; 1.
where in the past he felt folks needed him to come up with these  dramatic plans and then implement them, in fact the church themselves wanted to  be part of visioning process.
a bad taste was left in the  mouth of the customer.
if people that "like" your ministry on facebook tend to not engage, eventually that means they will not be seeing your updates in their feed.
ok, that's my 2 cents!!
forgotten about, we slowly loose even the memory of these places in our hearts and close the door to the actions of the holy spirit that built them.
like matthew johnson my philosophy has always been to challenge teens to  become radical followers of jesus.
i pray that each of us will fully move into the place  god has built in our hearts, minds and souls.
posted at 08:55 am in culture and worship, ministry, social media | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | my church started a community reading of the new testament last week.
netflix could have assumed people would just roll  with these changes because they needed the product that much.
the character of revelation makes an auditory involvement necessary.
what we produce and share on facebook as ministries must viably offer something to the general public that provides a worthwhile meaning in their life.
when i actually have my lunch  (later than expected), i am pretty sure i will enjoy it more.
posted at 09:25 am in holiness, ministry | permalink | comments (1) |  trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | july 16, 2011 rest rest is a part of life that many of us don't get to experience too often.
rest is a reflection back on what god has done for his people (both individually and corporately).
we open the door on them from time to time, but once within they seem foreign.
in each community this looks different.
rest is a reflection back on what  god has done for his people (both individually and corporately).
in country terms; we need to hear revelation.
as christians, the call to the kingdom of god should be ever present in our vision.
july 2 at 5:13pm · like barry d cram purity matters, understanding spiritual authority,  "following christ in a consumer society is hard but worth it," and  "shut up because nobody really cares what you think until you're  thirty" (the last one is optional :-)
teaching and summing up life and parables with  140 characters or less) july 2 at 6:27pm · like bradley davis if chad did my suggestion, then i'm there too!
below is what i am using to tell the story of christ during our communion time.
that is  why we have monopoly laws.
on this weekend, take these scattered moments to reflect on what how god  has been active in your life this week.
what works for me will be  different from you.
i'm glad i figured  it out.
i found this while in seminary and it has proven its worth several times over.
it ended up being my daily reader.
this isn't about how much $$$ we give away...but the gospel message we deliver.
we have to be intentional and deliberate with it, but shouldn't we with all scripture?
“if your run is powered by nike, you might still wear adidas,” says berkowitz, “but adidas will have to find something else that’s social about its brand to become part of your story.”
the rooms are nicely equipped with furniture historical to the house, completely ready for people.
if they are good on that front, then  i would maybe go with the spiritual disciplines.
after all, it is their community we are trying  to impact.
past lives of holy fervor constructed them.
after a month i am fully moving into this house.
today i butchered up some chicken wings and threw them on the charcoal side of my grill.
reblog (0) | | |next »
that is why we have monopoly laws.
if people that "like" your ministry on  facebook tend to not engage, eventually that means they will not be seeing your  updates in their feed.
this is a repost from a blog i ran for a few years  postmoderneschatology.com.
july 3 at 10:38am · like charles l christensen
posted at 01:22 pm in bible, ministry | permalink | comments (0) |  trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | september 26, 2011 how the new facebook effects church social media unless you ran a marathon in antarctica last week, you have noticed the  changes infacebook.
their new split program allowed them  to rent video games as well as movies.
whatever is the quickest way to get a  movie usually is the option we take.
major shifts cannot be made behind closed doors with a select  group.
our content should be causing folks  to encounter real life together in the actual world.
a few years back at willow creek's leadership summit, bill hybels surprised the crowds by openly admitting his previous idea of leadership was flawed.
this is a repost from a blog i ran for a few years postmoderneschatology.com.
when church begins to no longer make sense, it will show and people don't have emotional attachements as strong as in the past.
you're the youth minister?
but we need to load the deck.
a bad taste was left in the mouth of the customer.
we have to be intentional and  deliberate with it, but shouldn't we with all scripture?
don't drop major shifts in peoples laps.
i am eternally  thankful for my friendscott for helping me realize the true depths of a  pastoral call.
the new custom settings allow facebook to gradually filter out content the  user appears to not engage in.
i have had their service off and on for almost 10  years.
like christopher cameron  i think the "why it all matters" question  is very important, and i think many people (not just teens) don't really know  why.
when having these discussions in a church context we have to remember the fine line between prophetic voice and worship consumption.
we direct the energy as well as take care of the movement so that  the laity can travel alongside.
while the uproar mostly consists of individual users, the changes in content management mean churches and ministries will need to reexamine how they use facebook in light of the new controls and settings.
at a base level, i can consider them only necessary for specific purposes, liking visiting family or hospitality.
posted at 10:24 am in ministry | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | october 11, 2011 3 things churches can learn from netflix
more than anything, i appreciate the formation that has taken place while using this bible.
forgotten about, we slowly  loose even the memory of these places in our hearts and close the door to the  actions of the holy spirit that built them.
this is a step to step life...not jump to jump.
july 2 at  4:29pm · like · 1 person jd swartz theosis.
in the enterprise of the earthly church taking revelation back, local pastors serve both as truck drivers and road crew.
whatever is the quickest way to get a movie usually is the option we take.
we aren't that loyal either.
if teaching revelation freaks you out, let the congregation make the first choice.
july 2 at  6:30pm · like teresa vandermolen authenticity.
when we do that we are really cheating on rest.
like maggie mraz poverty, prayer, addiction, self-giving, fun, hospitality,  self-care, sharing faith, worship, becoming invitational, kingdom of god,  friendship, knowing the stories of the gospels, song writing, stirring  creativity, racism july 2 at 4:46pm · like · 1 person adam davenport ask them what they want to study july 2 at 4:52pm ·  like · 2 people christina little collinsworth judgement and standing up for what you  believe even if it's not popular july 2 at 5:01pm · like crystal farmer boyd i agree with adam, talk to them.
are we pushing forward to better express the life of the sacrificing son of god?
related posts: the apocalyptic pastor preaching, mindmapping and the apocalypse of john christian time and the end of times glory be to the father, son and holy spirit: as it was in the beginning, is now, and shall ever be, world without end.
guys in  costume jumping out and scaring you, automatic ghosts falling out of the tree  and big candy bars.
they have stories and we  should tell those stories.
by drawing into "butt cover mode" these new recovery shifts by  netflix also failed to provide better culture.
specific words do not matter, but the greater story does.
between a bunch of broke young families not  having the money to really do it up and having their own children to cart  around...we had to go offsite.
for example, if a consumer posts  an update about a run they just took, that’s a prime opportunity for  nike.
you head over to the rich part of town on  october 31st.
july 2 at 5:19pm · like · 2 people herschel french why it all matters, as opposed to just doing what you  want.
i have a skill set useful to my congregation as well as others.
i think the book mere discipleship is a good one  for you to use...
after all, it is their community we are trying to impact.
we need to take in account for contextual shifts.
in church, we have to consistently be thinking about how our shifts lead to a better expression of the gospel of jesus and the proclamation of the in-breaking kingdom of god.
rest has been on my mind lately.
posted at 09:06 am in culture and worship, ministry | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | yesterday, i spent the better part of my morning doing something i have done for over half my life.
in one of those weeks host "gay  day" at your church and have all the students invite their gay friends...
they might even be marked on a map by some grubby hands covered in nougat and caramel.
what works for me will be different from you.
the tension revolves in the sacramental conviction i have as a methodist  pastor to keep communion in line with the greater tradition of the church.
also, what it means to be " in this world, not of it.".
the grace of god has appeared, ordering salvation to all men and women.
“before on facebook it was about getting people to ‘like’ the brand,” he says.
the believer  moving in sanctification will be pushing forward.
this alternate narrative answers the question  of who really is in charge.
i guess the church designed it for large families, but meredith and i plus emma the dachshund don't take up that much space.
it has plenty small bits that work well in advent and  christmas services.
we are story-tellers, not date-setters.
in churches we often make some pretty major decisions with just a couple of people.
years ago, i actually thought my calling to ministry would be serving as a  technical director for a large church.
those houses are remembered.
july 2 at 5:21pm · like · 1 person becky wood whalen your body is a temple...
really, anything to do with the physical body and how it ties into  spirituality.
instead of romantic historical meanderings  that lament morals gone amuck, we focus on preached time.
the rooms are nicely  equipped with furniture historical to the house, completely ready for people.
posted at 09:09 am in ministry | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | july 14, 2011 biblical concepts in youth minstry:
david berkowitz, senior director of emerging media and  innovation for360i, says facebook will now be about branding actions.
current younger generations feel a level of ownership inside their churches and calling them to leadership means making them involved in the process of leadership...not just shoring it up.
if we want for social media to be a viable way we reach people, it is  necessary to follow the way facebook chooses to distribute updates.
facebook: posted at 11:22 am in ministry, renegade youth ministry, social media | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
whenever i teach revelation to a new group of people, i start with a  question.
netflix allows members to rent movies via traditional mail as well as provides streaming content.
part of our overall call to stewardship means sharing every gift towards the advancement of god's kingdom.
every time i think i have some moments to myself, i realize i have a long list of things to get done around the house.
get out of the mentality that facebook is  the 21st century church bulletin and into the reality of it being the prophetic  voice of salvation.
this might mean worship at a time beyond sunday morning, small groups meeting  in non-traditional locations or exploratory looks at worship music.
innovation implementation should go  through the hands of the people.
this advent, my secret weapon for a few special services as been the a christmas sourcebook.
fill up the proverbial bucket with the good stuff.
having transforming content...not random information what we offer people needs to matter.
after putting it through the paces, i realized this would be the perfect bible for seminary.
july 2 at 4:37pm · like · 2 people julie martin wait..
starting this summer, the company drastically started lost membership by  increasing subscription fees.
shifts always lead to better culture.
no  matter what...never think you have a gifting unnecessary to the leadership of  your church.
but i wanted to really take part in  my lunch.
more than anything, i appreciate the formation that has taken place while  using this bible.
it was he who sacrificed himself for us, to redeem us from all unrighteousness and to cleanse for himself a people of his own, eager to do what is right.
these are good purposes, but not part of daily living.
it also would be horrible leadership if i refused to help out in an area i am gifted in.
we direct the energy as well as take care of the movement so that the laity can travel alongside.
i have done that  with my teens at work before.
july 2 at 5:51pm · like barry d cram for seniors, "how to survive the godless liberal  professor
july 2 at 5:39pm · like · 2 people christopher cameron bradley, i'm intrigued!
are we known for starlight mints, the mini reece's cups or a big butterfinger?
this bible can serve as the memoir for the last few years of my  life.
it is great to see something turn into a treasured possession and why i continue to try to keep its pages and cover from falling apart.
i have gone cover to cover with it  a few times and i love seeing dates and notes from previous readings.
the writers of the gospel show us this message is a reality we can  hardly comprehend.
“if your run is powered by nike, you might still wear  adidas,” says berkowitz, “but adidas will have to find something  else that’s social about its brand to become part of your story.”
in church, we have to consistently be thinking about how our shifts lead to  a better expression of the gospel of jesus and the proclamation of the  in-breaking kingdom of god.
posted at 09:25 am in holiness, ministry | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | rest is a part of life that many of us don't get to experience too often.
serious street cred has been lost.
i can think of 3 key movements; 1.
you know, not this fun size nonsense...but full size gas station candy bars.
to some, this might be an insurmountable task.
sometimes what we do doesn't make fiscal sense...but it makes kingdom sense.
the whole moral therapeautic diety question... posted at 11:22 am in ministry, renegade youth ministry, social media |  permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | |
todd wasserman wrote a great article over at mashable.com about how this affects marketers and we can learn a few lessons.
we have  several rooms that i go days without stepping into.
posted at 09:29 am in ministry, social media | permalink | comments (0) |  trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | july 25, 2011 vacant rooms my house is huge.
it also would  be horrible leadership if i refused to help out in an area i am gifted in.
between a bunch of broke young families not having the money to really do it up and having their own children to cart around...we had to go offsite.
you can stream through several places, you can  rent through redbox, you can drop by a brick and motor or you can use netflix  by mail.
my large dining room table is great for sermon prep and the couches are good for reading.
posted at 09:29 am in ministry, social media | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | my house is huge.
but ultimately,  they assumed a value that simply wasn't true.
they neglected to bring what consumers now value the most; a  better culture.
i wanted to find something brief but strong and would fit well within our service.
get out of the mentality that facebook is the 21st century church bulletin and into the reality of it being the prophetic voice of salvation.
at a base level, i can  consider them only necessary for specific purposes, liking visiting family or  hospitality.
we  can either let revelation be a book that only pertains to a distinct group of  people at only one time in the history of the world or we can read it as though  it has informed the church for 2000 years and will continue to speak to  us."
i have writtenbefore about different bibles
i would suggest "after you believe" from n.t. wright on this  topic as a resource book (not as a book to go through...
as pastors we must tell people about the other world,  living in the  the subversive act of preached hope.
our role is to theologically play the  childhood game of “connect the dots”.
we need to express this fullness in every way, shape and form.
facebook makes it handy to have a huge list of folks to message or present your latest video/sermon or bible study series too.
posted at 09:51 am in advent, liturgy, methodism, ministry, worship, worship design | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | i grew up in a neighborhood full of rent houses.
reading through them, what are your thoughts?
part of our overall call to stewardship means sharing every gift towards the  advancement of god's kingdom.
we need to rejoice in the small things.
spending  years on the road and years running installed systems give me a unique  perspective in a sometimes perplexing field.
facebook  makes it handy to have a huge list of folks to message or present your latest  video/sermon or bible study series too.
posted at 10:24 am in ministry | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | over the last few months, controversy has surrounded movie provider netflix .
we attempt to "rest" in 3 hour blocks or hurriedly force it upon ourselves in week blocks once a year.
july 2 at 5:22pm · like justin bronson barringer
it was through a mentoring relationship that i found giftings in discipleship, teaching and leading.
years ago, the only movie rental option was your local blockbuster.
you head over to the rich part of town on october 31st.
we all have vacant rooms like this in our lives.
multiple problems  arose and netflix took a pretty heavy loss,with half the stock value dropping  last month.
the additional part of this is making sure we see these are folks that we truly care about.
we can either let revelation be a book that only pertains to a distinct group of people at only one time in the history of the world or we can read it as though it has informed the church for 2000 years and will continue to speak to us."
probably because i am tired all the time.
namely, for folks who wanted to both get content by mail as well as by stream, two accounts would need maintenance.
it goes something like this; "i am going to let you make a decision as to how we will read this book and how i will teach it to you.
i love seeing passages i have preached, written papers on and used in bible studies.
posted at 01:22 pm in bible, ministry | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | unless you ran a marathon in antarctica last week, you have noticed the changes infacebook.
i have forgotten how to be satisfied with rest, and i am reminded of it in my own bible reading these last few days.
sculpt what you create to fit the way people are using and  retaining information.
the people that choose to engage with our ministries on facebook are worthy of the same care and attention of those who spend time in our worship services during the week.
like · 1 person austin rinehart inclusiveness july 2 at 4:28pm · like daisy work forgiving others, respecting parents july 2 at 4:28pm ·  like maggie mraz money july 2 at 4:28pm ·
it  has been great getting reports from members who are reading together.
almost every  house had a kid my age.
yeah, that's the one you want to do.
you dealt with the negatives because you wanted to renternest goes to camp .
like · 1 person maggie mraz love july 2 at 4:27pm ·
the new custom settings allow facebook to gradually filter out content the user appears to not engage in.
by drawing into "butt cover mode" these new recovery shifts by netflix also failed to provide better culture.
if our shifts do not provide a better expression of  this, we aren't being faithful to our mission.
they tell us where we have  been and the keep us on the path for the future.
today i butchered up some chicken  wings and threw them on the charcoal side of my grill.
we have several rooms that i go days without stepping into.
posted at 09:09 am in ministry | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | a couple weeks back i asked this question on facebook and twitter; "what do you think is the most pressing biblical concept for teens?"
buy it and be ready for next advent season.
i replied with "i have running audio for 15 years and  i don't think i will ever not."
the local  context shapes how the local church worships.
after  putting it through the paces, i realized this would be the perfect bible for  seminary.
so i have started living in my extra space, setting aside spiritual rhythms  that only take place in these rooms.
july 2 at 5:11pm ·  like adam davenport
most of all, have fun with it!
one of my members asked if i imagined i this as part of my job description.
sculpt what you create to fit the way people are using and retaining information.
loyalty is a increasingly relative concept in our times.
are we  pushing forward to better express the life of the sacrificing son of god?
intentionally preaching eschatologically means  a deliberate admonition of the end that comes across as assured as the  deliberate notions of beginning.
the situation can really speak into how churches make shifts in their  various services/offerings and programs.
i organized, rewired and did some planning for my churches sound system.
a few years back at willow creek's leadership summit, bill hybels  surprised the crowds by openly admitting his previous idea of leadership was  flawed.
no matter if the movie was in, if it was in good shape or quality of customer service, almost everyone had a blockbuster card.
i love seeing passages i have preached, written papers on and  used in bible studies.
there are a million pressing topics for  teens, but if they experience everything through a biblical lens, they'll be  (more) prepared for anything.
it was the perfect place to raise children.
for some of us that mean washing dishes or waiting tables.
they have stories and we should tell those stories.
this might mean worship at a time beyond sunday morning, small groups meeting in non-traditional locations or exploratory looks at worship music.
so i have started living in my extra space, setting aside spiritual rhythms that only take place in these rooms.
one authentic relationship (true  facerelationship with others, with jesus), also commitment as it ties into  integrity.
how often is our rest time look back and remember what god has done for us?
starting this summer, the company drastically started lost membership by increasing subscription fees.
we all hate wasted space and in a life with god it is easy to fall into the trap.
if that happens the other stuff comes into  focus.
everyone remembers doing this.
as christians, the call to the kingdom of god should be ever present in our  vision.
scripture always changes our lives, in ways we understand and in ways we often don't.
when church begins to no longer  make sense, it will show and people don't have emotional attachements as strong  as in the past.
the margins make it  nice for making outlines, taking notes and doing some quick ibs directly on the  page.
i organized, rewired and did some planning for my  churches sound system.
last week, our pastor shared a story about his favorite bible.
how can we lead our congregations in this if we are not willing and able to do it ourselves?
while this move did provide a new service, it did so at the expense of many other things.
those in the company of preachers must learn to call the church to its eschatological dwelling place.
i have decided to merge that content in with this blog and will occasionally post from its archives.
netflix was  attempting to read a hole in the market.
preached time creates  the path to new jerusalem.
i have had to tape it together in a few places and the cover has some gaff tape on it as well.
i own, and i want to share the evolution of my current daily bible.
no matter what...never think you have a gifting unnecessary to the leadership of your church.
march 25, 2012 talking about revelation: developing an eschatological hermaneutic i have written before about how local churches need to engage with  revelation.
i  pastor and lead the contemporary service at my church and over the last few  months we have used the more formal great thanksgiving liturgy in the united  methodist hymnal.
if teaching revelation freaks  you out, let the congregation make the first choice.
we attempt to "rest" in 3 hour blocks or hurriedly force it upon  ourselves in week blocks once a year.
july 2 at 6:57pm · like angela dunnam holston wise decision making.
the believer moving in sanctification will be pushing forward.
how often is  our rest time look back and remember what god has done for us?
fill up the proverbial bucket with the good  stuff.
i have forgotten how to be satisfied with rest, and i am reminded of it in  my own bible reading these last few days.
due to both time and the fact i we have been pretty high church lately, i decided to use a less formal approach to communion for christmas eve.
posted at 06:46 pm in bible, ministry, narrative worship, preaching, revelation, worship design | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | this christmas eve we are having communion together in my congregation.
years ago, i actually thought my calling to ministry would be serving as a technical director for a large church.
we might even need to acclimate ourselves to living in the space again.
when i actually have my lunch (later than expected), i am pretty sure i will enjoy it more.
the margins make it nice for making outlines, taking notes and doing some quick ibs directly on the page.
they tell us where we have been and the keep us on the path for the future.
make sure your content is easy to digest  and engage.
yes, updates about events and schedules  will still be part of facebook.
how can our simple puttering around on saturday be a holy activity?
they are formed and available for our dwelling and usually even equipped, but never used.
those in the company of preachers must learn to call the church to its  eschatological dwelling place.
posted at 08:55 am in culture and worship, ministry, social media |  permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | october 07, 2011 my bible my church started a community reading of the new testament last week.
my large dining room table is great for  sermon prep and the couches are good for reading.
yes, updates about events and schedules will still be part of facebook.
it was  he who sacrificed himself for us, to redeem us from all unrighteousness and to  cleanse for himself a people of his own, eager to do what is right.
while the uproar mostly consists of individual users, the  changes in content management mean churches and ministries will need to  reexamine how they use facebook in light of the new controls and settings.
revelation doesn't work in a passive setting.
i am eternally thankful for my friendscott for helping me realize the true depths of a pastoral call.
what we produce  and share on facebook as ministries must viably offer something to the general  public that provides a worthwhile meaning in their life.
if we want for social media to be a viable way we reach people, it is necessary to follow the way facebook chooses to distribute updates.
like d lowrie true discipleship.
you can stream through several places, you can rent through redbox, you can drop by a brick and motor or you can use netflix by mail.
i have said before christianity is not a stop and go faith.
how often have sound engineers argued with pastors over volume or worked long hours on a project that to the uninformed appears simple?
below is what i am using to tell the story of christ during our communion  time.
spending years on the road and years running installed systems give me a unique perspective in a sometimes perplexing field.
having deliberate christian community...not generic friends it is real easy to just collect followers on facebook.
you will do great no matter what you decide because you are approachable and  have a heart for god!!
how often have sound engineers  argued with pastors over volume or worked long hours on a project that to the  uninformed appears simple?
do we talk about an abundant  life with god or bemoan the loss of a previous christian culture?
in the enterprise of the earthly church  taking revelation back, local pastors serve both as truck drivers and road  crew.
like megan peters  also identity is huge.
they are formed and  available for our dwelling and usually even equipped, but never used.
it trains us to reject the godless ways and worldly desires and live temperately, justly and devoutly in this age as we await our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of the great god and of our savior christ jesus.
while this move did provide a new  service, it did so at the expense of many other things.
their new split program allowed them to rent video games as well as movies.
make sure your content is easy to digest and engage.
the eternal rest in hebrews 4.
we open the door on them from  time to time, but once within they seem foreign.
i am a big supporter of group collaborations  and equal leadership for the direction of a group.
in many american households netflix gets its own line item in the budget.
when investigating a shift remember culture matters.
and live for christ in the college classroom 101" july 2 at  6:18pm ·
todd wasserman wrote a great article over at mashable.com about how this  affects marketers and we can learn a few lessons.
the people that choose to  engage with our ministries on facebook are worthy of the same care and  attention of those who spend time in our worship services during the week.
we tell stories through facebook, we  share our lives together and we provide the necessary tools for people to have  this new life through jesus.
while some agree that this change back was needed, others see  it as an attempt to cover their bottom line and hopefully regain capital and  their momentum as a market leader.
guys in costume jumping out and scaring you, automatic ghosts falling out of the tree and big candy bars.
over the last few months, controversy has surrounded movie provider netflix .
like barry d cram ‎"the controversial five" (pick 5 shocking  statements and teach on one each week).
while we can't expect a company to announce, "hey we  will be raising prices...what do you think is fair?", a certain level of  transparency is expected today.
i guess the church designed it for large families, but  meredith and i plus emma the dachshund don't take up that much space.
one of my members asked if i imagined i this as part of  my job description.
we tell stories through facebook, we share our lives together and we provide the necessary tools for people to have this new life through jesus.
i have never had a group take option a. even if they are hardcore left  behinders, the second choice just sounds better.
these are the houses that have all sorts of surprises.
it also shows them that you respect them to  ask for their direction on topics!
do we talk about an abundant life with god or bemoan the loss of a previous christian culture?
you know, not this fun size nonsense...but full size gas  station candy bars.
“now, it’s about getting people to take  social actions enabled by that brand.”
but we also need to offer an environment wear  people can see the gospel truth of change.
how can our  simple puttering around on saturday be a holy activity?
we have a different set of rules we play by.
then earlier this fall, the company announced it was starting an additional company to handle its mail order dvd service, and netflix would only concentrate on streaming content.
present to them a basic  reading strategy.
i have gone cover to cover with it a few times and i love seeing dates and notes from previous readings.
i wanted to share this great resource with you.
innovation implementation should go through the hands of the people.
it trains us to reject the godless ways and worldly desires and live  temperately, justly and devoutly in this age as we await our blessed hope, the  appearing of the glory of the great god and of our savior christ jesus.
i was sent a nrsv notetakers edition several years ago to review.
this isn't about how much $$$ we  give away...but the gospel message we deliver.
i have decided to merge that content in with this  blog and will occasionally post from its archives.
remember that people loved netflix before these issues.
here are two broad ways that help us put perspective in our use of social media in the church; 1.
sometimes what we do doesn't make fiscal  sense...but it makes kingdom sense.
23 of the sourcebook.
the most important point was  this.
kids/ adults- have no trust in being  who they are, only what others want them to be, or what is expected of them.
yes, the content we are sharing might be truly transformative.
whenever i teach revelation to a new group of people, i start with a question.
scripture teaches us a few things about rest.
god rested on the 7th day of creation.
this alternate narrative answers the question of who really is in charge.
almost every house had a kid my age.
like · 1 person barry d cram ‎"why genesis chapters 1
we all hate wasted  space and in a life with god it is easy to fall into the trap.
are we known for starlight mints,  the mini reece's cups or a big butterfinger?
consequently, these circumstances meant it was a horrible place to trick or treat.
it has been great getting reports from members who are reading together.
after a month i am fully  moving into this house.
our bibles are like roadmaps to sanctification.
rest is also done ever mindful that i might have to stop rest and attend to my pastoral duties.
you couldn't get around it.
i have gotten to the point where i know exactly were certain passages  are...on the right or left page and where on that page.
i have  writtenbefore about different bibles i own, and i want to share the evolution  of my current daily bible.
shifts in our churches must always lead to a better vision of jesus.
give him praise for it and prepare  yourself for sunday.
below i have copied some of  them in.
below i have copied some of them in.
like bradley davis gosh, off the top of my head i would have to go with  explaining and defending basic orthodoxy.
netflix was attempting to read a hole in the market.
it is great to see something turn into a treasured  possession and why i continue to try to keep its pages and cover from falling  apart.
our role is to theologically play the childhood game of “connect the dots”.
related posts: preaching, mindmapping and  the apocalypse of john christian time and the end of times glory be to the father, son and holy spirit: as it was in the  beginning, is now, and shall ever be, world without end.
the land (and people) being "at rest" from the occupation of  joshua.
posted at 06:46 pm in bible, ministry, narrative worship, preaching,  revelation, worship design | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) reblog (0) | | | december 23, 2011 contemporary communion in advent this christmas eve we are having communion together in my congregation.
when having these discussions in a church context we have to remember the  fine line between prophetic voice and worship consumption.
“now, it’s about getting people to take social actions enabled by that brand.”
they were all flash built in several years.
i wanted to find  something brief but strong and would fit well within our service.
how can we lead our congregations in this if we  are not willing and able to do it ourselves?
others might have a more glamorous vocational history.
people remember who gave them the best.
i have gotten to the point where i know exactly were certain passages are...on the right or left page and where on that page.
it isn't a glamours job at all.
major shifts cannot be made behind closed doors with a select group.
you can find it on pg.
give him praise for it and prepare yourself for sunday.
how do our churches fit into this scheme?
yes as the leader, you can direct the conversation, but  asking for input from them shows respect and that you care about what they care  about, not just pushing your own adgenda.
but we also need to offer an environment wear people can see the gospel truth of change.
when using  social media, intentionality is key.
commitment sustains the love.. good luck bro.
it goes something like this; "i am going to let you make a  decision as to how we will read this book and how i will teach it to you.
netflix allows members to rent movies via traditional mail as well as  provides streaming content.
like alice ward anything to do with bodies - like body image and sexuality.
the directionality of our presentation changes, but the basic truth of jesus doesn't.
pastors, don't quit your days jobs.
we need to express this fullness in every way, shape and  form.
july 2 at 7:51pm ·  like megan peters few thoughts.
i replied with "i have running audio for 15 years and i don't think i will ever not."
instead of romantic historical meanderings that lament morals gone amuck, we focus on preached time.
they might even be  marked on a map by some grubby hands covered in nougat and caramel.
then earlier this fall, the company announced it  was starting an additional company to handle its mail order dvd service, and  netflix would only concentrate on streaming content.
rest is in response to doing holy work.
this past weekend, i took a last minute call to put  together a system for an outside event, haul the gear, set it up and run it  throughout the event.
the most important point was this.
i have to say, i got an amazing response.
i love seeing my own notes taken during times of worship  and prayer.
you can find it on pg. 23 of the sourcebook.
if our shifts do not provide a better expression of this, we aren't being faithful to our mission.
i can think of 3 key  movements; 1.
it has plenty small bits that work well in advent and christmas services.
for example, if a consumer posts an update about a run they just took, that’s a prime opportunity for nike.
i pastor and lead the contemporary service at my church and over the last few months we have used the more formal great thanksgiving liturgy in the united methodist hymnal.
current younger generations feel a level of ownership inside their churches  and calling them to leadership means making them involved in the process of  leadership...not just shoring it up.
thru 11 are essential to  your faith and worldview" (if the enemy can make you doubt the first 11  chapters of the bible, it's over)
our content should be causing folks to encounter real life together in the actual world.
loyalty is a  increasingly relative concept in our times.
it is a must buy for worship designers.
i have had their service off and on for almost 10 years.
for some of us that mean washing dishes  or waiting tables.
this past weekend, i took a last minute call to put together a system for an outside event, haul the gear, set it up and run it throughout the event.
it was through a mentoring relationship  that i found giftings in discipleship, teaching and leading.
scripture  always changes our lives, in ways we understand and in ways we often don't.
i love seeing my own notes taken during times of worship and prayer.
when we do that we are really cheating on  rest.
rest is also done  ever mindful that i might have to stop rest and attend to my pastoral duties.
the results a couple weeks back i asked this question on facebook and twitter;  "what do you think is the most pressing biblical concept for teens?"
july 2 at 6:24pm · like barry d cram ‎"jesus and the beattitweets"... (he was, you  know, the original tweeter...
now there are options.
we are story-tellers,  not date-setters.
where in the past he felt folks needed him to come up with these dramatic plans and then implement them, in fact the church themselves wanted to be part of visioning process.
i pray that each of us will fully move into the place god has built in our hearts, minds and souls.
netflix, as a  company embraced by new media and business, acted very much with an old and  outdated model.
you can consider it a perk ofparsonage living.
but i wanted to really take part in my lunch.
no  matter if the movie was in, if it was in good shape or quality of customer  service, almost everyone had a blockbuster card.
i have  had to tape it together in a few places and the cover has some gaff tape on it  as well.
certainly the folks at netflix thought  this was all a good idea and would provide a better experience.
yesterday they announced they are not moving to the two company structure and are going back to the previous model, as well as not changing pricing structures again.
the land (and people) being "at rest" from the occupation of joshua.
yesterday they announced they are not moving to the two company structure  and are going back to the previous model, as well as not changing pricing  structures again.
this bible can serve as the memoir for the last few years of my life.
facebook: maggie mraz sex july 2 at 4:23pm ·
the local context shapes how the local church worships.
we might even need to  acclimate ourselves to living in the space again.
i usually sabbath pretty well, but lately that has meant passed out on the couch with the dog.
but ultimately, they assumed a value that simply wasn't true.