i think that language learning is the same way.
do  you ever think about 2nd grade and say history, math or english class was hard?
work that kids just saw as part of life and occured naturally for them in their daily activities.
it takes kids 7-8 years before they speak their native language extremely well.
additionally, adults have become accustomed to learning new thing quickly with their increase intelligence and experience.
as adults we build up language learning too much in our minds as something  hard or think it will be easy and then get discouraged when we dont speak  fluently in 30 days.
work that kids just saw as part of life and occured  naturally for them in their daily activities.
you may learn faster or slower than the next
adults learning a foreign language think it is hard because they are more conscious of the effort they are exerting in order to gain this new skill and knowledge.
so do i think that it is easier for kids to learn a foreign language than adults.
it takes kids 7-8 years before they speak their native language extremely  well.
ive been thought about this for a long time and these are just some of my  personal rantings about kids vs adults in language learning.
but if you work hard you  will learn the language.
heres theblog post that reignited this subject for me.
i dont think that we have supernatural powers but at the same time feel that what holds many back are our own minds.
kids just do it  because it is part of their life.
do you ever think about 2nd grade and say history, math or english class was hard?
additionally, adults have become accustomed to  learning new thing quickly with their increase intelligence and experience.
facebook - twitter - digg  -stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit parse error:  syntax error, unexpected t_else in /nfs/c01/h11/mnt/9993/domains/letutor.com/html/wp-content/themes/limegreen_blog/comments.php on line 117
written by aaron comments off | print this post im not one who believes that people are limited.
i think that part of the reason that we think that kids learn easier is because they dont remember how hard it was because it was just part of life.
facebook - twitter - digg -stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit
adults are no different than kids in our ability to learn except that we  have this intellectual or emotional baggage that tells that we cant do  something or that it is too difficult and not worth trying.
ive been thought about this for a long time and these are just some of my personal rantings about kids vs adults in language learning.
im not sure that it is an easier for younger children to learn a foreign language but it does seem that the end result is a more fluid and natural speaker of the 2nd language.
adults can achieve the same results but it takes  time and hard work.
language has a humbling effect and probably takes the same amount of time  to learn as an adult as it does as a child.
adults are no different than kids in our ability to learn except that we have this intellectual or emotional baggage that tells that we cant do something or that it is too difficult and not worth trying.
fear, doubt, apprehension, suspicion, laziness and preconceived  notions about how something is.
adults are just more aware of all of the hard work it takes to learn a language.
i often get asked by adult students if it is too late for them to learn a foreign language.
i dont think that we have  supernatural powers but at the same time feel that what holds many back are our  own minds.
even then they will be learning it for another 8-10 years depending on their education.
so do i think that it is easier for  kids to learn a foreign language than adults.
but if you work hard you will learn the language.
im not sure that it is an easier for younger children to learn a foreign  language but it does seem that the end result is a more fluid and natural  speaker of the 2nd language.
my response is always that anyone can learn a foreign  language.
fear, doubt, apprehension, suspicion, laziness and preconceived notions about how something is.
heres theblog post  that reignited this subject for me.
adults are just more aware of  all of the hard work it takes to learn a language.
kids just do it because it is part of their life.
language has a humbling effect and probably takes the same amount of time to learn as an adult as it does as a child.
my response is always that anyone can learn a foreign language.
as adults we build up language learning too much in our minds as something hard or think it will be easy and then get discouraged when we dont speak fluently in 30 days.
adults learning a foreign language think it is hard because  they are more conscious of the effort they are exerting in order to gain this  new skill and knowledge.
kids vs adults learning a foreign language written by aaron comments off |  print this post im not one who believes that people are limited.
adults can achieve the same results but it takes time and hard work.
even then they will be learning it for another 8-10 years depending on  their education.
i think that part of the reason that we think that kids learn easier is  because they dont remember how hard it was because it was just part of life.
i often get asked by adult students if it is too late for them to learn a  foreign language.