what can happen to the woman who has this problem?
if a woman in your community is experiencing one of these problems, what can she and her family do?
read more... a good laugh helps break the tension.
you want to love and cherish her again.
do you recognise yourself in any of that?
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to  soothe your screaming newborn!!!
if she doesn’t go  to a health facility, should she go to a tba?
c. to elicit husband/male influential perspective on preparation women and families now make for birth, particularly their current role in preparations/support and potential roles; feasibility and acceptability of birth preparedness; and to understand motivations of men to participate in preparing for the birth and ensuring skilled attendance at delivery.
will i ever sleep again?
children love their parents and want  to be with them.
what happens if women and their families can’t pay these fees?
what happens if women and their families  can’t pay these fees?
read more... help your child cope with divorce many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
about 200 million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
things you definitely don’t want to expose your children to.
read more... dads hold up half the sky fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters  a lot for kids!
open communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
in it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on when you don’t know what to do next.
that's one of the reasons  we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death  or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro  long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and  life changing task.
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope with the divorce of their parents.
below is a list of some behaviors that children should be protected from.
understanding something about those stages can help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually just a part of growing up.
b. to determine factors that underlie household and community level delays in seeking skilled care for normal births and in obstetric emergencies, particularly their own role but also the specific role of other household and community influentials.
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do it
in fact, it may be a major barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility  to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children  from adult conflicts.
do you think that they should have this kind  of discussion?
so here are a few tips to help you make it  through those (short) nights.
whether or not your children say it or show it, you  can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around  it.
about  half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including  chromosomal problems.
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the  liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means  much more than the textbook definition.
during a woman’s pregancy, does her husband do anything to prepare for childbirth?
if the woman wants to go a health facility, can she go even his without permission?
sit and read a book for 10 minutes.
men are even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses, partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
of course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
read more... infidelity: mending your marriage after an affair infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief,  fear, guilt, shame.
children's expectations of you and your ex marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter  is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
what are some of the present barriers to and successful determinants of  fathers involvement and support for women and children living with and exposed  to hiv & aids in zimbabwe?
of  course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
play is the main means through which they learn ideologies, worldviews, behaviors, knowledge and skills to negotiate their place in their world.
do you want them to connect one heart to another?
what do staff at health facilities do to help women  during delivery?
when a woman is pregnant, are men involved in any discussion about where she’s going to delivery the baby?
as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be involved in your child's life.
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!read more...
in the  twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard  many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
if a pregnant woman and her family have different ideas about where she should deliver or which preparations should be made, whose opinion in the family is the final decision?
play is "the work of children".
you may be able to help with our literature review or you may be working with fathers and families in chiredzi and be able to help us find interviewees.
so why should they accept it from any other man?
who is involved in discussing and making these arrangements?
you may be able to help with our literature review or  you may be working with fathers and families in chiredzi and be able to help us  find interviewees.
activities with infants as your child grows older she will want different things from her  engagement with you.
read more... do you use domestic violence?
read more... relationships with children are much like plants, they need constant nourishing!
wordsworth read more... single, separated and divorced fathers a peaceful divorce?
but during those bleary early weeks, when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out where to start.
questions to ask: 8.
read more... kids love talking!
she studied a group of 131 children and  their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25  years.
what do men know about obstetric complications?
ask each of the following questions: a) is there anything that they can try at home to solve the problem?
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as  all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
read more... five commandments for today's family man two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the  proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
d. to explore husband/male influential support and perceived consequences of tba compared to care by a skilled attendant during and after delivery, and their perspective on the preferences of women now for birth attendant and birth location, and reasons why women do or do not use skilled care (barriers, motivators, willingness to change).
what are barriers to delivering in health facilities?
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other would be useless.
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your children.
what are some of the present barriers to and successful determinants of fathers involvement and support for women and children living with and exposed to hiv & aids in zimbabwe?
that’s a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
what dads-to-be dream about could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
like any mystery,  the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining,  baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at  once...
yet, no parental  action has a greater impact on children.
i want to ask you questions about what men in your community think about this issue, because we know that men are important in the family.
when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a  challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
if there is, i can't imagine it.
creative stories are a chance to build a great and loving memory.
say: thank you for answering all our questions  about giving birth.
over the years  my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has  developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different  families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and  beliefs.
here's how it's done: read more... how to share in your partner's pregnancy face your fear.
for taking the time to talk to me/us.
as a  dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may  open a floodgate of dreams.
it takes  special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for the sake of the kids.
if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in denial or not paying attention!
are  there exceptions?
after all,  we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in  the process.
if work takes you away from your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
can men get  something like the baby blues as well as women?
say: i’d like to ask you about how women and their families prepare for childbirth.
whether or not your children say it or show it, you can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around it.
managing your anger ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever  realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!
ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
non-violent relationships: a role for fathers good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they  lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their  children.
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile environment of the vagina.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial  elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
read more... 10 dad-tested ways to soothe a crying baby waaaaah!!!
but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose  it...'
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear, you're only normal.
understand how a marriage can be rebuilt after an affair.
men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
read  more... tell your kids you love them!
read more... as your child grows older she will want different things from her engagement with you.
it can cause an exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
the  registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point  for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
why do you think women sometimes deliver their babies at  home?
c)   which health facilities can they go to?
if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in  denial or not paying attention!
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of  the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile  environment of the vagina.
fathers play a critical role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from abuse and neglect.
why? b)   where can they go to get help in your community?
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best  to help dads bond with their babies.
is there anything specific they want to know more about?
your family can be your greatest source of  support, comfort and love.
we must understand these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work effectively with fathers and families.
read more we have an explicit commitment to gender equity and the un convention on the rights of the child (crc).
however, when you are  away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
for each problem ask: a) have any of your wives or close female relatives ever had that problem?
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
read on for some advice and reassurance that there is a sex life after baby!read more...
will your baby be born with ten  fingers and ten toes?
or maybe you've been dreaming about your grandparents?
a father is the first man his daughter knows.
how soon  after the birth should she go?
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a  daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
out of all these problems, which do you think are the  most serious?
do women and their families ever make  plans in advance in case problems like these occur?
if yes: do they have favorite programs?
will your baby be born with ten fingers and ten toes?
other than friends  and family, how do men learn about other health-related topics?
whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are similar...
next time you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their granparents.
read more... marriage counseling illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting  — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
you want to love and cherish her  again.
read more... is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married to the mother of his child?
you haven't had a real conversation for weeks.
individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is also very individual.
and even through attempts at reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
what kind of transportation can they take to get to a health facility?
read more... men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often from their dad.
i  really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day  left me feeling empty.
quick discipline strategies a good laugh helps break the tension.
once the initial settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation: read more... listen to her - and then listen some more girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
these hurdles may seem silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
the effects of divorce on children and how to cope
b)   do you know anyone who had that problem?
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the  effects ofdivorce on children.
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed in this article.
say: some women experience complications in  late pregnancy, childbirth and the first weeks after delivery.
what happens it’s time for a woman to deliver her baby but her husband’s not available?
the various sections on this page should give you some basic reassurance!read more... illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
you haven't had a real conversation  for weeks.
or maybe you've been dreaming about your  grandparents?
there have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on children.
how much influence does the woman herself have over where she’s going to deliver?
do you think that they should have this kind of discussion?
are you concerned that your behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
read more... i have been violent or abusive and i need help 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner she is scared of  me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen  again -
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in  harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
these hurdles may seem silly,  unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
counselling is a major  factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv  testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
if a woman has a normal delivery and a healthy baby and  feels well, should she go for a check-up for herself?
what do women not like about delivering with a tba?
you can also find other dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you believe society expects of a male parent.
family therapy can help families  identify and resolve problems.
pending fatherhood can make you think about your family's roots.
should you stay together for the  sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your  kids?
and most  of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
read more... can men get the baby blues?
myths surrounding children and divorce
with time, you and your baby will develop your own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
there is growing evidence  that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that  positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
before the baby is born, you may find  that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that  they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
questions to ask: 1.
how do they treat the  people who come with the woman to the health facility, like her family members  or a tba?
i had phoned my wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
in a study of smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking mother).
do you want those words to have real meaning to your child?
in fact, it may be a major  barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
these days, for urban dads it's more unusual if he isn't there.
if the woman wants to go a health facility, can  she go even his without permission?
what's that?read more...
it seems some parents can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for their children.
if a woman in your community is  experiencing one of these problems, what can she and her family do?
focus group discussion guide: men interview schedule interviewer comments: interviewer code date district location venue time: from to focus group discussion with group of men of reproductive age respondent code: ethnicity: participants names: distance to facility w/ maternity: (less than 5km) (more than 5km) closest facility w/ surgical capacity: research objectives: a. to explore husbands' and other male influentials' motivations and barriers to being involved in: birth preparedness, promoting skilled attendance, using skilled care.
read more... be there for her!
as  we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and  especially fathers.
contact trevor attrevor@africanfathers.org.zwread more the work of children is play.
your family can be your greatest source of support, comfort and love.
it is generally accepted that children learn both good and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
but during those bleary early weeks,  when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out  where to start.
say: i’m also interested to hear how women around here learn about childbirth.
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of the date of birth.
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child development as motherhood!
what is the role of the father who is present at the birth of his child?
who helps in planning and making preparations for birth?
questions to ask: 12.
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you  believe society expects of a male parent.
but they are not silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to fathers.
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children from adult conflicts.
how to adjust to life as a single father is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a  new single dad with children at home?
are there other plans that you think they should make in advance?
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your marriage.
remember that as difficult as it may  be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of  their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
do you think that men would be interested in learning more about these issues?
out of all these problems, which do you think are the most serious?
many dads i meet  share this mistaken idea: read more... stepfathering stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a  situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
is he a labor coach, advocate or partner?
in most men, 15 to 45  million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only  400 survive after a man ejaculates.
and, when you consider the benefits, why not?
but it is certainly much harder, and  it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children  that he needs to.
how soon after the birth should she go?
and even through attempts at  reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
this could mean that you're worried that pregnancy will damage your sex life.
real dads play dolls is playing with dolls manly?
how easy or difficult would it be to make these kinds of plans?
who should initiate a conversation on this topic? 2.
that’s exceedingly rare.
and most of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
during the first  few weeks after childbirth?
daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
divorce: your child's perspective children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during  and after divorce.
we support the importance of mothering and mothers’ rights to children, and we highlight the importance of parents working co-operatively for the interests of children.
who should go with her?
how do men first know what happens  during childbirth and the time just after?
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and grief.
what are all the places for delivery women and their families consider?
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with  someone besides your partner?
fathers and smoking parental smoking is a significant issue.
creative stories are a chance to build  a great and loving memory.
where do they usually assist deliveries – at their own homes or at  women’s homes?
now i would just like to ask you a few more questions  about the time right after childbirth.
that's one of the reasons we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
how do they help a woman feel more comfortable?
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and  grief.
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use  abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do  it
around here, what types of complications can women have? complications during late pregnancy?
for many couples, being together is what feels right.
she studied a group of 131 children and their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25 years.
and yet dads often feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge getting there.
if a woman has a normal delivery and a healthy baby and feels well, should she go for a check-up for herself?
here's how it's done:read more... face your fear.
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was  astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
facts about men's fertility men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
e. renkel it is much easier to become a father than to be one. ~kent
do you think that women should go to a health facility after they deliver to get a check-up for themselves?
is there anything else that you’d  like to tell me/ us about your experience?
family therapy can help families identify and resolve problems.
how do men view early postpartum care on a routine basis?
where do they usually get this kind of information?
say: some women experience complications in late pregnancy, childbirth and the first weeks after delivery.
our best solution for this natural by-product of humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
are you worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?read more...
are you concerned that your  behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
with time, you and your baby will develop your  own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
communication  channels notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: how do pregnant women get information and support from their household and  community?
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly  stand to have the old man around.
however, play with their peer group, with older children and with adults is highly value laden and gendered in its socialization, psychosocial growth and wellbeing effects on young children.
can men get something like the baby blues as well as women?
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to soothe your screaming newborn!!!
why do they like those programs?
the screaming and crying will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved rest.
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly stand to have the old man around.
it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than  to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child  development as motherhood!
there are times when too much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too hard.
who is involved in discussing  and making these arrangements?
for example, one daughter may receive love best when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her something.
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the  new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
do not read objectives out loud to interviewee!
do you want to use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your heartfelt affection for your children?
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear,  you're only normal.
you can also find other  dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
read  more... how to be more involved with your baby
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply involves creating a new branch.
dads love to have fun with  their kids, at least the great ones do.
if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying  around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
so the short answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of the expectant mother.
how are each of these arrangements made?
dads love to have fun with their kids, at least the great ones do.
however, when you are away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
our best solution for this natural by-product of  humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your  friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
read more by now you should have noticed changes in your fitness and strength as well as in your body.
ask each of the following questions: a)   is there anything that they can try at home to solve the  problem?
but if you ask most dads, you'll find that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own special ways to soothe their babies.
ever felt that your anger was getting  the best of you?
is it a topic they  discuss with their friends?
maybe you have thought of something that we have left out.
fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters a lot for kids!
be it gardening together,  singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the  ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help  them to develop into happy healthy children.
that’s  a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
we can work this out.
if so, consider strengthening 'i love you' with the following suggestions.
dads don't get a lot of credit for  being soothing, nurturing types.
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts and heal wounds.
so here are a few tips to help you make it through those (short) nights.
and they love grandparents.
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
at what times do those programs air?
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only the father smokedread more...
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a  poster.
for each problem ask: a)   have any of your wives or close female relatives ever had  that problem?
do they ask women and their families to purchase any items or pay any fees?
counselling is a major factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
in a study of  smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months  old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking  mother).
what would make it easier for women and their families to make these kinds of plans?
birth preparedness notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: what types of routine preparations are made for childbirth?
i’d like to ask you some questions now about why this is.
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting  in an early miscarriage.
contact trevor attrevor@africanfathers.org.zw read more intangible heritage - indigenous knowledge around parenting tweet
it is generally accepted that children learn both good  and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
say: as you know women deliver their babies at different places – at their own homes, tbas homes, and health facilities.
open  communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and  patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
but it is certainly much harder, and it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children that he needs to.
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means much more than the textbook definition.
it's you she wants in the delivery room be there for her!
try to agree with your ex the following.
read on for some advice and reassurance that  there is a sex life after baby!
it takes special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
what do they like about delivering there?
as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be  controlled.
if so, consider strengthening 'i love  you' with the following suggestions.
it can cause an  exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in  turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
what  do women not like about delivering with a tba?
things you definitely don’t want to  expose your children to.
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but the rewards are great.
fortunately, most blended families are able  to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
children's ways of love individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is  also very individual.
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the effects ofdivorce on children.
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than what anyone else tells her!read more...
what are potential outlets for health-related messages, including  radio?
maybe you have thought  of something that we have left out.
whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
what happens it’s time for a woman to deliver her baby but her  husband’s not available?
infection, injury, congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use  violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
will you be a good dad?
who else is involved?
as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be  involved in your child's life.
read more... one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate discipline for their children.
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply  involves creating a new branch.
”read more... many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
when an affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed  in this article.
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts  and heal wounds.
raising your daughter every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his  daughter’s life!
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your  marriage.
read more... how your child's behaviour changes as they grow not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do  pass through the same stages.
yet, no parental action has a greater impact on children.
situations of family and relationship violence impact couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
read more... sometimes the poorest man leaves his children the richest inheritance.
a small percentage of men have a blockage in  their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate  fluid.
sex and the new dad how long until we ...?
at least one-third of all children will be part of a stepfamily before they reach age 18.
dad's at a distance - working away relationships with children are much like plants, they need  constant nourishing!
there are strong physical and emotional  impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
around here, are men ever away when their wives go into labor?
the professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
after another process called capacitation (an explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization and conception.
do you want those words to have real meaning to  your child?
how are men, specifically, involved?
during the first few weeks after childbirth?
below is a list of some behaviors that  children should be protected from.
what do you think can happen once they get to a health facility?
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily  through the activities and time spent with your children.
what are potential outlets for health-related messages, including radio?
they can guide you where to go.
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with someone besides your partner?
after all, we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
read more many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with their children.
c) which health facilities can they go to?
f)    what do you think can happen once they get to a health  facility?
however, play with their peer group, with older  children and with adults is highly value laden and gendered in its  socialization, psychosocial growth and wellbeing effects on young children.
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new coping skills and improve how your family works together.
questions to ask: 14.
that belief is of little  use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
say: we talked about preparing for delivery, and about giving birth.
there are many times i just don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get from my girls.
questions to ask: 4.
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other  would be useless.
registering baby's birth
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of  the date of birth.
then discuss it with your child or children.
could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
want to be involved?
read more... manage your portion sizes and take the following tips into consideration.
the list of potential adjustments is long, and it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
how soon after a woman gives birth can  she first leave her house?
lack of  sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers  and mothers...
if yes: where are they usually (probe for migrant work,  etc.)?
many dads i meet share this mistaken idea:read more...
after another process called capacitation (an  explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough  outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization  and conception.
read more being dad
before the baby is born, you may find that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
and yet dads often  feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge  getting there.
do it!read more... ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
william klatte has written an insightful book calledlive-away dads.
how do men feel about planning for obstetric emergencies?
be it gardening together, singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help them to develop into happy healthy children.
say: this is part of a study to learn more about how we can help women be healthier in pregnancy and childbirth.
sometimes the poorest man leaves his children the richest inheritance.
now i would just like to ask you a few more questions about the time right after childbirth.
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say, "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?"read more...
when an  affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed  — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
instead of backing  the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
i have watched this  closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been  separated and preparing for divorce.
lack of sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers and mothers...
skilled care for obstetric emergencies notes for the interviewer
are there  other plans that you think they should make in advance?
read more... it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
play is the main means through which they  learn ideologies, worldviews, behaviors, knowledge and skills to negotiate  their place in their world.
what do staff at health facilities do to help women during delivery?
the adjustments for dad, mum and kids are major.
in some measures, father-love is more important.
but they are not silly, unnecessary,  or insignificant to fathers.
but if you ask most dads, you'll find  that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own  special ways to soothe their babies.
what is the role of  the father who is present at the birth of his child?
the  professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence  suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is  as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.”
they can guide you  where to go.
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest  wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say,  "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?" read more... bonding with the new baby
early postpartum care notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: what are customary practices during the first two weeks after childbirth?
we must understand  these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work  effectively with fathers and families.
fortunately, most blended families are able to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first,  that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
what kinds of arrangements do they make if they decide to go to a health facility?
why do you think some women deliver with tbas and others deliver by themselves or with family members?
say: thank you for answering all our questions about giving birth.
i had phoned my  wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
say: i’m also interested to hear how  women around here learn about childbirth.
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only  the father smoked read more... dads and breastfeeding breast is best!!!
to  help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william  wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
discipline is all about modifying  behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
in the twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
your answers have been very helpful.
the list of potential adjustments is long, and  it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
for taking the time to talk to  me/us.
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no heart-to-hearts.
girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
w hy do you think some women deliver at health  facilities and others deliver their babies at home and/or with tbas?
she's not made of porcelain!
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation:read more...
this page contains  resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
there are strong physical and emotional impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship  with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
what do tbas do to help women during delivery?
men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open  but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often  from their dad.
there are times when too  much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too
like any mystery, the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining, baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at once...
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first, that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
w hy do you think some women deliver at health facilities and others deliver their babies at home and/or with tbas?
children love their parents and want to be with them.
daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are  similar...
read more... children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during and after divorce.
fathers play a critical  role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from  abuse and neglect.
dealing with miscarriage miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
these days, for urban dads it's  more unusual if he isn't there.
wordsworthread more...
there are many times i just  don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in  the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working  away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get  from my girls.
they let their  daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the  norm.
read more... two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
read more... is playing with dolls manly?
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word  go: read more...
making the most of visits with the kids many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an  often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with  their children.
who’s involved in the conversation?
they let their daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the norm.
read more... five worries about fathering our daughters
if yes: what do they do?
read more... every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his daughter’s life!
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
why do you think some women  deliver with tbas and others deliver by themselves or with family members?
find ways to keep anger under  control as you work with your children.
is it a topic they discuss with their friends?
whether it's you,  your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family  therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
this page contains resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose it...' do you recognise yourself in any of that?
should you stay together for the sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your kids?
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or  excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
children in blended families may at first  resist the many changes they face.
blended families stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm  now than ever.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
read more... tips on stress set aside time for yourself.
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your  shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
b) do you know anyone who had that problem?
if you are like almost every other new father you are not alone!
do women and their families ever make plans in advance in case problems like these occur?
whether it's you, your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
infection, injury,  congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be thinking, feeling and needing from you.
trocaire funding hiv & aids research tweet fathers' efforts to secure the future of their children in the context  of multiple stresses involving hiv and aids
skilled care for obstetric emergencies notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: what do men know about obstetric complications?
then discuss it  with your child or children.
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new  coping skills and improve how your family works together.
stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
do you want to  use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your  heartfelt affection for your children?
a small percentage of men have a blockage in their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate fluid.
children in blended families may at first resist the many changes they face.
it seems some parents  can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for  their children.
for many couples, being together is what feels  right.
if she doesn’t go to a health facility, should she go to a tba?
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study, published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
about 200  million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
you'd be odd if you weren't afraid.
e)   what kind of transportation can they take to get to a health  facility?
what are the best parts about delivering with a tba?
parental smoking is a significant issue.
i'm in control so you are safe.
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to  the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that  dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children  and themselves.
do men around here ever listen to the radio?
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no  heart-to-hearts.
the various sections on this page  should give you some basic reassurance!
playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children and themselves.
marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
discipline is all about modifying behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
over the years my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and beliefs.
say: as you know women deliver their babies at  different places – at their own homes, tbas homes, and health facilities.
is he a labor coach,  advocate or partner?
why? b) where can they go to get help in your community?
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best to help dads bond with their babies.
read more... 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner she is scared of me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen again -
do you think that men would be  interested in learning more about these issues?
read more... do you have to be at your baby's birth?
understanding something about those stages can  help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually  just a part of growing up.
read more... healing family conflicts families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems  that create conflict and stress.
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing,  cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
read more... dads play with kids can make a big difference
in most men, 15 to 45 million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only 400 survive after a man ejaculates.
skilled care at childbirth notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: where do women prefer to deliver?
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may threaten to tear your family apart.
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and life changing task.
it's my child - and i'm proud to be his dad!!!
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they  can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
c)   do you know what causes that problem?
read more... not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do pass through the same stages.
if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
how much does it cost?
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study,  published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t  “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a  life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
once the initial  settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
but not everyone feels the same.
why do you think women sometimes deliver their babies at home?
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!read more... waaaaah!!!
read more... stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm now than ever.
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children  who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for  the sake of the kids.
should they have this kind of discussion?
remember that as difficult as it may be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
the screaming and crying  will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved  rest.
good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their children.
yes, fathers are vulnerable to similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.
set aside time for yourself.
the registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
where do women prefer to deliver?
are you  worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?
married fathers is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married  to the mother of his child?
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word go:read more... is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a new single dad with children at home?
can women leave the house whenever they want after childbirth?
as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
at least one-third of all children will be part of a  stepfamily before they reach age 18.
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and especially fathers.
are there exceptions?
dealing with anger - your own and your child's divorce can bring out the worst in people.
~mark twain father! - to god himself we cannot give a holier name.
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set  the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than  what anyone else tells her!
read  more... staying together for the sake of the kids which is better for your kids?
situations of family and relationship violence impact  couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
two decades ago it was unusual for a  father to be there when his child was born.
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a poster.
how do men first know what happens during childbirth and the time just after?
but, it may be a while.
family therapy can help your family weather such storms.
read more... which is better for your kids?
family therapy can help your family weather  such storms.
why do  they like those programs?
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy  development of their children and that positive father involvement has a  beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
read  more... disciplining for dads one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate  discipline for their children.
in  it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on  when you don’t know what to do next.
read more... 5 myths of fatherhood
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope  with the divorce of their parents.
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
who is the decision-maker for delivery location and preparations for birth?
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may  threaten to tear your family apart.
this could mean that you're worried that  pregnancy will damage your sex life.
is there anything else that you’d like to tell me/ us about your experience?
do they ask women and their families to purchase any items or pay any  fees?
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be  thinking, feeling and needing from you.
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
storytelling made easy why tell stories?
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
that belief is of little use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
to help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
next time  you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their  granparents.
it would be helpful to hear more about these problems.
men are  even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses,  partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
read more... infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief, fear, guilt, shame.
how easy or difficult would it be to make these  kinds of plans?
communication channels notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: how do pregnant women get information and support from their household and community?
instead of backing the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
d)   what kinds of arrangements do they make if they decide to go  to a health facility?
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but  the rewards are great.
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way  to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
around here, are men ever away when their wives go into  labor?
for example, one daughter may receive love best  when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a  set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her  something.
there  have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on  children.
say: we talked about preparing for delivery,  and about giving birth.
about half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including chromosomal problems.
divorce can bring out the worst in people.
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self  control--we can't lose ours in the process.
that’s  exceedingly rare.
e. to explore husbands/male influentials’ knowledge and perceptions of problems, complications, and emergencies in birth and early postpartum, when and where they should be cared for, and perceptions of emergency care providers.
how soon after a woman gives birth can she first leave her house?
do you know what causes that problem?
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your  children.
do you think that women should go to a  health facility after they deliver to get a check-up for themselves?
what do family members do to help?
will you love your baby?
the birth - tips for dads
i really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day left me feeling empty.
it would be  helpful to hear more about these problems.
when are these arrangements made?
do you think that men should be involved in these kinds of preparations?
dads don't get a lot of credit for being soothing, nurturing types.
if work takes you away from  your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and  her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
the work of children is play.
if there is, i can't  imagine it.
other than friends and family, how do men learn about other health-related topics?
will labour go smoothly?
do men around here ever listen to the  radio?
read more... how long until we ...?
read more... prevention of hiv transmission to infants many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child  treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
as a dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may open a floodgate of dreams.
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting in an early miscarriage.
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing, cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
so the short  answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of  the expectant mother.
two decades ago it was unusual for a father to be there when his child was born.
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of  domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
dig where you stand - kids family history activity kids love talking!
i have watched this closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been separated and preparing for divorce.
activities for dads and kids playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
all children deserve a chance to grow up unafraid.
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily through the activities and time spent with your children.
you'd  be odd if you weren't afraid.
if yes: where are they usually (probe for migrant work, etc.)?
so, given  the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions  for tackling this important task successfully.
d)   what can happen to the woman who has this problem?
what would make it  easier for women and their families to make these kinds of plans?
common fertility problems for men blockages.
where do they usually assist deliveries – at their own homes or at women’s homes?
how do they treat the people who come with the woman to the health facility, like her family members or a tba?
yes, fathers are vulnerable to  similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can  become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.
read more... families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems that create conflict and stress.