i was thinking the worst, wondering whether they'd both  still be alive by the time i got to the hospital..."
read more... a good laugh helps break the tension.
you want to love and cherish her again.
do you recognise yourself in any of that?
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to  soothe your screaming newborn!!!
what are the difficult things?
will i ever sleep again?
children love their parents and want  to be with them.
read more... help your child cope with divorce many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
about 200 million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
things you definitely don’t want to expose your children to.
"stella was obviously in pain and could do with some help, but i just didn't know what i could do to be of use.
read more... dads hold up half the sky fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters  a lot for kids!
open communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
she is scared of me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen again - but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose it...'
in it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on when you don’t know what to do next.
that's one of the reasons  we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death  or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro  long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and  life changing task.
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope with the divorce of their parents.
below is a list of some behaviors that children should be protected from.
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do it
understanding something about those stages can help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually just a part of growing up.
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility  to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children  from adult conflicts.
in fact, it may be a major barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
so here are a few tips to help you make it  through those (short) nights.
whether or not your children say it or show it, you  can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around  it.
about  half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including  chromosomal problems.
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the  liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means  much more than the textbook definition.
read more... children's ways of love individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is  also very individual.
sit and read a book for 10 minutes.
"we'd been to antenatal classes and i knew i was supposed to keep my cool and ask all sorts of questions about what was being done and why," says ed, father of eight-month-old cameron.
men are even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses, partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
i'd say find out all you can about every scenario it's possible to envisage.
of course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
to anyone else about to become a father, i'd simply say: expect the  unexpected.
of  course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
do you want them to connect one heart to another?
as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be involved in your child's life.
if you feel anxious that too much is being expected of you, why not talk about having a second birth partner - a friend or family member, perhaps, or a paid doula - to be there too.
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!read more...
in the  twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard  many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
nina smith, an antenatal teacher with the national childbirth trust who's studied the role of men in the delivery room, says the hardest challenge is seeing your partner in pain and not being able to do anything about it.
play is "the work of children".
so why should they accept it from any other man?
activities with infants as your child grows older she will want different things from her  engagement with you.
read more... do you use domestic violence?
but during those bleary early weeks, when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out where to start.
"the staff were excellent but there was a ruthless efficiency about it  all for them, which was a bit of a shock for me alongside the emotion i was  feeling.
read more... many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
she studied a group of 131 children and  their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25  years.
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as  all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
read more... five commandments for today's family man two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the  proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
read more... is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a new single dad with children at home?
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other would be useless.
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your children.
that’s a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
what dads-to-be dream about could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
like any mystery,  the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining,  baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at  once...
the midwife had  some ideas but nothing seemed to be working - i felt lame, really." one of the most difficult things for dads to deal with is when events take  an unexpected turn: sometimes everything seems to change very quickly, with  doctors and other medical people pouring into the room and scary possibilities  being discussed.
yet, no parental  action has a greater impact on children.
when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a  challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
if there is, i can't imagine it.
creative stories are a chance to build a great and loving memory.
over the years  my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has  developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different  families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and  beliefs.
as a  dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may  open a floodgate of dreams.
it takes  special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for the sake of the kids.
if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in denial or not paying attention!
it won't stop the unexpected, and it won't mean you breeze through whatever happens.
after all,  we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in  the process.
if work takes you away from your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
can men get  something like the baby blues as well as women?
whether or not your children say it or show it, you can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around it.
managing your anger ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever  realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!
ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
non-violent relationships: a role for fathers good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they  lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their  children.
"of course there are things you can try, and  often it is small things that make a difference," she says.
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile environment of the vagina.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial  elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
read more... 10 dad-tested ways to soothe a crying baby waaaaah!!!
but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose  it...'
it's up to you talk about what you want what are the good things about being at the birth?
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear, you're only normal.
understand how a marriage can be rebuilt after an affair.
the  registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point  for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
it can cause an exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
read  more... listen to her - and then listen some more girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of  the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile  environment of the vagina.
i'd say find out what you need to know, and surround yourselves with supportive people.
i was thinking the worst, wondering whether they'd both still be alive by the time i got to the hospital..."
fathers play a critical role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from abuse and neglect.
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best  to help dads bond with their babies.
your family can be your greatest source of  support, comfort and love.
we must understand these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work effectively with fathers and families.
read more we have an explicit commitment to gender equity and the un convention on the rights of the child (crc).
however, when you are  away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
read on for some advice and reassurance that there is a sex life after baby!read more...
will your baby be born with ten  fingers and ten toes?
or maybe you've been dreaming about your grandparents?
if at all possible, join your partner in an antenatal course.
a father is the first man his daughter knows.
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a  daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
will your baby be born with ten fingers and ten toes?
she has four daughters, the youngest of whom was born in 2002.
whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are similar...
next time you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their granparents.
"but when the lights all went on and the doctor arrived and started saying we had to get into the theatre quick, my legs turned to jelly and i just prayed both caroline and our baby was going to get through this alive."
you want to love and cherish her  again.
read more... is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married to the mother of his child?
but it will mean you are more aware of the possibilities  involved in a labour and birth, and it could give you the confidence to try to  help your partner cope with contractions.
you haven't had a real conversation for weeks.
and even through attempts at reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
just seeing what your partner goes through can give you a new respect for her and help in dealing with frustrations after the birth that are inevitable as both adjust to this new life in the house.
read more... men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often from their dad.
i  really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day  left me feeling empty.
andrew, dad to four-week-old oliver, explains how tanya's longed-for low-tech delivery at a birth centre took a dramatic turn when her cervix failed to dilate fully.
quick discipline strategies a good laugh helps break the tension.
once the initial settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
read  more... how to adjust to life as a single father is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a  new single dad with children at home?
talk about what you want it's important to talk together as a couple about your expectations of the birth and about what a father's role is at the big event.
these hurdles may seem silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
the effects of divorce on children and how to cope
she is a regular contributor to the guardian newspaper and regularly writes for a number of parenting magazines.
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the  effects ofdivorce on children.
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed in this article.
read more... bonding with the new baby
"but when things  didn't move on enough the midwife said we'd have to transfer to the general  hospital 15 miles away.
you haven't had a real conversation  for weeks.
read more... children's expectations of you and your ex marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter  is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
or maybe you've been dreaming about your  grandparents?
there have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on children.
are you concerned that your behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
read more... i have been violent or abusive and i need help 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner she is scared of  me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen  again -
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in  harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
these hurdles may seem silly,  unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
counselling is a major  factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv  testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
you can also find other dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during and after divorce.
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you believe society expects of a male parent.
family therapy can help families  identify and resolve problems.
pending fatherhood can make you think about your family's roots.
should you stay together for the  sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your  kids?
and most  of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
read more... can men get the baby blues?
myths surrounding children and divorce
with time, you and your baby will develop your own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
there is growing evidence  that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that  positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
before the baby is born, you may find  that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that  they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
i had phoned my wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
but it was what emily wanted, and we did our research and found out the risks were negligible.
in a study of smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking mother).
do you want those words to have real meaning to your child?
in fact, it may be a major  barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
these days, for urban dads it's more unusual if he isn't there.
when we got to some road works the ambulance siren started up and the blue lights were flashing and they pulled on ahead, leaving me in the traffic jam.
what's that?read more...
it seems some parents can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for their children.
read more... be there for her!
as  we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
read more... it's up to you!
" -- philip "the key message is: be flexible.
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and  especially fathers.
what can i do to prepare to be at our baby's birth?
read more... sex and the new dad how long until we ...?
it is generally accepted that children learn both good and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
your family can be your greatest source of support, comfort and love.
but during those bleary early weeks,  when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out  where to start.
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of the date of birth.
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child development as motherhood!
what is the role of the father who is present at the birth of his child?
read more... how to be more involved with your baby
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you  believe society expects of a male parent.
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children from adult conflicts.
but they are not silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to fathers.
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your marriage.
i'd say find out what you need  to know, and surround yourselves with supportive people.
in fact just having the fallback of another birth partner is hugely helpful for some men.
to anyone else about to become a father, i'd simply say: expect the unexpected.
remember that as difficult as it may  be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of  their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
is he a labor coach, advocate or partner?
in most men, 15 to 45  million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only  400 survive after a man ejaculates.
and, when you consider the benefits, why not?
but it is certainly much harder, and  it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children  that he needs to.
if you feel anxious that too much is being expected of you, why not  talk about having a second birth partner - a friend or family member, perhaps,  or a paid doula - to be there too.
and even through attempts at  reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
" lots of dads say what they find tough in the early stages is knowing  exactly what they can do to help.
this could mean that you're worried that pregnancy will damage your sex life.
real dads play dolls is playing with dolls manly?
that’s exceedingly rare.
and most of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
" - andrew "emily had had a previous caesarean and the hospital doctor didn't agree she should have a home birth.
daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
divorce: your child's perspective children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during  and after divorce.
we support the importance of mothering and mothers’ rights to children, and we highlight the importance of parents working co-operatively for the interests of children.
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest  wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say,  "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?" read more...
"we'd been to antenatal classes and i knew i was supposed  to keep my cool and ask all sorts of questions about what was being done and  why," says ed, father of eight-month-old cameron.
single, separated and divorced fathers
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and grief.
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with  someone besides your partner?
fathers and smoking parental smoking is a significant issue.
creative stories are a chance to build  a great and loving memory.
"but when things didn't move on enough the midwife said we'd have to transfer to the general hospital 15 miles away.
that's one of the reasons we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and  grief.
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use  abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do  it
in the end the midwives  supported us and we got the delivery we wanted.
"the staff were excellent but there was a ruthless efficiency about it all for them, which was a bit of a shock for me alongside the emotion i was feeling.
for many couples, being together is what feels right.
she studied a group of 131 children and their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25 years.
and yet dads often feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge getting there.
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was  astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
facts about men's fertility men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
read more... individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is also very individual.
e. renkel it is much easier to become a father than to be one. ~kent
family therapy can help families identify and resolve problems.
our best solution for this natural by-product of humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
are you concerned that your  behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
are you worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?read more...
with time, you and your baby will develop your  own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
sharing the moment of birth of your child is a magical experience.
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly  stand to have the old man around.
what's your baby up to this month?
can men get something like the baby blues as well as women?
many dads describe hair-raising scenarios in which they feared for the  lives of their partner and unborn baby.
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to soothe your screaming newborn!!!
the screaming and crying will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved rest.
andrew, dad to four-week-old oliver,  explains how tanya's longed-for low-tech delivery at a birth centre took a  dramatic turn when her cervix failed to dilate fully.
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly stand to have the old man around.
it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than  to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child  development as motherhood!
there are times when too much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too hard.
for example, one daughter may receive love best when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her something.
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the  new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
do you want to use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your heartfelt affection for your children?
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear,  you're only normal.
you can also find other  dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply involves creating a new branch.
read more... disciplining for dads one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate  discipline for their children.
dads love to have fun with  their kids, at least the great ones do.
if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying  around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
when we got to some road works the ambulance siren  started up and the blue lights were flashing and they pulled on ahead, leaving  me in the traffic jam.
illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting  — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
so the short answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of the expectant mother.
dads love to have fun with their kids, at least the great ones do.
however, when you are away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
"it is much easier  to become a father than to be one."
our best solution for this natural by-product of  humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your  friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
read more by now you should have noticed changes in your fitness and strength as well as in your body.
but if you ask most dads, you'll find that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own special ways to soothe their babies.
ever felt that your anger was getting  the best of you?
be it gardening together,  singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the  ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help  them to develop into happy healthy children.
that’s  a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
we can work this out.
"i ended up feeling a bit of a spare  part," says andy.
if so, consider strengthening 'i love you' with the following suggestions.
dads don't get a lot of credit for  being soothing, nurturing types.
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts and heal wounds.
so here are a few tips to help you make it through those (short) nights.
and they love grandparents.
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only the father smokedread more...
new dads' tips - what you need to know "tanya was very keen on the birth centre, and i'm not saying it wasn't a good idea - but i wish i'd thought more about its limitations, and had some idea of what would happen if we needed to transfer to the general hospital.
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a  poster.
"stella was obviously in pain and could do with  some help, but i just didn't know what i could do to be of use.
and do consider hiring  a doula: we did, and it was like employing an angel!
counselling is a major factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
in a study of  smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months  old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking  mother).
it's not his fault -  huffington post uk (huffingtonpost.co.uk) being dad common fertility problems for men blockages.
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting  in an early miscarriage.
as your child grows older she will want different things from her engagement with you.
it is generally accepted that children learn both good  and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
open  communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and  patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
but it is certainly much harder, and it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children that he needs to.
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means much more than the textbook definition.
it's you she wants in the delivery room be there for her!
try to agree with your ex the following.
read on for some advice and reassurance that  there is a sex life after baby!
it takes special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be  controlled.
it can cause an  exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in  turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
if so, consider strengthening 'i love  you' with the following suggestions.
things you definitely don’t want to  expose your children to.
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but the rewards are great.
fortunately, most blended families are able  to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
(enfamil.com) labour q&a;'s solved by our expert - madeformums (madeformums.com) put your screaming baby down and walk away: the 10-minute video that could  cut ... - daily mail (fatherhoodworld.com) father school: step by step (engagingmen.net) zimbabwean hospitals should respect the rights of women (kubatanablogs.net) mums are upset about dads having 'baby blinkers'?
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the effects ofdivorce on children.
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than what anyone else tells her!read more...
"it was really scary: i wasn't allowed in the ambulance
whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
infection, injury, congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use  violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
will you be a good dad?
as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be  involved in your child's life.
read more... one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate discipline for their children.
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply  involves creating a new branch.
when an affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
new dads' tips - what you need to know talk about what you want
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed  in this article.
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts  and heal wounds.
raising your daughter every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his  daughter’s life!
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your  marriage.
read more... how your child's behaviour changes as they grow not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do  pass through the same stages.
yet, no parental action has a greater impact on children.
situations of family and relationship violence impact couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
a small percentage of men have a blockage in  their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate  fluid.
at least one-third of all children will be part of a stepfamily before they reach age 18.
dad's at a distance - working away relationships with children are much like plants, they need  constant nourishing!
there are strong physical and emotional  impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
the professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
after another process called capacitation (an explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization and conception.
do you want those words to have real meaning to  your child?
below is a list of some behaviors that  children should be protected from.
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily  through the activities and time spent with your children.
they can guide you where to go.
after all, we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with someone besides your partner?
preparation is  crucial.
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new coping skills and improve how your family works together.
that belief is of little  use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
there are many times i just don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get from my girls.
and don't keep putting off reading about labour and what to expect - it really does make a difference if you understand what happens during each stage of labour by the time you get to the delivery room.
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other  would be useless.
registering baby's birth
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of  the date of birth.
read more... marriage counseling
then discuss it with your child or children.
"everything was fine for a few hours, with the contractions building up and tanya coping well, and i thought we were going to sail through," he says.
could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
read more... manage your portion sizes and take the following tips into consideration.
the list of potential adjustments is long, and it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
lack of  sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers  and mothers...
many dads i meet share this mistaken idea:read more...
after another process called capacitation (an  explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough  outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization  and conception.
before the baby is born, you may find that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
and yet dads often  feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge  getting there.
william klatte has written an insightful book calledlive-away dads.
be it gardening together, singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help them to develop into happy healthy children.
sometimes the poorest man leaves his children the richest inheritance.
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word  go: read more... dads play with kids can make a big difference
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say, "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?"read more...
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
when an  affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed  — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
~ kent nerburn extensions do you have to be at your baby's birth?
instead of backing  the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
i have watched this  closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been  separated and preparing for divorce.
lack of sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers and mothers...
what are the good things about being at the birth?
wordsworth read more... boxers or briefs?
read more... it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
the adjustments for dad, mum and kids are major.
in some measures, father-love is more important.
but they are not silly, unnecessary,  or insignificant to fathers.
but if you ask most dads, you'll find  that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own  special ways to soothe their babies.
what is the role of  the father who is present at the birth of his child?
two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
the  professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence  suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is  as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.”
they can guide you  where to go.
read more... how to share in your partner's pregnancy face your fear.
we must understand  these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work  effectively with fathers and families.
fortunately, most blended families are able to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first,  that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only  the father smoked read more...
i had phoned my  wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
the midwife had some ideas but nothing seemed to be working - i felt lame, really."
in fact just having the fallback of another  birth partner is hugely helpful for some men.
to  help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william  wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
discipline is all about modifying  behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
in the twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
the list of potential adjustments is long, and  it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no heart-to-hearts.
girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
the birth - tips for dads if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in  denial or not paying attention!
she's not made of porcelain!
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation:read more...
this page contains  resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
there are strong physical and emotional impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship  with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open  but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often  from their dad.
there are times when too  much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too
like any mystery, the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining, baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at once...
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first, that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
read more... many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
children love their parents and want to be with them.
daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are  similar...
but it was what emily wanted, and we did  our research and found out the risks were negligible.
" -- nina smith written by joanna moorhead joanna moorhead is a journalist and author  specialising in birth and parenting.
" -- nina smith written by joanna moorhead joanna moorhead is a journalist and author specialising in birth and parenting.
so i had to go  in the car on my own.
fathers play a critical  role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from  abuse and neglect.
dealing with miscarriage miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
these days, for urban dads it's  more unusual if he isn't there.
there are many times i just  don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in  the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working  away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get  from my girls.
and do consider hiring a doula: we did, and it was like employing an angel!
they let their  daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the  norm.
one of the most difficult things for dads to deal with is when events take an unexpected turn: sometimes everything seems to change very quickly, with doctors and other medical people pouring into the room and scary possibilities being discussed.
read more... is playing with dolls manly?
" - andrew "emily had had a previous caesarean and the hospital doctor didn't  agree she should have a home birth.
making the most of visits with the kids many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an  often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with  their children.
they let their daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the norm.
stepfathering stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a  situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
read more... every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his daughter’s life!
read more... five worries about fathering our daughters
often you can cut the umbilical  cord, or just hand the baby to mum, holding a newborn shows you how fragile  that life is can help you bond immediately with your child - important for your  future relationship.
read more... dads and breastfeeding breast is best!!!
sharing the moment  of birth of your child is a magical experience.
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
find ways to keep anger under  control as you work with your children.
wordsworthread more... men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
here's how it's done:read more... relationships with children are much like plants, they need constant nourishing!
whether it's you,  your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family  therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
and don't keep putting off reading about labour and  what to expect - it really does make a difference if you understand what  happens during each stage of labour by the time you get to the delivery room.
this page contains resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
should you stay together for the sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your kids?
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or  excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
children in blended families may at first  resist the many changes they face.
"but it  takes confidence to try them, and that isn't easy - especially for the  first-time father.
blended families stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm  now than ever.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
just seeing what your partner goes through can give you a  new respect for her and help in dealing with frustrations after the birth that  are inevitable as both adjust to this new life in the house.
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your  shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
if you are like almost every other new father you are not alone!
whether it's you, your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
infection, injury,  congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
it's important to talk together as a couple  about your expectations of the birth and about what a father's role is at the  big event.
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be thinking, feeling and needing from you.
then discuss it  with your child or children.
read more... tell your kids you love them!
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new  coping skills and improve how your family works together.
stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
do you want to  use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your  heartfelt affection for your children?
a small percentage of men have a blockage in their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate fluid.
children in blended families may at first resist the many changes they face.
it seems some parents  can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for  their children.
for many couples, being together is what feels  right.
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study, published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
about 200  million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
you'd be odd if you weren't afraid.
so i had to go in the car on my own.
parental smoking is a significant issue.
i'm in control so you are safe.
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to  the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that  dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children  and themselves.
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no  heart-to-hearts.
many dads describe hair-raising scenarios in which they feared for the lives of their partner and unborn baby.
the various sections on this page should give you some basic reassurance!read more...
the various sections on this page  should give you some basic reassurance!
playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children and themselves.
marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
discipline is all about modifying behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
here's how it's done: read more...
over the years my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and beliefs.
is he a labor coach,  advocate or partner?
"i ended up feeling a bit of a spare part," says andy.
preparation is crucial.
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best to help dads bond with their babies.
read more... do you have to be at your baby's birth?
understanding something about those stages can  help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually  just a part of growing up.
read more... healing family conflicts families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems  that create conflict and stress.
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing,  cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
"everything was fine  for a few hours, with the contractions building up and tanya coping well, and i  thought we were going to sail through," he says.
"but it takes confidence to try them, and that isn't easy - especially for the first-time father."
in most men, 15 to 45 million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only 400 survive after a man ejaculates.
read more... waaaaah!!!
read more... many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with their children.
but it will mean you are more aware of the possibilities involved in a labour and birth, and it could give you the confidence to try to help your partner cope with contractions.
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may threaten to tear your family apart.
it's my child - and i'm proud to be his dad!!!
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and life changing task.
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they  can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
read more... not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do pass through the same stages.
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study,  published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t  “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a  life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm now than ever.
once the initial  settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
"but when the  lights all went on and the doctor arrived and started saying we had to get into  the theatre quick, my legs turned to jelly and i just prayed both caroline and  our baby was going to get through this alive."
tips on stress set aside time for yourself.
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
but not everyone feels the same.
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word go:read more...
infidelity: mending your marriage after an affair infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief,  fear, guilt, shame.
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children  who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for  the sake of the kids.
some  courses are for couples, others are for women but have a couples class -- do  make sure you attend this.
remember that as difficult as it may be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
the screaming and crying  will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved  rest.
good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their children.
yes, fathers are vulnerable to similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.
set aside time for yourself.
the registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
are you  worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation: read more...
read more... ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
she is a regular contributor to the guardian newspaper  and regularly writes for a number of parenting magazines.
married fathers is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married  to the mother of his child?
as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
at least one-third of all children will be part of a  stepfamily before they reach age 18.
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and especially fathers.
dealing with anger - your own and your child's divorce can bring out the worst in people.
~mark twain father! - to god himself we cannot give a holier name.
related articles freaking out ... just a little (newsroomtonursery.wordpress.com)
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set  the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than  what anyone else tells her!
read  more... staying together for the sake of the kids which is better for your kids?
situations of family and relationship violence impact  couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
two decades ago it was unusual for a  father to be there when his child was born.
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a poster.
but, it may be a while.
read more... which is better for your kids?
family therapy can help your family weather such storms.
family therapy can help your family weather  such storms.
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy  development of their children and that positive father involvement has a  beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
in  it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on  when you don’t know what to do next.
read more... 5 myths of fatherhood
in the end the midwives supported us and we got the delivery we wanted.
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope  with the divorce of their parents.
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may  threaten to tear your family apart.
this could mean that you're worried that  pregnancy will damage your sex life.
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be  thinking, feeling and needing from you.
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
storytelling made easy why tell stories?
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
that belief is of little use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
to help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
next time  you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their  granparents.
men are  even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses,  partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
read more... infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief, fear, guilt, shame.
instead of backing the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
some courses are for couples, others are for women but have a couples class -- do make sure you attend this.
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but  the rewards are great.
there  have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on  children.
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way  to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
for example, one daughter may receive love best  when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a  set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her  something.
about half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including chromosomal problems.
divorce can bring out the worst in people.
it won't stop the unexpected, and it won't mean you breeze through  whatever happens.
"of course there are things you can try, and often it is small things that make a difference," she says.
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self  control--we can't lose ours in the process.
that’s  exceedingly rare.
monday, 11 august 2008  08:00  administrator tweet 1 of 2 next it's up to you!
read more... illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
new dads' tips - what you need to know "tanya was very keen on  the birth centre, and i'm not saying it wasn't a good idea - but i wish i'd  thought more about its limitations, and had some idea of what would happen if  we needed to transfer to the general hospital.
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your  children.
she has four daughters, the youngest of  whom was born in 2002.
will you love your baby?
often you can cut the umbilical cord, or just hand the baby to mum, holding a newborn shows you how fragile that life is can help you bond immediately with your child - important for your future relationship.
i really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day left me feeling empty.
dads don't get a lot of credit for being soothing, nurturing types.
i'd say find out all you can  about every scenario it's possible to envisage.
if work takes you away from  your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and  her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!read more... families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems that create conflict and stress.
be willing to try something, but be ready to accept if it's not what's needed, and don't mind if your partner's reaction is to push you away.
if there is, i can't  imagine it.
will labour go smoothly?
read more... how long until we ...?
read more... prevention of hiv transmission to infants many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child  treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
do it!read more... 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner
as a dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may open a floodgate of dreams.
lots of dads say what they find tough in the early stages is knowing exactly what they can do to help.
nina smith, an antenatal teacher with  the national childbirth trust who's studied the role of men in the delivery  room, says the hardest challenge is seeing your partner in pain and not being  able to do anything about it.
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting in an early miscarriage.
read more... fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters a lot for kids!
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing, cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
so the short  answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of  the expectant mother.
two decades ago it was unusual for a father to be there when his child was born.
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of  domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
dig where you stand - kids family history activity kids love talking!
i have watched this closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been separated and preparing for divorce.
activities for dads and kids playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
all children deserve a chance to grow up unafraid.
be willing to try something, but be  ready to accept if it's not what's needed, and don't mind if your partner's  reaction is to push you away.
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily through the activities and time spent with your children.
you'd  be odd if you weren't afraid.
so, given  the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions  for tackling this important task successfully.
read more... face your fear.
yes, fathers are vulnerable to  similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can  become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.
many dads i meet  share this mistaken idea: read more...