the sensory input of my fingers, feeling the paper, the noisy crinkle as i flip to another page, the smell of fresh ink and newsprint, even the short time memory of my journey out to the street to retrieve my own copy all add up to a feeling of satisfaction.
read more from nasa here.
it's basically a small hydropower plant in a man-made rapids.
nh republicans for climate chairman is named farrell seiler, and he's giving a talk titled "new hampshire: birthplace of the modern windfarm" which i assume will be about crotched mountain.
it's like a pub party with uber-geeks.
it is powered by biofuels that can be produced using cots technologies, but which for which no doe research is required.
i'll have to shake the readership tree a bit, see if i  can get more action january 12, 2011 discovery center: uses of light beams super stellar friday: "teen night: communication on a light beam" january 14th @ 7 pm explore lasers, light and color.
there is a similar method used by some heating systems called an 'outdoor reset control'.
a friend works in a yogurt shop.
the telegraph is sending a photographer.
instead, the river will run faster, creating problems downstream.
it's being screened tomorrow (march 2) in washington d.c. as part of  national invasive awareness week.
david pogue of the ny times posted an intereting blog yesterday, in which he noted how the move toward "cloud computing" will collide with increasing data caps by net providers.
the maine coast had a great die off of eel grass and the loss of habitat caused a drop in fish and lobsters for a while, but they came back, just the same as before.
fortunately, it has subsided so that only in quiet environments do i even notice it.
if you would like to attend, so that we will have a rough idea on head count.
this sounds like a joke but is pretty accurate.
industrial composting is a lot more complicated than my backyard piles of stuff my compost piles (one yard waste, one food waste -
wonderful quote in that post, by the way: quipped former apple executive, jean-louis gassee, when he saw jobs park in a restricted spot: "i never realized those spaces were for the emotionally handicapped.
cellulosic biofuel company mascoma gets a big buy-in new hampshire's best bet in the long race to develop biofuel from plant  cellulose rather than from plant sugars (e.g., from wood chips instead of corn  kernels) is mascoma corp., created by a couple of dartmouth professors, one of  whom (lee lynd) went to college with me.
here's the youtube link for the recording, titled "precalc rap".
i know that we went through a few barrels of sardine heads and tails to stuff our bait bags.
boy, is that a gigantic place; i swear some of the runs are wider than runs at pat's peak are tall.
they've found the joy of on line funny stories, photos and videos.
the finding, which overturns 40 years of theory, provides insight into the fundamental structure of the heliosphere, which in turn helps scientists understand similar structures or "astrospheres" that surround other star systems throughout the cosmos.
nh uses more natural  gas than coal, overall (2005 figures showed natural gas at 16 percent of total  energy use, coal was 10%,according to the state; nuclear was 22%)
people who are 40 to 80 years old should have recognized and applied the thinking process sometimes in their life.
judging from the book, it's much harder than you would think, particularly since digs have to take into account extinct species.
in the heart of canada's capital, ottawa, they use dynamite to blow up ice dams in the rivers that run through the city, to prevent flooding when spring melting begins.
you might have noticed that sockets installed in a hospital are installed with the ground opening up, opposite from those in a typical home.
they are worried about interference with the gps spectrum, which is adjacent to the l band.
high-level chess is an insular world and the league is pretty publicity-shy, or more accurately just doesn't t care about publicity.
10 below is good invasive-bug-killing weather jan. 24 6:50 a.m.
" i have a telegraph story today about the region's nuclear power industry, in which i make the lazy statement that new england doesn't have earthquakes.
well, maybe news came out earlier this week that a couple of utility companies want to build a roughly 1-gigawatt high voltage dc power line from mid maine, down the coast to eastern massachusetts, to carry energy from maine's wind farms as well as hydro and nuclear power in eastern canada.
how to put out a fire: spray it with liquid manure the union-leader has a great story about a new hampshire farmer who extinguished the fire in a burning truck, one that was too far from the road for a fire pumper to get to, by spraying it with 15,000 gallons of liquified cow manure from his storage area.
read the whole post, which has a couple cool photos, here.
there's a long-abandoned gravel quarry near me that is growing back ... it would be perfect.
check out the story here and cross your fingers that they're on to something.
as for the pumpkin carving, how about this descriptive line to whet the appetite: "lasers and cnc machines may be involved."
"we think that an accelerated beam of particles is the source of the high-energy radiation from the crab pulsar, but the structure of that beam and the mechanism by which the radiation is generated is not entirely clear," says mission lead scientist mark mcconnell, a professor in the ssc and chair of the unh department of physics.
(my column has  disappeared in a web system switchover, or i'd show it to you as well).
an amazing satellite photo of "cloud streets" stretching over the ocean
you put it on top of  each new snowfall, so that you can measure the amount of the next snowfall.
those large slices of history are invaluable to determine if our present weather patterns are a normal deviation lasting just a few years or is indicative of a long term slide toward global warming.
ice-breaking on maine rivers i didn't realize that the coast guard regularly sends ice-breaking ships in the kennebeck river and other maine rivers - to the point that the ap story ( read it here) describes it as "a sure sign of spring.
we must have sprinted the whole way from alaska.
it covers not just oldies-but-goodlies like ghosts and the nazca lines, but also cattle mutilation and klerksdorp spheres (winners of the fiercely competitive "least sexy name in geology" award).
april 09, 2011 'crazy breathing' and mystery footsteps - why, it must be ghosts!
only coos county in the state's northern tip falls below the highest ranking of expectancy.
both bands were crushed andabraded suggesting that the legs had been run over, but probably bysomething like a bike rather than a vehicle.
the other, however, was oak - because they drop their leaves last, so they had maximum surface area to hold onto snow.
the start of nasa's press release about alan shepard's 1961 flight.
the ny times has a big story about the drought affecting much of the south, and i was surprised by this item: in texas, some cities are experiencing blackouts because airborne deposits of salt and chemicals are building up on power lines, triggering surges that shut down the system.
"the science is the next step after the on-going cluster mission and the upcoming nasa magnetospheric multi-scale mission (mms) that unh is also involved in.
as a result of this malfunction, the operator of each carriage lost control of the horses.
so i can't judge its effectiveness one way or the other.
the finalists will also be awarded the product of the year judges' award at the event.
in nh, the number of child leukemia cases over the past 15 years is so small that it can't be divvied up among our 9 counties, due to fears that individuals' privacy might be accidentally violated, so i can't take a look at whether the rates differ widely among parts of the state with fewer power lines.
companies that have won the product of the year award over the past five years were nanocomp technologies, ultravision, insight tech gear, holase, incorporated, and sky-skan.
here's a telegraph story presenting the unfiltered arguments of the "vaccines made my kid sick" folks at a recent legislative hearing.
that's a 25 percent difference (or 33 percent, if you prefer).
if you spook it at the right time, it will drop the prety outside the nest.
(above is a screenshot of their online output panel, which you can see at http://www.psnh.com/renewableenergy/about-psnh/solar-at-energy-park.aspx)
scientists know how this species responds to pollution, predators, day and night, making it an important model for ecological and evolutionary research.
photo by don himselthat gauzy stuff in trees each autum are woven by webworms, which are really moth caterpillars.
"read the whole story here.
if no one has a majority after one candidate is dropped, the new last-place candidate is dropped and his or her second-choice votes are added to the first-choice totals.
talks about a small test i did on the local freeway, driving in cruise control at 60 mph and then 70 mph to quantify the difference in gas mileage.
the article doesn't call it excrement, though.
(they're not in n.h. yet, but it has made it to new york state and probably will be here eventually.)
but some folks love it, especially in maine, where the inventor was born.
it is becoming a real problem in northern new england, spreading up from the southern parts of the region.
happy 63 (binary) day update: egypt closed the pyramids "following rumors that groups would try to hold spiritual ceremonies on the site at 11:11 a.m. on nov. 11, 2011."
a cryptozoology (bigfoot, etc.) museum in maine - who knew?
(you can't outsource killing squash bugs or stipping old, dead canes from the raspberry patch.)â
you can read my story, with a nifty photo of a bucket truck in mid-installation,right here.
(read the whole story, which has lots of detail, here.)
for more information, contact david neils, des senior biologist, at (603)  271-8865 or david.neils@des.nh.gov .
i mention this to lead into an excellent item from the nasa earth observatory showing a picture illustration snow cover in the us throughout the month of january.
four-sided traps gave them the most surface area, but manufacturing three-sided prisms was far cheaper.
(spotted via this globe article.)
from the article: the heroic phase of space exploration, with chiselled-jawed astronauts venturing where no man has gone before, inspiring schoolchildren and defending democracy (or socialism), is now a thing of the past.
but google is pissed off and  ramping down the company's results manually.
there are so many variables in anadramous fish (spawn in fresh water, live in sea water) - the trips up and down rivers (the merrimack is blocked by three large dams), the need for clean rivers to spawn in, the rising chance of getting caught at sea, higher temperatures changing ecosystems - that it's very very tough to make it work these days.
i hope to do my own story, too, but darmouth did an excellent job without me (darn them).
march 31, 2011 burning heating oil as a mist raises efficiency (allegedly)
august 4, 2011 automated fraud detection worked for our credit card we got a machine-voice call last night from discover card, checking on recent purchases made on my wife's credit card.
from the story: for the past 15,000 years, georges bank has served as a protective barrier for cape cod, blocking large ocean waves coming from the southeast.
the species was found inhabiting hewes brook, a tributary of the connecticut river in lyme.
march 27, 2011 i forgot about earth hour last night, and i bet you did, too earth hour, the annual event in which people are supposed to ramp down lights for one hour to save electricity and make a gesture toward energy efficiency, drew even less attention that usual around here.
the plan is for monthly cafes; the june talk is titled "the future of food."
it also puts it just about in the top 10 states, according to thesolar energy industries association as reported by the ny times' green blog.
on the other hand, the city doesn't have moving sidewalks (the ones in logan don't count) or efficient pneumatic tube delivery systems.
the advantage of approval voting, mcguire said, is that the state and  towns wouldn't have to redesign their ballots and people wouldn't have to  change their voting habits, since the current method of voting for just one  candidate per seat would still be allowed.
and you thought only campaign ads did that.
we have no idea how the card's number got swiped; the card itself hasn't been lost.
… what could be more loving then creating something from the heart, and sharing it with those around you.
january 17, 2011 does it rain more in nh or in neighboring states?
they have no choice: it's impossible, in the end, to run the coyotes out of town.
" equipment makers don't have an endless supply of time to get it right.
the two will appear at unh in durham at 3 p.m. and at st. anselm at 6 p.m. september 20, 2011 no âgenius' grants in nh, three from harvard (and boy, that branding was pure genius)
speaking of electric cars, here's an object lesson: a startup trying to make a highway-ready electric three-wheeler has collapsed, taking $500,000 in funding from a california city with it.
reports of cougars observed in the wild examined during the review process described cougars of other subspecies, often south american subspecies, that had been held in captivity and had escaped or been released to the wild, as well as wild cougars."
politico/u-l item here.
i have preliminary evidence suggesting that even these covert cameras ultimately affect the behavior of some wildlife species, but this question deserves further study.
no, she can't do that.
and there's not much hope they'll get any smarter  anytime soon."
down in texas they are suffering through a drought and heat wave of near-biblical proportions, with triple digits for months on end.
note that the us isn't saying we should stop adding fluoride to drinking  water supplies, only that we should add less of it.
the online textbook was so much cheaper than the rest of my books and, in some cases, it is better than my hard copies ," said first-year student chris mcphee of marshfield, mass., who is taking gittell's class.
you can read all about it in my story here.
dr. steven j. davis, executive vice president for applied sciences at physical sciences, inc., will lead the activities and discussion.
parts of africa are demonstrating how wireless phones are leapfrogging the system that we built in the western world, bringing voice and data to remote places, and to poor people in cities, a zillion times faster than the traditional wires-on-poles route.
after a few hours, 2 to 8 hours depending on the amount of rust, the part is removed, flushed off and polished with steel wool.
the infestation has now led to a staggering 30,000 trees being destroyed; the story calls it the biggest alb site in north america.
nature paper that it reports about is here.
it used to be that every time we went to the store (which is pretty often, because what's more fun than visiting a hardware store?)
even better, my first assignment was on the uss norton sound, a seaplane tender converted to a missile test ship.
a little calculus and some historical estimates of world population and life expectancy led the site 1000memories to estimate that 56 billion human beings have lived since we evolved from ape-like creatures 200,000 years ago.
in other words, what was once a problem for our great great-grandchildren is one our children could confront.
but there are other professional sports in boston beyond football, basketball, baseball and hockey - notably the boston blitz, members of the u.s. chess league.
there isn't much to go bad in these.
it got $40-some-off million in federal alternative-energy grants and loans, so expect more hollering akin to what is happening with solyndra.
the value of oysters - for food and for the environment my column in the telegraph today is about a couple of people applying to open or expand oyster farms in our coastal area.
here's the story, complete with some really cool historic photos.
the next cafe, on wednesday, oct. 19, will dicuss "digital privacy: is it possible?
if only more news outlets had reporters like that!
they all take the  point of view that only ignorance or cupidity would lead somebody to disagree  with their strongly held belief - but that's a point of view taken by most of  humanity regarding most topics, so it can't be held against them.
in milton, new hampshire, near the maine border about 50 miles from the ocean, people found a dead, six-footblue shark discarded in the woods.
here's the page where we record results, on the souhegan, merrimack and nashua rivers.
wear protective clothing 2.
they usually came with promises of bad luck, examples enclosed of people who broke the chain suffering loss or even death.
this idea has been opposed by folks who are suspicious that it will be used to increase their rates somehow or carry privacy concerns, which is reasonable, and by folks who think the wireless signal will make them sick or do other weird stuff, which is not reasonable.
he certainly didn't give up, eventually writing to jefferson davis and making drawings of what looks like aradial piston-powered engine.
miss usa and teaching evolution in school - reality, and parody hurricane planning at the paper hasn't given me time to find local material today, but i do have time to (a) cringe and (b) laugh at the two videos linked below.
it's being screened tomorrow (march 2) in washington d.c. as part of national invasive awareness week.
if you think the electoral college is a bad way to elect presidents, then you should also think that counting games won, rather than total goals scored, is a bad way to decide the winner of the stanley cup, or any multiple-game series.
i would row and he would tell stories about his life and the way things were when he was growing up.
smart grid, including meters, get voter ok in burlington, vt.
since then they've multiplied and their range has extended so far that there is both a spring and fall turkey hunting season now, and it's no longer unusual to see a flock crossing even a busy urban road.
for my money, the most depressing scientific finding from increased co2 in the atmosphere is that it will make poison ivy itchier and faster growing (as reported here).
it has been found in two of the state's three known bat hibernation sites,reports ap.
the most common early symptom of lyme disease is an expanding red rash that occurs at the site of the tick bite within 3-32 days after being bitten.
while some researchers believe there are discernable decade patterns to the  oscillation, others say a good measurement record dates back only to 1950.
maine cdc has numerous educational materials available on our website at http://www.maine.gov/dhhs/boh/ddc/epi/vector-borne/lyme/index.shtml free, fact-filled science cafe new hampshire coming to concord would you like to talk about complicated subjects with people who understand the details, instead of just listening to advocates who rant and rave about their pre-conceived notions, or being subjected to somebody as lame as (shudder) a journalist?
in other words, listen to nh fish and game and put away those bird feeders until later this summer!
several ofthese died in accidents near the nest site, and eight others turned up inroxbury, ma; rochester, ma; weymouth, ma; plum island, newbury, ma; greenairport, providence, ri; kinderhook, ny; kennedy airport, ny: and one female was found nesting on the mid-hudson bridge, ny in 2003.
oily rags should be stored in a sealed container or in water, in well-ventilated spots, or laid out flat (not bunched up) to dry.
it reminds me of an interview i saw once with (if i recall correctly)
it's at the portsmouth harbor events & conference center november 13, 2011 doesn't feel like winter, as big ski resorts tiptoe into opening killington, which long prided itself as being open first and shutting last in the northeast, has a tiny amount of advanced terrain open -600 vertical feet - while maine's gigantic sugarloafhas turned on the snow guns.
it's a lot better than naval jelly, coke or muriatic acid.
finally, check this ny times article talking about freakishly warm weather  in the arctic and freakishly cold/snowy weather in the us and europe.
but i do have to ponder the fact that i have previously won awards* for writing stories.
discovery center: update on those scads of exoplanets we've spotted
they do some other cool stuff, too, including a project called "determining fisher distribution in the rocky mountains."
the reporter wrote up this non-news, the item was carried along on the internet's wave foam, encountered by people who didn't realize this information and/or misunderstood it, and nonsense ensued.
unlike their other recent closures, the removal of + was made without any public announcement.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/thermoelectric_cooling the advantages of this type of dehumidifier are, very quiet operation, usually just a computer fan to move the air across the cold junction.
the dispute is also a reminder of how much humans alter the landscape, as a matter of course.
if a cooperative (a form of governance that brings out the cranky nay-saying liberal in many people) in vermont (a state where "environmentalist" is most people's middle name, often preceded by "extreme") favors a big wind project in its own neighborhood, then perhaps the environmental concerns aren't as widely held as it sometimes seems.
i'll have to get more serious about it tonight.
i even fell back on a lame "laymen can't really judge computer models and have to trust the experts" argument.
one of the more interesting votes will be in little antrim, which is proposing some wind tower control ordinances that would either help or hinder development of big (more than 100 kw) wind towers, depending on who you talk to.
that's an example of "imitative magic", which is also reflected when you stab pins into voodoo dolls that like like your enemy.
september, 14, 2011 steripen ... looks like magic, but it kills germs in water.
august 31, 2011 utility: a 'smart grid' could reduce storm outages a two-way power grid that notifies utilities of outages and power anomalies - part of the "smart grid" proposal that we hear so much about - could reduce outages due to storms, or at least reduce the amount of time needed to fix outages.
the tarp is held in place by a few of these magnets.
"we just hang out with nice people who let you use their plugs," said hollis resident juli jasinski, who had plugged her cellphone into ellis' power strip.
astonishing photos from satellites have become almost old-hat, but this one (spotted at nasa, via its twitter feed) boggled my mind.
the device consisted of a 600-watt amplifier, or about the same power as a high-end car stereo system.
may 30, 2011 space fan watches the end of the shuttle era, and you can watch too nashuan aaron cunningham, a real space geek, is going down to cape canaveral to watch the final rollout of a space shuttle, and he's going to post items about it at a special telegraph page, here: http://www.nashuatelegraph.com/topics/shuttlerollout this uses a program called coveritlive that the telegraph has tried a few times, most notably for covering trials - it is a sort of web-embedded mix of twitter, tumblr and a blog.
do you really need a breathing apparatus to go down in a sewer, some people asked me.
but don't get too optimistic: unh magazine has a good cover piece on continuing research by barry rock about how climate change is slowly making foliage season worse:read it here.
you can read it here, and it's worth the click through.
earlier this week he died, at age 90.
familarity breeds contempt.
the unh scope team has been given the go-ahead to conduct further work on the imsa instrument.
burlington, vermont, had this system for three (i think) elections, but ditched it after the man who came in second in the tally of first-place votes was named mayor via subsequent calculations in 2009.
as of today, you can read 25 articles (not counting classifieds or the home page) per month for free.
it was spotted in 2006 in new york state, and is now found throughout new england and from western kentucky to ontario to nova scotia.
" small wind power for homes is a dud in n.h.
portland's mayor hasn't been directly elected for years, and a number of candidates are in the running.
does winning an ig nobel help, or hurt, a scientist?
this is, by far, my  favorite example: 138, years it would take to spend a trillion dollars at hart's turkey farm  restaurant in manchester or meredith if every n.h. resident devoured the  regular turkey plate every day during that stretch.
from the posting: "during the sixteen years the  station was in operation, the shoreline moved 150 feet and began undercutting  the two seaward towers.
when i was in the navy, we would sometimes be paid in two dollar bills, usually when the local populace grumbled about all those military people creating problems in town.
there will be, alas, no raffles for low-earth-orbit trips, but it sounds pretty cool.
(actually, they wrote it all in caps, so it reads like it should be hybrid/lev vehicles only, but i don't think there are any cars named after the former currency of belgium.)
"logistically it went very smoothly.
whereas those two missions use four spacecraft to study the physical processes at one scale â a larger scale for cluster and a very small scale for mms â scope will look at the cross-scale aspects of these processes." says kistler of eos and the department of physics.
among the things that are ending immediately are dial-up service, usenet news and uucp, which the wiki notes, sadly, was "our first service.
keep developing land and messing with my migratory patterns so that my food sources become even scarcer.
a tribute to professor william lipscomb, 1976 nobel laureate in chemistry, who performed exuberantly in nearly all the previous ig nobel prize ceremonies.
to raise or not to raise - windshield wipers when you're parked, that is a couple of winters ago i posted about whether it was a good idea to raise  your windshield wipers when you parked your car during a snowstorm (as shown in  the file photo here).
the lobster population off the coast of maine (and new hampshire, of course, although we don't have much of a coast) are doing very well - so well, in fact, that lobstering now makes up an incredible 80 percent of maine's seafood income, according tothis ny time story.
mcconnell notes that comptel was the first gamma-ray detector of its kind to fly in space.
check this column by robert cringley, which also talks about how the current disaster is much less bad than chernobyl was.
at the discovery center in concord.
september 12, 2011 another newspaper-online business idea: divide (the site) and profit (hopefully)
april 26, 2011 learning while commuting isn't so easy
http://www.clr.pdx.edu/projects/volunteer/zebra.php is there any hope of keeping zebra mussels from spreading?
i wrote up a proposal for more ups along with links to battery replacement companies and prices.
in the u.s., at least, nighttime temperatures have risen more in the past decade than daytime temperatures.
if symptoms develop, call your physician.
a screenshot is shown at left.
part of  that is recycling, which has gone up about 1,500 tons a year over that time,  but most of it appears to be the recession - we buy less junk that we toss out.
here are the most interesting paragraphs of the sheet: ezra kelley and william nye early in the nineteenth century, while experimenting with various fatty oils for use in clocks and chronometers, ezra kelley (1798-1895) a new bedford clockmaker, came by chance upon a byproduct of some now forgotten whaling voyage, the head oil from a dolphin caught for food or sport.
i have previously mentioned the triangular purple boxes seen hanging in some trees, which are lures for emerald ash borers, put out to detect the leading edge of infestations.
even a coal-fired-power-plant-powered electric car is good nothing local this morning, so i'll link to this story, which discusses a swiss life-cycle analysis of electric and gas-powered cars.
march 3, 2011 discover center friday: 'cosmology and future telescopes' at the mcauliffee-shepard discovery center tomorrow, march 4, a  presentation of planetarium showtonight's sky will be held at 7 p.m.,  followed by a talk from martin ratcliffe, writer for astronomy magazine and  former president of the international planetarium society.
it's called skepticamp, a mix of high-speed university lectures, intellectual magic shows and do-it-yourself curiosity, designed to inform and illustrate about aspects of silliness-puncturing skepticism.
they do come right back looking for more food as soon as the light goes off them.
the rollout is part of an expansion into a bunch of places, including more of northeastern massachusetts verizon wireless' 4g lte network launched a year ago, and claims average data rates of 5 to 12 megabits per second (mbps) on the downlink and 2 to 5 mbps on the uplink.
that's the idea behind a dog trainer in california who says her dogs can sniff a boat and detect whether an invasive mussel is clinging to it in a hidden spot.
here's an example: one person i talked to told me a friend of his once saw a cougar in a tree, where it had taken a deer carcass.
he's definitely closer to the hunting and fish & game community than i am.
this demonstrates how brilliant verizon is because they waited for at&t to show the drawbacks,says slate, or how not-so-brilliant verizon is because at&t has alot of the business tied up already,says ap, or how savvy/desperate verizon is because it may offer unlimited downloads to lure new customers,says the wall street journal.
as a side note, i love the description of incandescent bulbs here:  "incandescent lights are basically electric space heaters that give off  light as a byproduct.
after i got out of the navy, i worked as a field engineer on missile launch systems and associated equipment.
psnh says underground/underwater wouldn't work for huge hydropower line there has been much debate in new hampshire about the plan by psnh's parent company and hydroquebec to run a 1,200-megawatt dc power line down through the state, to bring electricity from huge dams in quebec to boston and other parts of new england.
the state has a data tool that lets you look at public health information by time or geography.
there are some who would be appalled that nuclear power is being discussed on a column titled "green tech," but i'm not among them.
in a previous study, using an older generation of camera trapping systems, i found that deer significantly change their behavior when the camera traps were present.
wow ... co2 buildup can change the spin of the earth!
that last one showed up, to everyone's astonishment, in connecticut last weekend.
the announcement includes this: warning: do not come to this event if you are easily offended by anything.
my house number is even, by the way.
a child screeching, power tools, something falling, all these hurt!
desmarais has four draft horses, another belgian and two percherons: a second team lays line for fairpoint elsewhere in the state.
wings your way is temporarily closed, so the meeting will be at shaskeen, 909 elm st manchester, (603) 625-0246 granite state skeptics are holding their monthly-ish gathering, skeptics in the pub, tonight (monday, july 11)at wings your way in manchester.
stability and job security are a thing of the past.
the question of cougars is a contentious one in new hampshire.
25 years of computer viruses (just finished measuring 4.5 inches of snow - 0.42 inches of melted water,  so this is pretty fluffy light stuff.
maine âmicro-quake swarm' was just the coast rebounding from the ice age wired has a nice, short write-up on the cause of the "swarm of micro-quakes" that were felt in maine earlier this month: it's just the land continuing to rebound from the ice age.
n.h.'s inventor of gps says warrantless gps tracking should be illegal roger easton, whose realization that clocks needed to be up in the satellites in order for the global positioning system to work led to patents that give him the title "father of gps", is among those asking the u.s. supreme court to ban gps tracking by police without a warrant.
five full-grown birch trees, some a good foot across, had sprouted from one spot, and something knocked them all down at once, creating an almost perfect star.
now, i had used this medicine before i realized that it was nonesense, so the question is: did it work?
this presentation is free, and open to anybody, even if you're not a makeitlabs members.
here's the "account center" if you'd like to learn more: https://home.nashuatelegraph.com/clickshare/subscriptioncenter.do
it was a cute picture - they were all dressed up in party dress and  coat-and-tie - but the museum had no information about it.
wind farm law in little antrim generates big debate
it also points out that the 2,000 figure is delivered robots, which doesn't mean they've actually been deployed.
from the story (which has a great headline: "testing the heat of the night"): they foresee thousands of maine homes and businesses cutting oil use with "thermal storage" heaters that take advantage of the cheaper electricity available at night in new england.
they are sent by ship and refrigerated truck to the nsf national ice core laboratory in denver.
these coins are so much handier than dragging out my wallet, sorting through similar looking paper currency and then receiving another handful of change to go into the pocket.
it's part of the center's super stellar friday series, kicking off at 7 p.m. on friday, aug. 26, with the usual admission rates ($9 adults).
from the statement: "today, cmos image sensors are a fixture in camera phones, and other applications include digital slr cameras, embedded web-cams, automotive safety systems, swallowable pill cameras, toys and video games, and wireless video-security networks.
part of that is recycling, which has gone up about 1,500 tons a year over that time, but most of it appears to be the recession - we buy less junk that we toss out.
a real alien invasion makes it to the movies: asian longhorned beetles the cost of making document films has plummeted in the past decade, and  there are more than you can shake a stick at (even a stick containing an  invasive beetle), but here's another one to think about: "bugged: the race  to eradicate the asian longhorned beetle."
the southern half of the country was particularly hard hit.
i had stopped at the compost pile on the way to the car - the darn thing must have jumped on me then.
it is the geekiest of bending-metal geek fests: car nuts crossed with people who think a good argument involves capacitors vs. lithium-ion batteries.
the genome project was conceived with an  expectation that many new gene functions would be uncovered when studied in  light of the animal's natural environment â€” not necessarily  expecting to discover many more genes.
" june 29, 2011 gps interference concerns raised in n.h. by national 4g proposal a proposal by a company called lightsquared to create a whole 4g-lte network that combines wired and satellite transmission over what's known as the l band has a lot of people up in arms.
from the story: until 1971, the state paid a bounty for people to kill the snakes.
(since wind power effectiveness is largely driven by the "swept area" of the turbine blades, bigger is better - so testing big blades is important.)
- i had great trouble finding anybody to contact so i could do the story.
obviously, the math doesn't work.
that produces a larger tick population in the fall when they are ready to quest again.
august 12, 2011 wind power is a problem on hot, still days, so pay people to use less from a ny times story about power companies struggling with peak demand this summer: peak supply is also becoming a vexing problem because so much of the generating capacity added around the country lately is wind power, which is almost useless on the hot, still days when air-conditioning drives up demand.
the joy and excitement of doing science permeated the halls.
it still good a good hour to  melt, though.
this won't change the clocks in cellphones, gps or even on computers, and it won't have anything to do with official u.s. time or internet time.
this success meant that biologists at the federal fish hatchery in nashua had more broodstock salmon than they needed to produce the one million salmon fry that will be released in new hampshire next spring as part of the anadromous fish restoration program, so they're releasing more big fish in new hampshire riversfor anglers to pursue.
this is automotive citizen science, i guess.
in my years of doing a 40-minute commute, i've gotten tired of radio and my ipod, so i sometimes try thosegreat courses on cds, taken from the local library.
i suspect the one nay-sayer, an experienced uber-geek who name-dropped life at digital equipment corp., was at least partly playing devil's advocate.
here's the abstract.
i'll be curious to check in next year to see if i've made the right choice or should have gone with something bigger.
the program starts at 7 p.m.
the first two were on the customshouse, boston (1987)and the monarch place building in springfield (1989).
because we haven't had temperatures this low ina couple of winters (i don't
may 13, 2011 music in "the cloud" - an old idea that's new again
october 21, 2011 today's offer: a free solar-flux-density detector for your back yard!
the smallest variation i could find was delaware, which reported  between 111 and 125 days of precipitation
xiao's modeling method essentially allows the numbers from the individual tower sites to be crunched together into the bigger picture.
"so human effects may mitigate somewhat the affects of the excess melt and eventual sea level rise, and getting a better understanding of all that is part of our work with the water balance/transport model," lammers notes.
still, those early mornings on penobscot bay, especially when there was no wind, the bay like a mirror made for some of my best memories.
if you're ever looking for a nice day hike in southern n.h., consider it.
why not check it out?
the only poisonous snake in northern new england is the timber rattlesnake, which despite the fearsome-sounding name is a shy reptile.
the ions bind to any microbes that may be present on the fiber and disable their critical functions (metabolism, respiration, and reproduction).
lost under the snow: a snow-measuring snowboard part of measuring precipitation for the volunteer cocorahs program involves putting out a "snowboard" - a white, flat board.
century of humans putting heat-trapping gases in the atmosphere is, i'm sure, unrelated.
january 31, 2011 "approval voting" (vote for more than one candidate) sought for nh i will have a story in tomorrow's telegraph about a proposal (this bill) to  allow "approval voting" in nh - basically it would allow you to vote  for as many different candidates as you wanted, e.g., you could have voted for  all three governor candidates if you couldn't choose among them.
u.s. eastern standard time on january 24, 2011.
but it's not like you get fined if you slip:
a bear (i think) nailed our beehive and bird feeder
but the virus remains a very real threat for certain people.
human behavior is changing the climate and causing lots of astonishing  stuff to happen, yes - but sometimes folks go overboard.
dot-org, of course i have a story in the sunday telegraph about a push to make it illegal to bring firewood into new hampshire from out of state (it's already illegal to bring out-of-state wood onto state lands) in an attempt to slow the spread of invasive bugs.
it was a real outlier, or (shudder) a sign of warmer things to come.
there's plenty of opposition  up north, where the bulk of the new routes would be placed - e.g., here's a  blog calledbury the northern pass.
i'm sure the economics seldom came out positive.
ours here at home is about 24 years old and is still running fine.
(the big problem: you can't get down them wearing breathing apparatus, if there's a gas problem below.)
the station will now be called the mumley-rust memorial station.
the researchers note that more than one-third of daphnia's genes are  undocumented in any other organism â€“ they are completely new  to science.
these three traits combined mean that cerceris wasps can act as a sort of scout, that will help us see if the borers have arrived here.
do they give you a gold star or something?
this isn't the first time the problem has occurred.
it's titled "is weather in new hampshire
visitors will have a chance to try  "lunar golf".
"the models i'll work with will help us to better understand how and why ecosystems are changing, given climate variations and various human activities."
we've had more snow in the past, but there have been intermittent warm days that make it slide off (i have a metal roof).
the toshiba 4s is the model.
here's the story from the union-leader.
i heartily recommend you check out this post (which has a few not-safe-for-work words and a bit of snark, but by net standards it's practically suitable for submission to an academic journal): 10 famous unsolved mysteries easily explained by science
is the 60-cycle power grid likely to slip (and make your oven clock be wrong)?
tuesday, 7 p.m., at the barley house restaurant in concord - free!
it happened after a public talk tuesday night at st. anselm college's new hampshire institute of politics, which hosted a couple of nuclear-power-industry folks to talk about the state of the industry, post-fukishima.
then you can writhe in envy or shake your head in disbelief at such a waste of effort - you choose.
"we also want to learn how good our individual site-specific work is at predicting broad patterns across the continent."
the moon is actually about 110 earth moon diameters away.
nsf's large-scale biology program, a first for the agency, will tackle big questions in search of equally big answers: how will the biosphere respond to natural and human-induced changes across a range of time and space scales?
so maybe a slow collapse of the system that has worked so brilliantly for 100 years would be no big deal.
brown spot needle blight, or mycosphaerella dearnessii, and white pine needlecast, or canavirgella banfieldii, were known from previous years, and this spring, another needle pathogen, bifusella linearis, was identified in tree stands found damaged last year, he said.
september 19, 2011 farmed salmon found in wild maine riviers, raising concern about diluting the wild stock
she  cringed watched me dribble a little bit of water on the counter here and splash  a tiny bit out of the beaker there, and finally couldn't help herself:  "you'd have real problems in organic chemistry, where the amount left on  the (stirring) spoon would make a difference.
part of twickler's job is to divvy up the precious ice samples  depending on specific researcher's investigations.
there is no visual or other sensory cue that it has done anything at all; you might as well be waving chicken feathers or placing it the bottle a magic pentagram drawn in the sand.
ig nobel star (a nobel laureate, too) dies at age 91
no wonder the trees broke.
this seems like an obvious idea, but one in which the finances might be tough to justify up front:
it is an amazing event.
but haeg says that would be auto-setting, which is illegal in  minnesota ... but legal in wisconsin.
still, i guess you have to try.
if you haven't seen my video talking about how to figure out how much moisture is in fallen snow,check it out.
let's hope it actually works.
we newspaper-folk sympathize.
the best comment on the smithsonian site is the person who pointed out (tongue in cheek, i hope), that we all leapt to the assumption that the gears are in the same plane!
june 6, 2011 can there be fake homeopathic medicine (with real ingredients, but pretending not to?)
it stopped working so i volunteered to either fix it or recover the magnets from the magnetron and other bits and pieces.
the open grid pattern of the disks increases the amount of surface area that can hold bacteria.
the story is pretty bland and doesn't have links to its many other stories  or other background information, such as a map of the route - i suspect that's  a result of today being monday, because there's not much staffing in offices on  sunday to do that sort of thing.
at least two prominent climate scientists have offered theories suggesting that it is.
my only issue now is that loud noises are literally painful.
as for the talk itself, the speakers, a power-plant engineer and a lawyer, were knowledgeable but came across as rah-rah corporate apologists (although i agreed with most of their points), while the anti-nuclear folks in the audience came across as long-winded fuzzy thinkers (although they had some good points lurking in the verbiage)
that's why the nor'easters won the championship in their first year - they had a good mix of skill levels.
counting the rings, it is obvious that the trees were stressed some years.
the mission launched october 19, 2008 and carries two ultra-high sensitivity cameras containing important components designed and built at unh.
because a poll that announces "most people don't have an opinion" is boring and nobody would pay attention to it - or pay money to see it.
"while the origin of this species in new hampshire is uncertain, it  seems likely to have been introduced by human intervention," said david  neils, des biologist.
march 5, 2011 unh finds home routers/modems aren't ready for ipv6 networkworld has a report on a recent "plugfest" test of home routers and modems atunh's interoperability lab, one of the nation's foremost places to see whether equipment is ready for ipv6, and says the results weren't pretty, although details are scarce because labs "are typically tight-lipped about plugfest results.
do you know who bob swanson is?
january 25, 2011 hackers from tunisia take down maine newspaper site the bangor daily news has an unusual statement on its home page today: the bangor daily news website suffered several hours of downtime monday  evening after hackers from tunisia exploited a security vulnerability on one of  the bdn's servers.
august 24, 2011 earthcope instrument network screen shot of "ripple" from aug. 23 earthquake
my spouse and i learn all of the dynamic manner you offer efficient suggestions through your website a
a little online hunting finds lots of reports about dogs being used to sniff out bedbugs -
september 26, 2011 horse-drawn carriages collide due to âmalfunction' i don't want to be glib about this, because at least one person was seriously hurt, but in all my years on a newspaper i have never seen an accident report like the one from applecrest farm orchards in hampton falls.
" *assuming you have power, of course november 2, 2011 back-of-the-envelope number of the day: a leafy oak can carry 3,000 pounds of snow i have a story in today's telegraph about the species of trees heavily damaged in the recent snowstorm, according to the county forester jon nute (who knows pretty much everything, in my estimation).
psnh wants to do that in manchester, but there is a dispute about how they would pay for it.
in it, i made no bones about how discredited the arguments are that are used by anti-vaccine folks.
topics include stress on pelicans in north dakota, streams in oklahoma, and walden pond in massachusetts.
many designs have been floated over the years for turbines that will allegedly get more power out of the sort of light and variable winds encountered at many homes, but so far they have not reached great commercial success.
the advantage of approval voting, mcguire said, is that the state and towns wouldn't have to redesign their ballots and people wouldn't have to change their voting habits, since the current method of voting for just one candidate per seat would still be allowed.
the $450 million project is designed to remove 80 percent of the mercruy and 90 percent of sulfur from the emissions.
acording to greentechmedia, it will be powered by nanophosphate lithium-ion battery packsfroma123
rggi created $404 million in efficiency, and nh believes climate is changing even as new hampshire ponders leaving the regional greenhouse gas  initiative, the program says the 10 states in the pact have used $404 million  in auction payments, mostly from utilities, to pay for various efficiency  programs.
the sheet metal goes to the metal pile at the dump.
his main tool in monitoring the entire system is a computer back in the office hooked up to a network of sensors in the field.
it starts at 7:30 p.m. tonight, so check it out.
all you had to do was to make five to ten copies of the letter and then send them out to friends who would pass on more copies to ten more unique people.
(reuters story here.)
doing it in a way that doesn't interfere with ecosystems that depend on the moving water is even tougher.
april 22, 2011 shop radiant heating my shop has in-floor radiant heating.
here's the release, with links to all sorts of downloadable data sets if you're in a number-crunching mood.
i've long wondered if turkeys' success will send them down the canada goose route, turning them into such an outright pest that we start killing them outside ofthe spring and fall hunting seasons.
let's get to the root of what the holiday's were all about.
detecting gamma-ray polarization can provide astrophysicists with a better understanding of particle acceleration, a ubiquitous and important but poorly understood process that generates radiation and occurs throughout the universe â from earth's magnetic field (magnetosphere) to pulsars and black holes.
gasoline has a density equivalent of around 13,000 watt-hours per kilogram.
when they didn't help, he turned to surgery and real medicine.
as soon as they saw all those rare bills being circulated, the objections just went away.
june 17, 2011 maine sees jobs, money in ocean energy the portland press-herald's tux turkel gets right to the point in a story today about a conference concerning generating power from the ocean: "maine's basic goal for offshore energy is to produce electricity, but the larger potential is to develop the manufacturing capacity to supply ocean energy components to the world."
over the course of the project, the daphnia genomics consortium has grown from a handful of founding members to over 450 investigators distributed around the globe.
still, that's an amazing  change, and is sure to fire up the whole debate.
this long ap story hits most of the highlights, including our increasing dependence on natural gas and the fact that some aging coal plants are likely to be shut down in coming years, putting a strain on the system.
the program to return atlantic salmon to new england hasn't exactly been a roaring success, since there's no realistic hope that a viable population will exist any time soon.
" june 23, 2011 a little sedan barely misses 300,000 miles, and is so disappointed it burst into flame we've all had cars with big numbers on the odometer that we were proud of -
my telegraph column today is a borderline rant about how the out-moded  technology of incandescent lights should have disappeared from homes a while  ago.
here's an excellent blog post about the process of getting the plaque, written by kathleen marden, who is the hills' neice and has become their most public advocate.
just goes to show that all technology is potentially dangerous, even old technology.
photo by kathy cleveland
it works well and has for the past many years.
nor should we succumb to the easy mistake of thinking that scientists understand their fields better than, say, u.s. senators or best-selling novelists do.
the remaining material is pumped into a second pressurized vessel for a longer period to release the remaining sugars.
the experiments confirm what many experts had suspected, and rule out the possibility that the fungus preys on sick animals but does not actually cause the disease.
how do we know they work?
"i'm hoping that the committee will take  their time."
it's a complicated issue, since few wild salmon are returning to rivers as it is.
if it gets power solely from windmills or solar panels (not that any do, of course)
the economist magazine has a cover story arguing that the final launch of the space shuttle marks the end of the space age, because the cost and difficulty of doing anything with humans even as close as mars is far greater than any reward that most people value.
new hampshire fish and game info sheet on the handsome critter can be seenhere.
" it's a good article - read it here.
(article here by singularity hub)
obviously a lot are around all the time, or they couldn't have swarmed like they did.
find out more from boing boing here, and read the comments, including commentary from a researcher who uses jstor and sees the conflict between trying to make research information freely accessible, and trying to pay the salaries of people who do the research.
august 9, 2011 visiting nashua's unique triangular manhole covers nashua is slowly replacing its unique triangular manholes with round ones, because the triangles aren't big enough to meet modern safety standards.
"we will establish which glaciers are providing water to the oceans and which are sending it to these endorheic basins," lammers says.
is it even desirable?
the most energetic galactic cosmic rays penetrate even the powerful magnetic fields closest to earth and eventually collide and interact with earth's atmosphere.
and here's just the sort of thing she talked about: a board game she helped develop that demonstrates the damage that can be done when people skip vaccines: "players really experience how things get out of control very quickly with an unvaccinated population."
here's a reuters story about it.
more than anything else, the science behind e. coli emphatically points out something far more horrifying than any one outbreak: nature doesn't like us.
you can see it really isn't completely spontaneous, since some external energy is required.
the soles are great at gripping wet rocks, but they're impossible to clean compared to rubber soles, so they can more easily spread contamination from stream to stream.
it's free,  with competitions all day today and saturday (they break an hour for lunch  around noon).
check out the story here - or you can watch a video here, on firehouse.com.
but it's a weird mating ground by mammal standards: there aren't many  females, and not much mating.
eddy currents are new to me but they have long been used in a bunch of different technologies.
the deeper the ice, the further back in time measurements can be made.
lyme disease is a bacterial infection that is carried by ixodesscapularis (the deer tick).
we have friends with wild cranberries around a pond and we frequently go pick some by hand.
zebra mussels, those nasty, intake-pipe-clogging bivalves, were first spotted in the u.s. in 1988 in the great lakes, and despite tons of effort, time and money, have slowly spread throughout the country's fresh waters.
nh fastroads is partnering withnetwork new hampshire now (nnhn), a collaboration of public and private organizations to develop a high-speed broadband network throughout the state.
photo by portland state university.
nearly 200 scientists have contributed published work resulting from the genome  study, many in open-source journals published as a thematic series by  biomedcentral.
its output was down almost 30 percent in may, compared to a year before and down almost 20 percent in april.
and i had a great arrangement.
(twip stands for the week in preview, an every-monday print feature about a few upcoming items in the nashua region; the daily version is a quirky "today in history" tidbit that lands around noon; it is designed, i think, to break up the crime-and-courts items that dominate breaking news on a newspaper website during the day.)
thursday all day (8 to 5) is climate change and new hampshire's seacoast, a big discussion and presentation, featuring a ton of high-level academics and industry folks, about how our coast should cope with rising seas and variable weather.
the ibex maps differ so radically from what was expected prior to the mission that the scientists have been struggling to untangle the vast amount of information the maps contain.
companies recruit consumers willing to have their consumption electronically throttled.
that way, he said, investigators do not waste time "securing a crime scene to safeguard a cow bone.
if you were a legitimate user, and could prove it,  they'd unlock you.
85th anniversary of goddard's first rocket
it's a really upbeat celebration of teenage geekdom overlaid with  traditional sports-fan-type goofiness - a huge event, which occupies the entire  ice-hocky rink and fills a third of the stands.
the biorefinery is planned to have an annual production of 40 million  gallons of low-carbon cellulosic ethanol, to be covered by the off-take  arrangement with valero.
the fuel pump blew at 741,000 miles, drawing laughter from his kids when the car had to be towed."
after looking around, i found several computers that didn't have any protection at all from lightning strikes.
...... 17 executive drive, hudson, nh 03051 (603) 882-2741 read our privacy policy and user agreement ©telegraph publishing company, all rights reserved
"it refers to letting people vote fairly, and to having correct  proportional representation," said dan mcguire, a republican state  legislator from epsom.
these two magnetic fields repel each other, the way the north end of one magnet repels the north end of another magnet.
here's some of his writeup: camera trapping, an especially promising non-invasive technology, uses remotely activated cameras that have motion detectors to take photos when an animal walks by.
the project has revealed that they're more comfortable with urban life than one would have thought.
by the way, a commenter to the post suggests that the creator, mike haeg, tie the fishing line to the rocket, so the catch can be pulled out of the hole automatically.
unh also had a legacy with the space shuttle challenger, which performed the very first on-orbit satellite repair for the solar maximum mission (smm or solarmax).
this is the first time in 20 years here that i've shoveled off the roof out  of concern about weight of snow buildup.
january 2011 was the ninth-driest january in the united states in 117 years.
we have since shifted the gears and switched in a new logo.
the location was selected because it is the best place on the planet to determine how greenhouse gases have changed during the last 100,000 years.
the group is co-sponsoring with the new hampshire carbon alliance (which, if stereotypes run true, has very few republicans) a conference in portsmouth on nov. 17 called "climate change and new hampshire's seacoast."
my telegraph column this week covers the topic: check it out here.
other years, the growth rings might be ¼" in width indicating good weather conditions.
with a focus on cosmology and exciting new instruments being  developed, his presentation will explore what astronomers expect to learn about  the early origins of the universe as we achieve the ability to reach back to  the first stars and first galaxies formed in the universe.
although the advance of e-readers and tablets is cool technology, this fight is all about money and copyright and corporate control, at a time when a well-established industry is being tumbled around at lightning speed by unexpected change.
my column on monday is about incadescent light bulbs and how they're, thankfully, finally being phased out.
if you're a wikipeida fan and/or geek, you might want to be on the frog pond at boston common tomorrow (saturday, june 25) noon for the region's wiknic, a wikipeidan picnic.
what are the odds that your house number is odd, as compared to even?
but coastline-rich maine is wise to pursue it for ocean energy, starting with research and development.
august 3, 2011 goofy calendar number "holiday" du jour: wi-fi day (8.02.11) yesterday was august 2, 2011, which means it was wi-fi day: 8.02.11 i've gotten pretty tired of those unusual calendar/number days - pi day, 11/11/11, etc.etc. - but this one is clever.
a 4-day sidescan sonar survey around the coastal waters of portsmouth and the isles of shoals found 1,570 lobster traps appear to be derelict, shifting around on the ocean floor endangering wildlife.
there are lots of memorial pieces today.
one thing i'm finding is that "friend of a friend" reports get  less exciting as you hunt them down.
a new invasive fish in nh 'likely introduced by human intervention a press release from the state: the state departments of environmental services (des) and fish and game announced today the discovery of the rosyside dace (clinostomus  funduloides), a non-native member of the minnow family previously unknown in  new hampshire.
almost instantly, the flame was snuffed out. ...
may is lyme disease awareness month in maine so remember to do your tick checks.
i write a lot about "citizen science" projects, most recently the new hampshire dragonfly survey, but i don't participate in them (unless you count cocorahs, a rainfall-measuring program).
the sun doesn't pass through the western zodiac signs (other cultures draw different pictures in the sky, which tells you something about astrology right there) during the times of year that astrologers pretend it does, and hasn't for a long time.
here's the column, entertaining and brilliantly written as always.
it's a cautionary tale about pushing the envelope.
february 27, 2011 defining a trillion by turkey plate specials the union-leader has a piece today trying to put the number "trillion" into perspective.
psnh and hydroquebec cals the project the northern pass, and the big problem is that it would require cutting scores of miles of new rights of way, usually through wooded areas and over ridgelines.
" "safely securing the spent fuel by eliminating highly radioactive, crowded pools should be a public safety priority of the highest degree.
here's my earlier column about the program.
september 10, 2011 why aren't more power lines buried?
they found one guy so mad about comcast cable-modem's outages that he switched to fairpoint dsl, and another one so mad at fairpoint's outages that he switched to comcast.
there's nothing local going on because the latest snowstorm has shut down everything, so take note of this fascinating item, spotted inthis ny times article: university students placed in a heated room expressed higher confidence that global warming was a proven fact than those placed in a neutral control room.
the  station will officially be open at 11:30 for student and public use.
the ny times has a story today about a conducting leading the new york philharmonic using an ipad.
here's the site with lots more details.
discovery center: 'astro-photography 101â² taking pictures of the night sky is harder than it sounds, and few of us will ever be able to take photos like a mind-boggling shot of the iss in front of the sun during a solar eclipse (check it here).
i did some trailwork last weekend on part of the wapack trail, organized by friends of the wapack.
whoever compiles them does a good job of finding stories in weird places that are of interest to new hampshire.
this opens up all sorts of opportunities for cheap robots and little machines.
it should be lively: wednesday, sept. 21 at 7:30 at the barley house restaurant in downtown concord.
( read the story here.)
very carefully a huge testing facility for wind turbines, with the ability to test blades up to 90 meters long, is being built in charlestown, mass., just across the charles river from boston.
ugh. october 25, 2011 maine wood pellets -lots of them - are getting exported to europe biomass energy (subject of the science cafe n.h. discussion in january, by the way) or creating heat/electricity by burning wood, is a weird stepchild of alternative energy - not very sexy, with its aura of old-fashioned throwback, but in this part of the world it's a big part of the potential mix for ditching fossil fuels.
web doodad predicts if your school will call a snowday a web doodad called the snowday calculator, which seems to have been around for years, will "predict" the likelihood that your school will be called because of snow.
there's no easy solution; you can't spray fungicide in every cave in north america.
" it's the latest change in the attempt to build communities online.
the money paid by bidders for rggi allowances was used to fund various energy-efficiency programs.
(seabrook in n.h. is no. 36 at 1 in 45,455; vermont yankee is no. 70, at 1 in 123,457.)
at 10 below, they don't completely thaw when you exhale.
i wasn't going to link to the video because i don't want to encourage this sort of silliness, but i guess i should:here it is.
and while flywheels can explode, so can batteries.
lyme disease is no joking matter, however (although it's also one of those vague conditions, like chronic fatigue, to which people attach all sorts of wild claims).
use your pool filter to spot invasive insects my telegraph column today talks about a really cool new program started by the state, in which they sign up people who have swimming pools and ask them to identify all the bugs that are caught in the filter each week.
but the winner this month has to be this: because of looking out throughout the search engines and seeing thoughts which are not pleasant, i figured my life was well over.
but it is interesting, and i suspect the folks at unh's  interoperability lab, which have spent years  testing and certifying  devices and systems for ipv6 compatibility, could explain it better.
the u.s. court of appeals for the 2nd circuit declared the law an unconstitutional restriction on commercial speech.
rock snot - love that name - has been found in a few streams in the upper connecticut river valley, but i haven't heard any reports of its spreading in n.h. judging from its spread around the world, however, it's bound to.
here's a telegraph story presenting the unfiltered arguments of the  "vaccines made my kid sick" folks at a recent legislative hearing.
the ny times has a story (here) as does the wall street journal (here) october 15, 2011 crabapple leaves found by eleanor broussard in n.h. in mid-october
aaron cunningham, the nashua space fan who is following the very land shuttle rollout, of atlantis, for the telegraph, plans to also cover the last landing of the shuttle endeavor tonight, via his special page here:
the city of burlington has approved a plan for a "smart grid" in the city even though it will cost $13.5 million and will involve at least some wireless meters that have drawn some opposition in maine.
sources of the dolphin oils most of the smaller toothed whales, including dolphins and porpoises, have small quantities of oil in cavities in the head, especially in the brain "melon" and in the glands of the jaw hinges. . .
â â â â â â â mont vernon new hampshire's most famous ufo abduction was 50 years ago today
vast wasteland, anybody? april 10, 2011
it even got picked up by slashdot.
the bill is co-sponsored by three other first-term republicans state  legislators, but mcguire says that's a coincidence, reflecting the fact that  they already know each other.
the biggest place with public water that's noton this list is nashua): -manchester -concord -portsmouth -hanover -lebanon -lancaster -dover -durham -laconia -madbury -rochester january 9, 2011 creating a wikipedia article to celebrate the 10th anniversary
this year, mfs staff put out 82 traps using pheromones (scents of the targeted insects) or kairomones (scents of insect food) throughout the state.
earle rich           mont  vernon,  nh              fruitland park, fl u.s. has been snowy but dry this winter, says nasa
you can read the whole story here.
maybe it means ways of measuring data loss is flawed and the bad guys have found invisible ways to be bad.
"beacon power: we're broke, but we're no solyndra" this is lazy journalism, but the cnet coverage of the beacon power bankruptcy is so good that i'm just going to link to it - again!- and even seat their headline.
and this item, concerning the growing practicing of using salt brine on  icy/snow roads: * in the past two years, the state has begun experimenting with brine in  northwestern vermont. ...
july 3, 2011 is this the end of the space age?
a better way seems to be a method of retraining the brain so that damaged nerve cells can have lower sensitivity.
even in extreme cold, petd  achieves nearly perfect efficiency because neither the object nor the air is  heatedâ€”the heat simply does not have time to propagate into  the environment.
mitsubishi may have one for sale in this country within a year,reports the ny times.
that's just a guess, though.
presentations will be given on the apollo 14 mission at 11:30, 1:30 and 3:30 pm on saturday and sunday with a specialtonight's sky planetarium show at 2 and 4 pm focusing on the moon.
the difference is unlikely to be noticed - except in some electronic clocks, which use 60-cycles-per-second as their digital tick-tock.
the state's rebate program for small-scale (under 5 kilowatt) alternate energy demonstrates one fact for new hampshire homes seeking to generate their own electricity: wind power is hardly a factor.
they are sent by ship and refrigerated truck  to the nsf national ice core laboratory in denver.
on tuesday, three marine broadcast stations - none in the northeast, alas - participated in an annual morse code broadcast event sponsored by the non-profit maritime radio historical society (whose web site has a very cool masthead design).
my wife learned tat at a continuing-education veterinary conference, and i thought you'd want to know.
earle richâ â â â â â â â â
february 20, 2011 study: if vermont yankee shuts, area's electric grid may suffer
even the labels on the exhibits look old-fashioned, with the sort of typography i expect to see in flyers for snake-oil nostrums.
(i'm reporting on that story today.)
here's the u-l story.
i argue in the column that evolution, linking us to the understandable reality of the universe, has more meaning that an arbitrary creation by some other-worldly being or beings, but i also note that the argument is irelevant: science classes should teach science.
the multiple votes would have been tallied as always and the  candidate with the most total votes would win, as currently happens.
here's my column, which includes an interivew with one speaker, an attorney-turned-organic-farmer who is aiming at sales of $160,000 this year.
on the other hand, the atari 2600 game system is there, so we can't complain too much about anti-geek bias.
xiao's successful proposal results in part from pioneering work he has conducted over the last four years.
alas, lipscomb has died, although since he reached 91 we should celebrate a life well lived, rather than merely mourn.
any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from gobbledygook
so, how does didymo survive in clean places like the upper reaches of the connecticut river?
from the story: one billboard shows a graphic shot of a female monkey with her genitals exposed, alongside the brand a logo.
written by the nonprofit institute for policy studies, the report urges that used fuel to transferred to "dry casket" storage, either at each power plant or at central repositories, to limit the risk of a release of radioactive material resulting from an earthquake, storm, terrorism or building fire.
the magnets from these are great.
the high annual snowfall at the site enables individual annual layers of  snowfall to be identified and counted, much like counting tree rings, back to  about 40,000 years.
for a long time the region had no solar-power project bigger than about 500  kilowatts, but now the megawatt-level projects are starting to arrive in  massachusetts.
during its operation from 1991 to 2000, when it was deorbited by nasa, the compton gamma ray observatory explored the high-energy sky looking at some of the most violent and energetic processes in the universe, including black holes, solar flares, gamma-ray bursts, and pulsars.
i've always thought that coos county should push for a similar designation as a tourist draw.
the reporter wrote up this non-news, the item was carried along on the  internet's wave foam, encountered by people who didn't realize this information  and/or misunderstood it, and nonsense ensued.
i'm also surprised that there aren't any other signs of its presence on the fairly crowded porch - no scratches in the railing that it must have climbed on or leaned against, for example.
my vaccine story has drawn no furious rants!
but being cautious can make sense when you're dealing with lots of money,  because new technology may let you down when it moves into the real world.
january 11, 2011 49 of 50 states have snow on the ground hawaii has snow on mauna kea - so only florida is lacking snow on the ground at the moment,says noaa.
and, i'm happy to say, no bobhouses were destroyed.
not so great when someone catches me in such a trap.
return to menu february 1, 2011 last ipv4 blocks auctioned; the net has to grow up now the last blocks of ipv4 addresses have been auctioned off (release here; slashdot item here).
it's like sports and doesn't require us to think too much.
try this if you have problems:http://www.rockethub.com/projects/by_category/34-science)
how do you hurt a toe when it's encased inside a tough, sold ski boot, i wonder?
then as a technical writer and teacher at the guided missile school in mare island, california.
even in extreme cold, petd achieves nearly perfect efficiency because neither the object nor the air is heatedâthe heat simply does not have time to propagate into the environment.
i wrote about that long-gone site years ago - it was very cool.
"all you had to say was say 'the world' and they'd say, 'oh that would be neat to have in new hampshire' and they'd help you out," he said.
ufo festival this weekend, as 50th anniversary of the hills' abduction nears sept. 19 will be the 50th anniversary of the alien abduction of betty and barney hill while they were driving home through the white mountains.
he says they represent the first substantial changes since the epa set performance standards to "certify" wood stoves, 23 years ago, and that the compliance date for wood stoves and outdoor boilers is likely to be june 2014.
if a hurricane destroys all the power line,s cell phone towers and phone lines, you can still send dits and dahs using a battery, a few connections, and a wire antenna tossed over a tree limb.
so, here's the latest project.
today i'm a cancer" and gets all huffy that mean astronomers have ruined his day.
eight firms vie for n.h. high-tech product of the year eight new hampshire companies are semi-finalists in the annaul new hampshire product of the year contest run by thenh high technology council (nhhtc): bottomline technologies of portsmouth, which makes software for the financial industry;fossmanufacturing of hampton, which makes "engineered, non-woven" fabrics;horizon technology of salem, which makes euqipment for automatic sample preparation;iglobe of franklin, which makes display equipment; integra of hudson, which makes laboratory tools; labsphere of north sutton, which makes "precision radiometric and photometric test and measurement products";russound of newmarket, which makes multiroom audio equipment; and scribe software.of manchester, which makes customer-relationship management software.
over time, the ice forms as snow is compacted at the surface by subsequent snowfall.
return to menu october 2, 2011
"this galactic magnetic field may be a missing key to understanding how the heliosphere protects the solar system from galactic cosmic rays," says schwadron.
the multiple votes would have been tallied as always and the candidate with the most total votes would win, as currently happens.
although  troublesome individuals can be relocated or put down, wholesale removal of a  whole group just opens up the territory for new coyotes.
at this time we're the only u.s. institution still active in this particular field building this type of solar wind composition instrument."
the joy of a fetid, steaming pile of rotting glop i am fortunate to have enough room on my property for compost piles.
i strongly believe that we americans have the right to take pictures in public places - a right increasingly limited bynervous-nellie law enforcement andbusiness-protecting legislators.
it's the latest change in the attempt to build communities online.
it will be interesting to see how this all works out.
the ibex scientists analyzed data from the mission's first year of observations and, after developing an effective separation method, were able to isolate and resolve the unanticipated energetic ribbon feature.
these blown fuses are the reason i didn't have power for two days (it just came back -woohoo!); when a tree hits the line and grounds it out, they blow.
it's a charmingly old-fashioned museum, best known as the home of theglass flowers, a huge collection of incredibly detailed and accurate models of flowers and plants made out of glass a century ago.
that's what really appealed to me about bonneville, that and the fact that the landscape is very foreign."
- but it's an intriguing idea, creating a brand-new digital-only currency.
i'm reprinting the sidebar here because it's easy to overlook them online, and i thought it was interesting.
on february 5, 1971, with command module pilot stuart roosa staying in  orbit around the moon, commander alan shepard and lunar module pilot ed  mitchell touched down on the lunar surface in the fra mauro highlands.
if you check it out, you can see the funky double-decker nest that phoebes have built in my barn.
but in the chapter on the cellar, he really screws up.
it has multiple generations in a year, so that populations can build up and be quite large by harvest."
further, researchers sampled some firewood and found 600 different insect species living in 19 samples.
the intriguing semi-english of automated comment spam like many blogs, i get waves of comment spam that is either generated by a poor language algorithm or an overworked romanian whose only experience with english was listening to garbled bbc broadcasts.
here's the site's main page, with articles about various cities around the world.
the $100 million plant comes with a heavy responsibility as only he and one technician will operate the plant from a small office a few hundreds yards from the panels.
talk about a bittersweet sort of fame.
they've probably got the votes to override any veto from the governor, so i suspect it's time for us to say bye-bye torggi.
after all that abuse, i have one ear that is way down in sensitivity and the other with mild loss.
it's a tough life and i'm not sorry to be out of it.
they still have a few hundred triangles to replace, though, so they won't disappear immediately.
the town council in bath has balked at this, and cmp may sue them.
i automatically bought some bulbs, since we always needed to replace them.
they finally had to cut the lines after being swamped with angry international calls.
sharp edges, with their high contrast between adjacent pixels, have lots of information that is hard to compress.
http://blog.makezine.com/ i would recommend that all parents let their kids know this is available and give them enough tools to 'bend' circuits, take things apart and build new things from the parts.
well, guess what: the boy was a nashuan and the picture came from a 1953 book called "allan and tricia visit science park," created as a promotional item by the museum.
original file, oct. 31: beacon power of tyngsborough, mass., makes of privy-sized flywheel systems used to stabilize voltage on the power grid, has filed for bankruptcy.
it's a 10-state  program that was long touted as a model for national cap-and-trade - something  that isn't going to happen any time soon.
the stuxnet virus, often considered the first computer virus to flourish in  the wild, was released 25 years ago this month, as i realized after readingthis  ny times opinion piece - which notes that it was a mistake: (they wrote it) to safeguard the latest version of their heart-monitoring  software from piracy.
(read the whole release here )
i walked into the house and saw ronald reagan on tv in the middle of the afternoon.
those include flooding, lightning, rodent and human damage to the ground, and earthquakes.
i have often thought that new hampshire's north country should apply to become aninternational dark sky reserve, and use that in its tourist promotions - "come see the milky way, the way your grandparents did", or something like that.
but makers of hoo-hah need to be up front about their nonsense, otherwise they're just deluding us.
january 22, 2011 how much snow is on the ground?
included in the filing a printout from www.us-government-torture.com, offering links to methods to "neutralize the electronic attacks carried out with exotic delivery methods using transmitters for large population areas, implantable microchips and directed energy."
design nine was founded in 1987 to provide technology advice and services to community, business, and public clients.
there are also hopes that they lines might be buried, but costs mean that idea is "too fanciful ... to require detailed analysis," claims the utility.
i have previously  mentioned iin this post) a video showing an iced-up windshield get fixed like  magic.
the unh component of this work was supported, in part, by the new hampshire agricultural experiment station and by a grant from the u.s. department of agriculture (national research initiative) plant genome program.
the surprising news that the mountain lion killed by a car in connecticut had walked over the course of a couple of years from south dakota led me to wonder who exactly figured this out.
regulators finally said that cmp had to let people opt out of wireless meters, but they'd have to pay for the privilege because it will raise the company's eventual costs.
from the story: only a few decades ago, dr. steneck said, the maine fishery included cod, hake, haddock, halibut and swordfish, many of them lobster predators.
"they need alternative ways of sharing information or alternative ways of getting it out of the country." june 13, 2011 screen shot (don't bother clicking it) of solar power output for psnh energy park.
the resulting images are a huge boon to scientists who want to understand wildlife; they help illuminate which species are in an area, how many of them there might be, what they are eating/hunting and other behaviors.
all about antennas - cell phone, on the moon, and more tonight (friday, june 17) at the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center, amateur radio dale clement (af1t) will discuss how antennas send and receive radio waves.
green, in this case, isn't good.
mcguire, a republican, liked the gop candidate, john stephen, but he liked the libertarian candidate, john babiarz, even more.
the concord monitor, the paper for mcauliffe's home town, hasa lot of coverage.
the company says the mask uses silver and copper ions, "which are incorporated into the fiber and naturally attack the microbes.
consider the story of an intriguing heat pump, one that's more efficient and works better in cold weather, that was developed by an engineer and built by a small bangor, maine.
it included two  interesting tidbits: * the effectiveness of road salt goes down dramatically as the temperature  goes down.
basically, we get precipitation one day out of every three.
the genome sequencing effort, led by researchers at the university of florida and virginia tech, found that the woodland strawberry âfragaria vesca â has240 million base pairs of dna (compared to 3 billion for humans), making it one of the smallest genomes of economically significant plants.
august 28, 2011 cocorahs precipitation map for nh on aug. 28
the library program uses a company called overdrive.
the mit museum has been refurbished and will reopen this weekend, part of a bunch of celebrations about the school turning 150.
or maybe he was just seeing how well his new phone took pictures through the windshield.
skeptics in the pub, tonight in manchester (new location) update:
they want folks build a trebuchet of wood or pvc pipe, on a frame no bigger than 6-by-8-by-6 feet, and bring them to the museum for a test that involves six attempts throwing a one-pound bag of beans at targets 75 feet and 100 feet away.
testing an underwater "windmill" (yes, another one) getting hydropower from the tides or underwater river flows (as compared to putting up a dam) seems obvious and straightforward to us laymen.
the payout is subtle enough that it requires buying hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of tickets.
whether there's a connection to global climate change is, of course, uncertain.
he got his math phd from mit and was a math teacher for the  navy, which took him to the souht pole, burma and switzerland, among other  places.
nh is getting warmer, along with the us as a whole the "average" temperature in new hampshire was about half a degree fahrenheit warmer in the 1981-2010 period than in the 1971-2000 period, according to the national oceanographic and atmospheric administration.
energy secretary steven chu, the only science nobel laureate ever to sit in the presidential cabinet, is coming to new hampshire on thursday.
why is "5683â³ a very common four-number code?
read the press-herald story here.
maybe this means that verizon is better at protecting its data.
over the years, hotels, b&bs and restaurants have found that  claiming to be haunted is a great way to get free publicity and draw  an occasional curious customer.
animals will be tagged, weighed, and observed, as compared to annual counts made from the air, which constitute the bulk of our current knowledge.
dartmouth professor joins inventor hall of fame eric fossum, engineering professor at dartmouth college, has been named to thenational inventors hall of fame for leading the team at nasa's jet propulsion laboratory that created the cmos active pixel sensor camera-on-a-chip.
the bangor firm,hallowell  international, has gone from 40 employees to 3, and its future seems iffy.
he also knows that it's unlikely to be accepted by the statehouse any  time soon, due to novelty if nothing else.
this stuff burns like crazy.
the article is hidden within our archives and not directly linkable, but i do like this bit about why everybody wants to turn cellulose, the part of plants that holds up structures, into ethanol even though it's much harder than doing it with corn kernels: "if it's so much work, why bother?
i'm really looking forward to prices coming down and technology improving for good, 360-degree, warm light led bulbs.
the new hampshire statehouse has voted to end our participation in the 10-state regional greenhouse gas initiative, a cap-and-trade greenhouse gas program for utilities.
then they had to decide on what color lured it, so they tried a bunch.
the ice at 3,331 meters fell as snow about 100,000 years ago.
back when i was a kid, my hearing loss was pretty severe due to blocked eustacheon tubes, frequent colds and adenoids that needed to be removed.
learn how flat screen tvs produce colored  images and how light is used in cancer treatments.
the smithsonian has a great item about a 1900 boston globe article imagining boston a century hence (i.e., roughly now).
how do you test a 90-meter windmill blade?
i was asked to investigate dehumidifiers that would be installed in the 200 rooms of the life enrichment center.
august 30, 2011 river testing this morning might be a little dicey, thanks to the storm every other tuesday i, along with a couple dozen other volunteers, collect water samples to test local rivers for bacteria and oxygen count.
it's all part of an experiment to see whether this system can be easily integrated into the grid.
their families and friends admire science and math accomplishment, so they do well in it.
as a result, while i've posted to lots of stories over the years about tests of tidal power or run-of-the-river underwater turbines, nobody's done much with such "hydrokinetic" power.
i was interested in the precipitation map she included, which i've shown here.
ipv4 depletion for u.s. companies isfully expected to occur in 2011.
they reach no particular conclusion due to lack of data, but the story contains some interesting comments from marc abrahams, the power behind the ig throne, about how some senior scientists have rejected nominations: in such cases, "tthe senior scientist saw nothing funny about his (it's always a he in these cases) work and was highly, almost violently, offended that anyone (especially his own team) found pleasure and amusement in what they had done.
and so he wisely gave up on me.
it is very good at finding cracks and crevices into homes, trunks of automobiles, etc.
i don't think i'll even ask for power-usage figures this year - no point.
to do otherwise would be elitist and therefore wrong.
the 4 jaw and 3 jaw chuck especially were quite badly rusted.
burlington, vt., used instant-runoff for a couple of its mayoral elections, but went back to the traditional method last year after the winner proved unpopular.
the pictures was taken by rachel andrews damon, being flown by pilot kenyon king.
it caused a 10 percent apple crop loss in pennsylvania and delaware one year, so it's nothing to sneeze at.
(oops - i'm mixing up my radioactive elements.
i wasn't going to link to the video because i don't want to encourage this  sort of silliness, but i guess i should:here it is.
" a highway marker for new hampshire's ufo-abduction pioneers the new hampshire division of historical resources and other cultural groups have installed one of those historical markers opposite the "indian head" formation in north lincoln, commemorating the time that betty and barney hill were abducted by ufo aliens.
hopefully they'll just get really wet.
here's a link to the brochure about the collection.
rggi created $404 million in efficiency, and nh believes climate is changing even as new hampshire ponders leaving the regional greenhouse gas initiative, the program says the 10 states in the pact have used $404 million in auction payments, mostly from utilities, to pay for various efficiency programs.
but the habit of the moose to wander across highways in the dark has made it a road hazard responsible for around 700 collisions a year.
i'm disappointed by our "create-a-wikipedia-article" attempt i'm a little disappointed by my call to nashua readers to create a wikipedia article in honor of the site's 10th anniversary.
merrimack police were called to mallard point road around 1:30 a.m. friday for the report of a suspicious vehicle.
the oil is intensively refined and purified at the company plant in fairhaven, ma.
a little wikipedia-ing showed me that a pyranometer is a solar flux density measuring device - basically a dome with black interior and various sensors that keep track of how much of each part of the solar spectrum is hitting the spot.
it goes out of its way to note that the group's chairman is a "life-long republican" and that one speaker is a "former republican congressman" who will discuss market-based approaches to tackling climate change.
what exposes you to more radiation: a nuke plant or a coal-fired plant?
march is their recruitment month.
despite the uncertainty about whether the state of vermont will allow it to continue operating past march, the vermont yankee nuclear power plant's owner, new orleans-based entergy corp., says it will spend $60 million to refuel the plant.
the camp consists of a dozen short (most last just 15 minutes) lectures and demonstrations about topics dear to the skeptics heart, including: * how (and why) to make a bed of nails * probability basics for skeptics *
nature's gross-out beauty:
did you know that a species of flying squirrel exists in the northeast?
the next one is june 21, on the future of food - be there!
speaking of magazine journalism, i have a freelance article for unh magazine to finish today ...
after replacing, the oven is as good as new.
november 19, 2011 maine's smart meters' signal may interfere with other wireless home devices i'm a fan of the "smart meter" program being installed by maine central power co., as well as other utilities including new hampshire electrical cooperative, but that doesn't mean it's perfect.
here's the globe obit.
did i scoff too soon?
the ship, the two brothers, was captained by the man who  previously led the essex, the ship sunk by a sperm whale - a story that  inspired herman meville to write "moby-dick."
that's a good thing, but it does have drawbacks.
may 4, 2011 the search for cottontail-saving scrubland is on saving the endangered new england cottontail requires not just breeding more of them in zoos and releasing them into the wild, but getting the right kind of wild land to release them into.
northern lights tonight, due to big solar flares?
(we're talking about data that, in theory, has individual patient information removed, although as has been determinedin this surprising/scary test, you can tease out people from "anonymized" data with suprising ease.)
this coming friday is wikipedia's 10th anniversary.
similarly, unh's barry rock has been doing spectral analysis on satellite photos of the state during leaf-peeping season to quantify changes.
may 29, 2011 epa considers tighter pollution controls on most home wood-burning heat tux turkel at the portland press-herald has a good, detailed piece on epa proposals to tighten pollution controls, particularly limits of fine-particle emissions, for most wood-burning heat sources used by homes, from pellet stoves to those obnoxious outdoor boilers (which, i learned from the article, are officially called "hydronic heaters").
it sounds interesting - alarming if you're mascoma - but the technology is also at such an early stage that it'sh hard to say how viable it is.
" customers also have access to hourly data through a web portal called wattwatchers, which was built in house.
" here's the story - it's a good one.
i don't know whether there are any species of "magic mushrooms" growing in new hampshire.
"you're losing as much as 90 percent of your input watts in  heat," said joe murdoch, a professor emeritus of electrical engineering  from unh who has written a number of books about lighting.
i went to zooniverse, which hosts a variety of these (including the best-know, galaxyzoo, which gets people to help categorize deep-space objects) and after some pondering have joinedold weather.
you can read it, in all its onion awesomeness, here.
" unh space scientists and engineers are currently working on projects toward that eventual goal.
my telegraph column today (read it here with some lovely photos) discusses its findings, which are all good news, unusually for environmental activism.
we've had more snow in the past, but  there have been intermittent warm days that make it slide off (i have a metal  roof).
deleted funding is probably more of an issue.
they include this phone number (253 243-2504) which connects to a recording of the digits of pi being read.
(my column has disappeared in a web system switchover, or i'd show it to you as well).
november 27, 2011 "fixing" rivers altered by irene isn't as easy as it sounds
by understanding these timing offsets, the research team can determine the role changes in ocean circulation had in the release of carbon dioxide from the ocean and how an increase in carbon dioxide in the atmosphere warms the planet.
it's enough to make me pick up a soldering iron and/or welding torch, and see how long it takes me to hurt myself.
however, this success creates financial vulnerability for the state when the lobster population crashes or declines.
but wall clocks and those on ovens and coffeemakers â anything that flashes "12:00 â³ when it loses power â may be just a bit off every second, and that error can grow with time.
the rochester, nh-based firm provides radiology (that is, medical x-ray) services for lots of doctors and hospitals.
to raise or not to raise - windshield wipers when you're parked, that is a couple of winters ago i posted about whether it was a good idea to raise your windshield wipers when you parked your car during a snowstorm (as shown in the file photo here).
the key paragraphs in a boston globe story about a measles outbreak in boston, started by a 20-something french intern, are these: for children and adults who have already had the recommended two rounds of measles vaccine, there is little reason to worry.
i really love this bit of the story: in a separate study, participants were significantly more likely to agree with a statement that desertification and drought were a growing problem if they were made to eat several pretzels before answering.
i got 1.74 inches overnight, from 5 p.m. when it started until 7:30 this morning.
this nytimes essay by a writer named alexandra horowitz says ebooks will kill them because it's killing the entire idea of a page, even though hyperlinks could be considered footnotes on steroids.
nh statehouse wants out of rggi greenhouse gas cap-and-trade addendum: new hampshire business review has a good story about the vote,  including the way psnh cannot recoup from ratepayers the money it has spent on  allowances.
" june 8, 2011 even the most secure of security tech firms can be hacked, as rsa shows
from the story (read the whole thing here): swartz allegedly broke into a computer wiring closet in a basement at mit to access mit's network without authorization from a computer switch within that closet.
climate-change  skeptics: (surveys) consistently show that about half of nh residents believe  climate is changing now caused by human activities; about 40% agree  it's changing now but due to natural forces; and less than 10% think it's not
as always, it's recommended for ages above age  8, and those under 13 must be accompanied by an adult.
on the other hand, "etaoinshrdlu" is gibberish to anybody under age 45, so maybe the rule is time-agnostic: any sufficientlyoutdated technology is also indistinguishable from gobbledygook.
light years to microns, we throw these units around as if we really have a feeling for them.
maybe it was part of one of those thefts of customer info which have been so endemic lately.
the most astonishing color-changed leaves i've seen this picture of crabapple leaves was posted by rick broussard, editor of new hampshire magazine, onhis facebook page.
i'll have to look into this a bit.
july 19, 2011 some of n.e.'s commercial airports rely on subsidies to keep service lebanon in new hampshire, rutland in vermont.
but haeg says that would be auto-setting, which is illegal in minnesota ... but legal in wisconsin.
and i had no idea what the lecturer said.
the units do seem to be wildly superior to traditional heat pumps when  they're working - but a major customer that used them on a new jersey air force  base says they fail a third of the time.
here is the city's explanation of the system (pdf).
the most  obvious different is that the total number of votes cast in the race would be  greater than the total number of people who cast those votes.
july 29, 2011 vermont utility coop goes for "big wind", big time large-scale wind projects have always had a mixed environmental image: good alternative to burning fossil fuels for electricity, bad disruption of relatively pristine ridgelines or mountaintops.
teaching the value of vaccines, through a board game
(not the meat-type substance)
read the column here.
here's the story - which notes that even replicas of clapton's guitar sell for $20,000.
jennings' first book "braniac," about trivia buffs, was surprisingly good; i figured it would be a lame pseudo-celebrity tome
recommended for ages 8+, children under 13 must be accompanied by an adult.
by coincidence, the complete genomic sequence of another delectable plant  species,theobroma cacao (chocolate), was published in the same journal  issue.
granite state skeptics says it has offered to investigate.
i have found, however, that for whatever reason, i can't learn truly new stuff while driving.
here's the wired piece, which notes that "these rolling and crawling bots are still pretty stupid.
but there is a non-trivial section of the economic and environmental community which worries about thejevons paradox, aka "rebound effect," in which greater efficiency leads people to use more of the product, negating energy savings.
hidden cameras in the woods, triggered by motion detectors of various types, have become a major tool in conservation studies, allowing us to take pictures, or make informal census counts, of animals at all times and in secret places.
make blog one of my frequently visited sites is the make blog, an assembly of  interesting projects that creative people are doing.
as i result, i'm trying to make a better leaf pile this year, one in which the interior heats up enough to kill the fungus, so i minimize its spread later on.
it includes an interview with the ip manager at theunh interoperability lab, who declined to give details about the results of the recent plugfest but indicated "work needs to be done.
a coupled, nested environment is one that links many smaller parts with a larger whole â in this case, the overall flow of water links different stream reaches into a larger river network.
"you can read the whole item here.
the water is moving naturally and carries much more energy that moving air, so let's use it to spin some turbine blades - voila!
a triglyceride like all fats, this oil was unique in its low temperature properties and in its stability against oxidation or gumming.
after reading up on the matter, loudenslager concluded that "these devices are capable of serious bodily harm, death, and can be classed as a deadly weapon."
in a surprising turnaround, the u.s. department of health and human services is agreeing with one of the critics' main points, and is calling for a reduction in some fluoridation levels "because of its presence not just in drinking water but in toothpaste, mouthwash and other products, causing splotches on children's teeth and perhaps more serious problems."
kids and adults are getting very good at circuit bending, making electronics do what is needed instead of what was sold.
digital media seems so bland and unattached to our normal lives.
we should still be grateful that he didn't decide to go south to rhode island.
get there early to get a seat.
roughly 8-1 ratio,  which is pretty average for snow.
7-year sentence for modem-hacking scheme a n.h. man who released malware that made computer modems dial special premium phone numbers, racking up millions in charges that he and buddies pocketed, has been sentenced to 7 years in jail.
the short biography of me they prepared noted that i drew the comic strip for my college newspaper, a fact that is known to few people, none of whom are involved with the farm & forest expo.
this usgs map records all u.s. quakes over the last seven days.
ranked voting ("instant runoff") election coming for portland's mayor next tuesday is election day.
i wonder how often i've done the same activity just because i didn't see the big picture.
karner blue butterfly in the onion: if we go down, humanity will go down new hampshire's best-known endangered species - the karner blue butterfly, which lives in a few pine barrens around concord - "writes" a column in the current onion that has this wonderful slant: i swear to you on all that is good and holy that before the karner blue goes extinct, myself and the last remaining members of my species will take out as much of the human race as we possibly can.
the article is here.
i'd love to see them start a program for sharing electric bikes - that would be fun.
my telegraph column talks about a local startup called electricroute developing hardware/software to help electric substations - those thousands of mid-sized buildings scattered around the country that take high-voltage power from transmission lines and step it down so it can be handled by local power lines - talk to each other and to utilities' main offices, which is an important step in making a "smart grid."
i've written about a couple other nh winners:icecode (developing a quick way to shed built-up ice, as on wind turbine blades) andelectricroute (improving communication among utility substations).
a glimmer of hope for bats dying from white nose syndrome a study of bats with white-nose syndrome in 2009 has produced a blimmer of hope.
it did the job, if slowly.
september 2, 2011 electric cars can be home generators during blackouts v2g is a tla (three-letter acronym, although "letter" isn't quite right) standing for "vehicle-to-grid," in which an electric car sends power into the grid, instead of drawing it out.
since we have a wood stove, i save papers to start the fire when i've let it burn out to empty ashes.
the glaciers pushed it down so much that it has taken 12,000 years to return.
colored dots indicate different patterns of marine debris.
there aren't an infinite number of suckers in the world willing to throw their money in the ring.
each state gets a minimum maximum number, taken from the  various stations.
if any voter's second choice is a candidate who's already been eliminated, the voter's third choice gets the vote, and so on.
they've got big, honkin' fuses up there on utility poles this photo shows two "cutoffs" on a utility pole near my house.
a mating ground for rare right whales has been found in the gulf of maine, about 60 miles offshore from bar harbor, reports the glove.
a facebook pool and a little mathematical reasoning reaches the surprising conclusion that it isn't 50/50: read it here.
i assume that on monday, people will only be thinking of the hurricane as it hits here, so i would like to have a hurricane-related science column.
the concord monitor has a story today about real spontaneous combustion,  however: a pile of oily rags burst into flame and burned down a restaurant.
granite geek january - november 2011 january | february | march | april | may | june | july | august | september  |october | november granite geek archive 2011 january 1, 2011 changes at the telegraph
no sign of lightning, so i assume it was just wind hitting the weakest of the five, and all the rest fell as a result maine lobsters are booming - are they booming too much?
'beetle-sniffing dogs' may be unleashed on worcester's infested trees some more trees infested with asian longhorn beetles have been found in worcester, mass., as the telegraph-gazette reportsin this story.
in the meantime, here's a really interesting read about "a day in the life of privacy" from securityweek.com - it raises many of the questions we hope to chew over wednesday night.
boingboing steve jobs memorial the classiest steve jobs remembrance every site on the web has something about steve jobs' death, but boingboing 's redesign of its site into "classic mac" fashion is the cleverest, i think.
the 62 neon sites will make some 270 measurements in their respective ecological systems.
the article is here: http://medicalxpress.com/news/2011-09-tinnitus-discovery-ways.html
it's when you have icy rain that  it really helps, i think.
my column today is about the status of ipv6, the bigger address space for the internet.
the story says he hit 200 mph in his handmade machine, open wheel and open cockpit, but hitting 300 required closing it up to reduce drag discovery center: using data from nasa satellites kevin hanley, graduate student in the department of earth sciences at the university of new hampshire, will discuss how data gathered by nasa satellites is used in his research, as well as investigations by other scientists at unh.
november 10, 2011 "when will my power go back on?"
(or maybe it was dial-up that was lost, since it was that long ago; i forget exactly.)
it had only happened a few days earlier, since the leaves were still green.
the only reasonable hope is to grow the fish from eggs in captivity.
july 15, 2011 northeast link power line map a 200-mile gigawatt power line that will be buried?
this is, by far, my favorite example: 138, years it would take to spend a trillion dollars at hart's turkey farm restaurant in manchester or meredith if every n.h. resident devoured the regular turkey plate every day during that stretch.
the system is also used in cambridge, mass.
dec is now part of hp, and is still  around, employing lots of local brainy folks.
these are from people that i've specifically chosen to be friends.
that's what central maine power co. says, in this press-herald article, and i can't blame them.
scientists know how this species responds to pollution, predators, day and  night, making it an important model for ecological and evolutionary research.
it's because numbers used to be handed out willy-nilly (here, have 10,000 numbers, whether you use them or not) and now they aren't.
the second of nasa's great observatories, at the time the science satellite was the heaviest astrophysical payload ever placed in orbit by a shuttle, and the delicate operation ended up requiring an unplanned spacewalk to fully deploy the observatory.
this is from a press release: out of the 2,600 trap samples the mfs staff processed this past year, "we got a lot of zeros" for such dangerous insects as asian longhorned beetle (alb) and emerald ash borer (eab), according to charlene donahue, mfs forest entomologist.
january 6, 2011 gps-enabled coyotes control rats and mice in chicago via braniac, i learned that chicago puts gps units on wild coyotes that now  live in the city, to study their habits.
this is fine by the telegraph, because the flyby comments had a lousy signal-to-noise ratio.
(older post on the subject here) turns out it was theforest service wildlife genetics laboratory in missoula, montana, which does dna tests on collected samples of hair, scat and carcasses of mountain lions throughout the country..
did you know you can buy new batteries for a fraction of the price of a new ups?
makes sense, except when the lot is crowded and you're pulling into a tight  space with little marging for error, since most of us need lots of margin for  error when backing up.
some environmental groups like bat conservation international think such a sweeping action is necessary if we're going to prevent complete extinction of at least two bat species in north america.
cost is $9 adults, $8  seniors & students, $6 children.
i hadn't seen preferred parking for hybrids around here before, although it seems it has existed for a couple of years under the leed building program.
i have replaced the earlier post with (an unedited version) of my story: the little white disks that washed out of the hooksett wastewater treatment plant last week and flowed down the merrimack river, creating an unusual litter problem on the beaches of new hampshire and massachusetts, exist for an odd-sounding reason: to give bacteria a place to sit.
any recent vintage car or truck has an alarm that sounds intermittantly unless the drivers belt is set.
but he says this isn't a free state project idea.
so many mayflies are hatching, it shows up on radar no local connection, but this is too cool to ignore: the current crop of mayfly hatchings along the mississippi valley shows up on national weather service radar!
i've never seen anything like them, so i did what everybody does online and swiped the picture!
with 1/2â³ tape, 60 inches a minute and 8 tracks, we recorded everything happening in the terrier or tartar missiles as they headed out inside a nutating radar beam towards a target drone.
they are one of those  products that summarize the weird wonder of childhood; the fact that you cooked  food with a 100-watt light bulb is just so charmingly goofy that it's  irresistable.
the four other 2011 finalists were iglobe of franklin, which makes display equipment; integra of hudson (whose high-tech pipettesi profiled recently); russound of newmarket, which makes multiroom audio equipment; and scribe software of manchester, which makes customer-relationship management software.
here's another thing to worry about as we move our wood inside.
" the report estimates that america's 104 plants have produced 65,000 metric tons of spent fuel, 75 percent of which is stored in pools at the power plants themselves.
a release from the division of plant industry in the state department of agriculture says bmsb and another pest that is on its way here but hasn't been spotted yet, the spotted wing drosophila (swd), "cause damage in a wide-array of agricultural crops, and both can subsist in non-agricultural plants, like forest and ornamental trees, in the absence of a suitable agricultural host.
more information on strawberry genome work at unh is at strawberrygenes.unh.edu.
fill empty time with something that will keep my neurons from fading away.
a wicked cool development idea for south boston i imagine this will never actually be built, but it looks so cool that it's  nice to fantasize:
the young female osprey, named saco, was equipped with the solar-powered, gps-enabled satellite backpack when it was 6 weeks old at its nest at the ayers island hydro station in new hampton in july.
here's the short answer, for the impatient: the pole hasn't moved enough, and nobody that i could contact knows why tampa had to change when no other airport did.
"it was a significant part of  starting many science careers," says thomas, noting that many  undergraduate, graduate and visiting students participated.
read the whole thing here.
that's my belief, but i'll admit that it can be creepy to have a stranger take your picture for no obvious reason.
or maybe the law should be changed to say  that any sunlight that originates entirely within new hampshire is exempt from  federal daylight savings regulations.
one finding: they're pretty good at  controlling rats and other vermin.
find your local food sources 3.
no word from the close-mouthed google about how long before these pictures show up online.
by the time the laurentide sheet melted 14,000 years ago, the crust was so depressed that coastal maine sea levels â the measure of how far sea reaches up on land â were 230 feet higher than today.
old-timers may recall the ban on commercial activity, which was thought to soil the purity of the internet.
one side effect has been that the idea of a rising sea due to climate change has become much, much more frightening.
short ap story is here.
learn how flat screen tvs produce colored images and how light is used in cancer treatments.
a brief history of the project will be given by project manager wayne santos, n1ckm, followed by the dedication with station manager peter stohrer, k1pjs.
i wrote about the report in april, but the new guide is much easier to handle.
this is an allergy season to remember - which means, to forget
during the early decades of this century the company operated an unusual "porpoise fishery" on the hatteras banks of north carolina.
these devices are used to read out signals generated by radiation detectors.
january 8, 2011 u.s.: many of us get too much fluoride i have long been critical of people who oppose fluoridation of public water  supplies, but it seems i am at least partly wrong.
full details are here.
i never run the chain saw without earplugs or headsets.
'corn snow' is a real pain in the neck if you're measuring it experienced weather-watchers have warned me that getting snow measurements  will get harder as the winter goes on and the snow turns into "corn snow " - a term for snow that has melted and refrozen over and over.
nine times out of 10 when i try to see a meteor shower it's either cloudy or the shower is a dud, but tonight's orionids has potential.
we're trying to handle it, but for the time being much deletion/marking is required - if you find that your comment has suddenly disappeared, i may have accidentally marked it as "spam" while wading through scores and scores of glop.
i've only gotten one fluoride is poison!!!!
(read it here) not a lot of ancestors of that cheerful group came over in the mayflower.
i'm talking to them today for a sunday business story for the telegraph.
the same rules also prohibit the possession of live fish, other than approved baitfish species when leaving any freshwaters of the state.
how j.c. penney fooled google and gamed xmas-time searches the ny times has a great, long article about how subtle link farms were used to push j.c. penney to the top of a number of product searches on google.
according to the photographers, that's mount washington in the background.
people want to find out what's cool . . .
i've had to modify the tank, drilling, tapping and adding a pipe nipple and tubing for continuous draining into the sink.
included in the filing a printout from www.us-government-torture.com,  offering links to methods to "neutralize the electronic attacks carried  out with exotic delivery methods using transmitters for large population areas,  implantable microchips and directed energy."
the figure in new hampshire is just a couple of percent, which includes medical and religious exemption.
return to menu september 1, 2011 n.h. joins suit to stop online ads for drugs, sex from the union-leader today: attorney general michael delaney and 46 other state attorneys general on wednesday requested information about how the website backpage.com attempts to remove advertising for sex trafficking, specifically advertisements that could involve minors.
there's a fascinating article in the bangord daily news about "witness trees": although "witness tree" is the name often given to trees that were in the area where certain historic events took place, such as the battle of gettysburg during the civil war, their fame in new england is for their roles in marking boundaries.
white pine makes up 2 percent of all maine trees and 4 percent of all commercial softwood, he said.
dartmouth, unh got $12 million-plus from national science foundation last year dartmouth and unh are neck-and-neck in terms of national science foundation funding, according to an analysis for mass high tech.
there's a hefty upfront cost (up to $40,000 per $200,000 truck, due largely to the cost of the tank, which has to hold gas under 3,600 psi) but lower fuel cost and lower maintenance cost down the road - and big environmental benefits, of course.
another measure, "prescription benefit requests" increased 10-fold over that period in the state.
the massachusetts water reserve authority has  installed turbines in some pipes that feed water by gravity from the quabbin  reservoir, getting 1.2 million kilowatt-hours* a year from the system (110  homes worth of power, by mass. calculations).
"daphnia's high gene number is largely because its genes are multiplying, by creating copies at a higher rate than other species," said project leader and cgb genomics director john colbourne.
(read the story here)
there may be others i've missed.
popular science and popular mechanics have brought back the pages encouraging fun projects, even those considered dangerous and are supposed to be supervised by a cooperative adult.
discovery center educator bob veilleux will talk about how different it is from the mars exploration rovers, spirit and opportunity and the details of its mission.
talk about a disruptive technology.
the column looks at the way hunting rules can be used to control the demographic profile of the herd - in this case, to keep down the percentage of males who are under two years old.
most thermostats only go down to about 50 degrees.
i'm writing a story for the sunday telegraph about mountain lions in nh, spurred by the fish & wildlife service's decision to declare the eastern cougar extinct, as noted inan earlier blog post.
just going through the  "pit" where teams scramble to repair their robots is enough to give  hope to anybody who despairs of today's not-do-it-yourself society.
consider this line: "it appears that an extraordinary lapse by lottery officials last year allowed a group led by an mit computer whiz to single-handedly hijack the game, winning more than $2 million - nearly the entire jackpot from a single drawing.
( this cocorahs pageexplains the process and shows one, which can be just a piece  of painted plywood.)
and i could play in the leaf pile.
this detailed information about our solar system's boundaries will allow scientists to better understand how galactic cosmic rays evolve in our space environment, which in turn will provide fundamental information about the radiation environment on earth and its implications on the evolution of life.
that's just the kind of question that european regulators are asking.
july 23, 2011 150 electric car charging stations coming to boston, probably it's hard to know how much of this is vaporware, but coulomb technologies now says it will install at least 150 electric car-charging stations in boston, and is looking for businesses to apply.
february 18, 2011 "ghosts" like to show up on reflective surfaces - gee, i wonder why?
so i can play in the leaves and not worry about coffee grounds or banana peels!)
june 14, 2011 bruins v. canucks is shaping up like the presidential electoral college
it took the recommended three coats to build up enough base thickness.
they crawled all over the bird in a frenzy, diving in and out of the body.
by enlisting the help of drivers dutch drivers, van vliet hopes to determine when and where insect populations are most dense, and how climate conditions may impact those figures.
so far it has five anti-fluoride comments, but they're all pretty  reasonable and rant-free (although one does use the word  "fluoridationists," which is a new one to me).
she made a couple of calls to st joseph's.
this outbreak of a disease that can spread like wildfire and kill people is a reminder why mandatory vaccinations were instituted in the first place.
from the gannett storyin the burlington free-press: "vermont's law, similar to measures in maine and new hampshire, prohibits pharmacies from selling prescription information for drug marketing without a physician's consent.
new england's all-time peak usage was aug. 2, 2006, when it hit 28,130 mw.
i just spent 10 minutes busting through the crusted-over 16" of snow  (yesterdays' storm ended with icy rain, ugh) trying to find the friggin' thing  and had to give up.
incandescent bulbs, which force electricity through tungsten wires until  they come so close to melting that they glow, have been described as space  heaters that release light as a by-product.
both liberals and conservatives were similarly influenced by the raised temperatures, and the effect was present even when attention was drawn to the temperature of the room.
those rules are for us little people.
saying that tests of a beetle called laricobius nigrinus show it to be  relatively successful in reducing wooly adelgid populations in new england,  perhaps protecting out hemlock population.
for some reason, arabic-speaking wikipedia editors are really interested in certain u.s. states, but not others.
i just know that they are going to wind up in their kids piggy banks so are effectively out of circulation.
why are the region's insect-eating birds declining?
that includes the wettest, second-wettest and third-wettest years on record, as well as the third-driest year on record."
arguments were made monday and the appeal of a $67,500 fine taken under advisement.
i just got press material from it about an upcoming conference on the effects of climate change that is headlined "conservative republicans organizing nh climate conference."
if that doesn't beat face-painting, i don't know what does.
i have a short piece in the latest unh magazine, a publication of the college, about ways to better predict tick populations so that people can better plan for their trips into the wild - or even into the field next door.
via the inhabitat blog (here).
vermont yankee has an interesting deicison to make about refueling
the new magnetic field opposes the original magnetic field, just as eddy  currents in water run opposite to the original current.
it raises your risk by varous amounts ofmrem (thousands of a rem) received annually depending on factors such as your altitude above sea level, whether you wear a luminous wrist watch, whether you have porcelain crowns, etc.
i wrote a couple of stories after the halloween snowstorm talking about the relative fragility of phone connections over internet and/or cable modem (they go down and stay down when the power's out; old-fashioned landline phones usually stay up), and ended one with a semi-joking comment about how ham radio always works.
the new yorker had an excellent, long piece about it in december that is well worth a read (here), while the ny times has a piece about it today (here).
the weird thing is that it rained like crazy yesterday - 1.64 inches in my cocorahs gauge - which usually clears out the air.
i would be no better than he in discussing ancient measuring systems for greek amphoras, those odd shaped vessels used to ship wine.
human behavior is changing the climate and causing lots of astonishing stuff to happen, yes - but sometimes folks go overboard.
ig nobel awards adorn "science friday" on npr today
spotting photoshopped picture via the magic of mathematics i first wrote about hany farid, a computer science professor at dartmouth, and his mathematical calculations to expose manipulation of photographs, back in 2003.
the world showed him how this could work, and in 1991 he, marta greenberg and david dick created mv communications, new hampshire's first isp.
you can read it here in the washington post.
what it doesn't mean, he said, is that each vote must be for just one  man.
the beauty of this method is that only a micrometer-thin layer of ice directly at the ice-material interface is heated without having to heat the bulk of the object to which the ice is stuck.
just something else to worry about.
digital delivery of the e-text package is managed by the unh bookstore, which assigns a unique authorization code to each student for access to the course content that doesn't expire and can be transferred from device to device.
once in a great while a diode fails but the usual problem is an accumulation of grease on the window that lets the energy into the food compartment.
as a  result, there is a state law (rsa 21:36) that says eastern daylight time  starts weeks later in new hampshire than in the rest of the county (first  sunday in april rather than second sunday in march) and ends weeks earlier  (last sunday in october rather than first sunday in november.)
it would also make it harder to spot certain types of ballot-counting errors because overcounts â in which more votes are counted than ballots cast â would no longer be obvious.
the last red envelope showed up in the mail today, about five years after we first subscribed.
the atlantic magazinehad this story - but nothing about them sniffing asian longhorn beetles.
after all such stories i get lots of emails, calls or web postings declaring that somebody or other hass definitely seen a mountain lion hereabouts; i have chased down several of the more promising of these claims and they have always dissolved in the light of close examination - alas.
it can be nasty stuff, and has overwhelmed many streams in new zealand, among other places, choking them with its slimy presence.
those five finalists were selected by the judges from a larger pool of candidates in october.
is this the first retail-level ipv6 deployment in new hampshire?
the high cost (roughly double earlier estimates) led environmentalists to say it was a waste of money, because it does nothing to cut carbon emissions, while psnh insisted that the scrubbe should be built, partly because they get a guaranteed return on the capital expenditure.
we scroll the pages on the screen and they disappear into the aether.
march 2, 2011 don't you want to get up early and measure snow in the morning?
to me, it's no mystery.
january | february | march | april | may | june | july | august | september |october | november return to menu january 1, 2011 changes at the telegraph
" i think they should be celebrated as entrepreneurs.
"it's a little bit different, but it's the kind of thing that grows on you," he said.
wallace's e-book was not immune to de-footnoting, though; all these crucial asides now appear at the end of the book in the kindle and ipad versions.
cool! that, in turn, led me to poke around and find out that i'm way behind in this area.
(we're talking real goethermal, as in hot water turning turbines, not "geo-heat-exchange" as the term usually means hereabouts.)
1 in 8 people who ever lived are alive today
now it's for writing blog posts.
from the announcement: "critically, our approach is 'native dual stack' which means customers will get both ipv4 and ipv6 addresses.
you can read the story here.
"we now have a resource for everybody who's interested in strawberry  genetics.
among its points: "what many people don't realize is that the available bandwidth problem is being compounded by the rapid growth of machine-to-machine (m2m) communications that use wireless technology as all or part of its communication process
self-driving package-delivery drones controlled by your cell phone?)
at this rate, in 10 years it'll be like seeing canada geense - you'll share your fist at the darn things as a nuisance rather than a pleasure.
the plant uses 200 flywheels spinning in vacuum chambers to deliver bursts of power as needed to compensate for wind/solar variation, and more importantly to provide frequency regulation, which helps to stabilize the electric grid by balancing power supply levels.
i couldn't reject the normal sounds of radios and people talking around me.
i no longer take those snow depth totals that i see on the tv weather reports very seriously.
super stellar friday: "interstellar travel" @ 7 pm physicist and self-described ufo researcher stanton t. freidman, who believes in the betty and barney hill abduction story among other things, will present an illustrated talk at the discovery center.
dec is now part of hp, and is still around, employing lots of local brainy folks.
march 9, 2011 "magical thinking" makes us buy celebrity stuff i'm suffering from a covering-town-meeting hangover, so i'll indulge in a quirky non-local tidbit: an ny times story about social scientists tying the habit of paying big bucks for celebrity stuff, like eric clapton's old guitar, to superstitious beliefs and "magical thinking" about properties being linked to physical objects.
here's an ny times piece about their meeting with the u.s. secretary of  transportation.
… in both phases, the cellulosic material is treated by water at a pressure and temperature that is so high that the water is neither steam or an ordinary liquid but in a form known as "supercritical."
i've got 25 inches of snow in the yard now with a lot more supposed to fall.
nobody was in the room to be  reflected, they claim, so ghosts are the only possible explanation ... and
me neither, but now i know why it exists: it has spotted the arrival of the brown marmorated stink bug (bmsb), an invasive pest from east asia that was spotted in pennsylvania in the 1990s and which has spread to 32 states.
nashua uses suspended growth treatment system, which depends on the bacteria floating around in the water and sludge.
from unh news service: university of new hampshire scientists have received national science foundation funding to explore how small-scale ecological experiments can be applied to understand the behavior of entire ecosystems, part of the agency's nascent effort to investigate large-scale biological responses to climate and land-use change.
april 19, 2011 irs says e-filing of tax returns ends apr. 15 rush at post offices from the union-leader today: according to the irs, 101 million e-filed returns were received by monday morning â an 8.8 percent increase from last year.
consider this story from the bangor daily new, then shake your head in befuddlement.
there's something appealing about decay and rot - that's why people visit ruins, among other things.
new radar can tell the difference between rain and sleet the national weather service in taunton, mass., which covers much of southern new hampshire, will be getting access to an updated doppler radar that "will provide meteorologists with a three-dimensional image of water particles by sending and receiving pulses of radio waves in both a horizontal and vertical direction," says the globe.
it's "dick and jane" meet a  proto-carl sagan; very fun.
he has told me of evidence pointing to a dimming of color, perhaps due to what seems to be a decline in sugar content in maples.
telescope viewing begins at 7 pm.
a quote: it's looking as though residents will end up adapting, too.
july 28, 2011 who tested the dna to confirm the dakota-to-connecticut mountain lion?
march 9, 2011 "magical thinking" makes us buy celebrity stuff i'm suffering from a covering-town-meeting hangover, so i'll indulge in a  quirky non-local tidbit: an ny times story about social scientists tying the  habit of paying big bucks for celebrity stuff, like eric clapton's old guitar,  to superstitious beliefs and "magical thinking" about properties  being linked to physical objects.
you'll want to built your own version, i guarantee it.
*is "song" the right term?
(you may have seenthis bbc video.)
the foundations slid down the eroding cliff face to  their current positions on the beach."
the findings are detailed in an article in the journal science this week.
april 15, 2011 going really, really (really!)
the agency is still evaluating the benefits of brine versus its cost, rogers said, but acknowledged, "i'm a big believer in it."
in april of last year, a million similar disks escaped the sewage treatment plant in groton, conn., and washed up along nearby beaches.
this photo shows two cutoffs, or fuses that operate on high-voltage lines atop utility poles.
depends where i measure i measured snow depth this morning with my wicked cool tenths-of-an-inch cocorahs ruler in two locations about 50 yards apart, separated by my house.
raising tropical fish from eggs - in maine?
in addition to measuring what the atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide, methane, and other gases were in the past, the research team can also determine what the surface air temperature was in the past by studying changes in the isotopic composition of the water that makes up the ice.
another advantage is that when i'm not home, the furnace zone for the shop is absolutely off.
if you know much about the field you'll find the story pretty rudimentary - but hey, we've got to start somewhere!
a subscription costs $13/month, either digital only or with a 7-day newspaper subscription, and costs $6/month with sunday subscription.
however, it is not shutting, as i reported earlier.
they're a reason that you're not reading new hampshire nerd, after all.
that outcome would be dismaying to new england, of course, but it would make the series a perfect metaphor for the presidential electoral college, a system that makes it possible, as happened in 2000 and three times in the 1800s),for one person to get more total votes (i.e., score more goals) and yet lose the election because they captured fewer important states (i.e., win fewer games).
not everybody is thrilled by this study, as i note: some fear it's a backhanded way to return a hunting/trapping season on bobcats, which ended in 1988.
" a bit of quick searching finds a youtube video of it from 2009 and another from 2007.
they caution that lots of snow doesn't mean lots of moisture: the winter storms brought more snow, but less rain to much of the united  states said the national climatic data center.
weirdly, i somehow smashed my left big toe, which is blue, swollen and throbbing.
we all thought this was a hoot, but maybe we should have been kinder: roughly the same thing happened to most of the broadband in scotland recently, when a rat chewed through a buried fiber-optic cable.
that federal fizzle, combined with the way rggi prices have collapsed because the recession reducing the short-term need for carbon offsets, has taken some of the wind out of its sails.
heres a globe story.
specifically, he has developed and refined a modeling method whereby data gathered at individual ecological "flux tower" research sites across north america can be "upscaled" or extrapolated to provide a statistically accurate picture of carbon fluxes across the entire continent and encompassing different ecosystem and climate types.
it was an incredibly gorgeous night, too; warm breeze keeping away the mosquitos.
july 25, 2011 i've never seen preferred parking for hybrids and levs (levs?)
the portland press-herald has a good piece today about how warm weather has helped delay and mute the season:read it here.
psnh and hydroquebec cals the project the northern pass, and the big  problem is that it would require cutting scores of miles of new rights of way,  usually through wooded areas and over ridgelines.
it's because his project is one of 49 asking for crowd-funding help at scifund.
the writer included a very amusing discussion of how he arrived at the monetary calculation of smaug's horde, including the estimate that the dragon's breast was covered with 38,900 arrow-deflecting diamonds.
a wicked cool development idea for south boston i imagine this will never actually be built, but it looks so cool that it's nice to fantasize:
earle rich mont vernon, nh april 23, 2011 ash tree treasure i just had four ash trees taken down on the street in front of the house.
there the animals were caught in huge seines which were dragged through the surf to shore.
ipv4  depletion for u.s. companies isfully expected to occur in 2011.
that's always good …
makes sense, except when the lot is crowded and you're pulling into a tight space with little marging for error, since most of us need lots of margin for error when backing up.
the above photo by don himsel, taken during our visit to a dpw work site yesterday, show why nashua is getting rid of its unique-in-the-world (so far as i can tell) triangular manhole covers: they're too small for today's workers wearing various safety equipment.
that study recommended seabrook plan for a 3 to 5 feet mean sea level rise by the year 2100, and at least 1.5 feet by mid-century."
"basically it means that cape cod is rotating clockwise about half a degree per millennium," said adams.
like bird-watchers, except they watch butterlies my telegraph column this week is about the (to me) obscure pasttime of butterfly-watching, which is exactly like bird-watching (life lists, field guides, trips to special places to see special species at special times) except you don't have to get up as early, because butterflies only come out when it's sunny.
you turn it on, making the end glow blue, stick it in your water bottle, then wiggle around for 20-30 seconds until the light goes off, indicating it has done its job.
it has also been observed utilizing alternate hosts like crabapple and dogwood.
i think i'll put "maphead" on my christmas list.
they're looking for more.
i did a back-of-the-envelope calculation (half-million leaves, one in 10 holds an ounce of snow) and came up with a whopping 3,000 pounds of snow that could be sitting up there.
stampone said 2010's warmth came early in the year, with very high  temperatures for january, february, march and april followed by mostly normal  temperatures for may through december.
future plans for the station will also be presented by santos and david mcdonald, education director at the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center.
january 2, 2011 coal power in u.s. - 'a dead man walking'?
the most interesting thing to the outsider is that the teams can have average ratings of no more than 2400 (senior master level, well below grandmaster) and so you can't just load up on superstars; you've got to balance the roster.
i love those triangular covers, because they're unique so far as i can tell*, and just plain cool.
no turning, or mixing of carbon and nitrogen sources, or any other effort.
do hidden cameras alter the wildlife behavior they're trying to study?
here's a story from 2009 about cornell researchers releasing the bugs,  which are native to the pacific northwest.
our januarys are getting warmer, our julys not so much january is getting warmer in new hampshire, but july might be getting slightly cooler, according to new data by national oceanographic and atmospheric administration.
i also use them to hold jigs in place on the table saw.
virtually all of lake champlain's water flows into the river, which runs north toward montreal.
the short biography  of me they prepared noted that i drew the comic strip for my college newspaper,  a fact that is known to few people, none of whom are involved with the farm  & forest expo.
it's a good piece covering what will eventually be $100 million worth of temporary roads.
some of us can't stand to be inside in the shop when the weather is so nice outside.
among the interesting ideas: google's $30 prize for a private company to land a non-human on the moon.
the conclusion: from soup to nuts, including the impact of making those big batteries, even an electric car that gets its juice from a nasty coal-fired plant is equivalent to a conventional car that gets 45 mpg.
i never really believed it, and a new map coming out of research funded by google, which likes geothermal a lot, supports that suspicion.
new hampshire laws and administrative rules prohibit the  introduction of non-native species.
october 7, 2011 energy grid plans to start factoring in home efficiency iso-new england, the folks who run the region's power grid, had a big presentation for reporters yesterday.
http://www.cracked.com/article_19481_the-8-most-wildly-irresponsible-vintage-toys.html here's the link to that article i just read.
more information here.
the article ends with an interesting twist that will probalby piss off google ever more: j.c. penney is one of the largest purchaser of paid ads on google - so perhaps the company was less inclined to crack down on its link farming?
one book i had forgotten about, handed down from a great-aunt's weird husband, was called "bones for the archaeologist".
as i note in my telegraph column (which ran yesterday, because we don't have a paper on july 4), two possible bills may come up in the fall to get creatonism into the classroom.
it seems that when the federal government changed daylight saving time back  in 2007, new hampshire forgot that that we have a state law on the topic.
july 20, 2011 bike-sharing program set to begin in boston i'm dubious as to whether bicycle usage can really reduce the use of motorized vehicles in this country, but there's no doubt that the rage for bicycle-sharing programs is cool.
here is the nh health and human services page about it.
the biorefinery is planned to have an annual production of 40 million gallons of low-carbon cellulosic ethanol, to be covered by the off-take arrangement with valero.
and speaking of bandwidth limits, mass high tech has a good piece looking at the way they are affecting various companies who sell services online or otherwise depend on lots of bandwidth.
the lines would bring 1,200 megawatts of power down from large quebec hydropower dams, roughly equivalent to the power output of seabrook nuclear plant.
sunscreen information this is the time of year when applying sunscreen is most important.
"it's all part of the investigation.''
the pre-clovis hints are now very, very strong, according to a paper in science that finds stone-chipping societies in texas 15,500 years ago.
now 100,000 is barely the start of middle age.
unfortunately, that works out to be 8000 cords or 400 times more than the real dimensions of 4 feet high, 4 feet wide and 160 feet long.
massachusetts, connecticut and rhode island have none;here's the list, in pdf form.
august 11, 2011 terrorists send bombs to nano-technology professors in mexico
the tentative schedule is that he'll be at enertracin hudson, a remote-sensing firm that is building a niche in energy reduction, at 11:30 a.m. (hmmm ... will i be drummed out of the new hampshire press association if i ask for his autograph?)
"i'm certain we'll do a debrief, figure out ways to make it better."
visiting the nuclear research lab in the heart of cambridge, mass. cnet's green tech column has a piece, with a bunch of photos, about a visit  to the mit nuclear research laboratory, whose mission "has changed over  the years, most recently shifting its primary emphasis from medical research to  experiments on new materials and fuels for nuclear power."
they are raising clownfish (as in "finding nemo") and dottybacks, although after several years they're still having issues, ranging from figuring out the best way to feed them, to finding ways to heat water without spending a fortune.
to be perfectly  honest they were not the best-written of stories - creating dialogue, as i  found when i tried writing novels in my youth, is much harder than it looks -
"the plants are  less expensive to build, and current forward price projections favor gas over  coal."
ice reflects sunlight, and scientists say the loss of ice is causing the arctic ocean to absorb more heat in the summer.
but that seems a little cowardly in today's political environment, when state's rights are all the rage.
the full article costs money.
ticks and lyme disease lyme disease is the most common vector-borne disease in maine and the second most common of the reportable infectious diseases in maine.
this is a good thing for the world, but  salon points out that it has an odd side effect: the easy bake oven is going to  hurting.
use caution in tick habitats ticks must be attached for 24-48 hours before the bacteria can be transmitted, so prompt removal of ticks is extremely important.
thank goodness the web doesn't have scratch-and-sniff functionality ... may 22, 2011 environment and jobs vs. environment and jobs - ship-launching version there's an interesting debate around the bath iron works, as reported in the portland press-herald (read it here): when to dredge the kennebec river.
is this the first ipv6 deployment in new hampshire?
february 28, 2011 let's hear it for back-in parking my telegraph column today urges more people to consider back-in parking (an item i mentioned here a couple of weeks ago).
new hampshire is relatively low, at 16 percent - fifth-lowest in the country.
slate has a review today of a new book by jeapordy uber-champ ken jennings called "maphead" which details the world of the map-obsessed.
sometimes things just work out.
check it out, and shake your head in dismay.
i've been out of town for a few days, so i  wanted to get a snow-water-equivalent measurement of the snow in the yard,  since the warm weekend lowered the levels from 22 inches to about 14 inches.
this year was more normal, reports the union-leader ( read it here)
you buy high quality rain gauge, get a little online training, and become part of a web-based data gathering national network that, among other things, gathers data to help predict flash flooding.
yet these numbers are important.
the 140-pounder was hit in milton, connecticut - not exactly wild lands.
" white pine normally holds two year's growth of needles, ostrofsky pointed out.
in wandering through news websites i found a story from the burlington  free-press discussing vermont practices.
i've written about his work a couple of times, but it still makes me depressed.
a look at the path of the northern pass power line a union-leader toured the route of the proposed northern pass power line,  accompanied by a critic, and filed a report printed today.
i knew where my was, though ... or so i thought.
and now i'm going back to shoveling snow ...
" if an earthquake happens in the forest and nobody notices, did it make a tremblor?
the cutoff on the left is still intact, whereas the one on the right has been "blown" by a short circuit, cutting off power to some customers.
this isn't big news, actually - as u.s. fish and wildlife service says: "although the eastern cougar has been on the endangered species list since 1973, its existence has long been questioned. ...
from the statement: "today, cmos image sensors are  a fixture in camera phones, and other applications include digital slr cameras,  embedded web-cams, automotive safety systems, swallowable pill cameras, toys  and video games, and wireless video-security networks.
these "timber mats" have evolved over the years from loose logs to 16-foot-wide paths of hardwood logs bolted together.
carrier-grade nat (cgn, also known as large-scale nat) will  suffice as a stopgap measure, but it comes with its own set of problems read the whole article here.
i have some heavy metal working machines and i didn't want any floor cracks, especially with the heating tubing embedded in the concrete.
all in all, it was a sobering reminder that tighly held principles often feel different when you encounter them in the real world.
too much beer, i guess.
here's an assessment of the 2008 ice storm power outage, with discussion of the topic in appendix b.
we wouldn't stand for it!
this includes locating a moving harvester in the field, synchronizing with it, collecting its grain and delivering that grain to trucks near the field for transportation."
"definitely tough to roam around in.
the principal investigator for factel is jim ryan, with mcconnell as co-investigator and ssc research assistant professor peter bloser, research project engineer jason legere, and graduate student manuel jullian also involved in the project.
car in rochester was stuck on the ice and the driver gunned it so hard and so long, trying to get off the ice, making the tires spin so fast they caused the car to catch fire.
the monitor has an article today that takes a local aspect: that towers may require faa approval because they might go near the city's airport, unless existing rights of way can be used.
but i'll be thinking of the slow (quick?)
i've only seen one or two out of a hundred or so fixed that have a bad control board.
i had 8 1/2 inches at home at 7 a.m., so it looks like we'll easily top a  foot before this is done.
no library passes, astc, or other discounts accepted.
measles outbreak in boston leads to emergency vaccinations
http://www.air-n-water.com/reviews/eva-dry/edv-2200
jonathan osgood, energy conversation coordinator for the state public utilities commission, said the decline is a reflection of the fact that small-scale wind power often doesn't work as well as people think it will.
i am, alas, susceptible to the ^%$# stuff, and it isn't getting any better with age.
the argument, basically, is that you should go forward when there is more  uncertainty because the driver can see better than when backing up, and there's  more uncertainty when leaving a space (all those other folks zipping around the  lot) than when entering it.
there's lots of "it's too early to tell" in it, i'm afraid.
to help built meteorological enthusiasm, it has been running state climate summaries by each state's climatologist.
building a "shadow internet" to go around the bad guys here's a job any thriller-loving geek would like to have: "a group of young entrepreneurs who look as if they could be in a garage band are fitting deceptively innocent-looking hardware into a prototype "internet in a suitcase."
either way, it's good that tinnitus is being recognized as a serious medical problem.
there is much opposition to big, ugly power lines (these dc towers are enormous; we have a set here in southern nh) in the north country.
thirteen months and a day from today, i bet the dozenal society (fans of the duodecimal system) is going to be freaking out.
as always, it's recommended for ages above age 8, and those under 13 must be accompanied by an adult.
discovery center: first shuttle landing eyewitness account this year marks the 30th anniversary of the shuttle's first flight.
one finding: they're pretty good at controlling rats and other vermin.
the whole story is in dean shalhoup's column today in the telegraph -read it here.
it includes this insightful interview query: it is difficult to hike up the mountain in costume?
you can read the improbable research blog here, with links to the study and to marc abrahams' full column in the uk paper the guardian.
ostrofsky said that the maine forest service and other new england states in cooperation with the usda forest service are conducting a regional survey to more accurately delineate the range of the fungi across northern new england.
i love the copies found at used bookstores that have prices on them in shillings and pounds … no e-book will ever have that sort of nostalgic aura.
it's got some impressive pictures; this is  a huge operation that handles 16,000 tons of stuff each month.
"this gives voters more options ... to reflect how they feel  about all the candidates," mcguire said.
its native distribution is recognized as extending from the delaware river drainage in pennsylvania to the savannah river drainage in georgia, as well as portions of the ohio river basin.
indoor fireplaces aren't covered, under the theory that they're ornamental more than heat-related - and, critically, existing units aren't covered either, even though they can pollute like nobody's business.
on february 5, 1971, with command module pilot stuart roosa staying in orbit around the moon, commander alan shepard and lunar module pilot ed mitchell touched down on the lunar surface in the fra mauro highlands.
but why did they have to call the eventnerdapalooza?
report warns about spent fuel in cooling pools at nuclear power plants, including vermont yankee and seabrook the vermont yankee nuclear power plant has more used radioactive fuel stored in pools at the plant than is stored at all four of the japanese damaged fukushima daiichi reactors, says a new report that raises concern about the long-term safety of such storage.
(confession: i've never been able to solve the cube.
too many cheese pizzas and not enough cleaning can start a smoky fire.
presentations will be given on the apollo 14 mission at 11:30, 1:30 and  3:30 pm on saturday and sunday with a specialtonight's sky planetarium  show at 2 and 4 pm focusing on the moon.
i like this quote a lot, regarding east creek: "at some point, it's going to get to the far side of the valley and then it's going to move back.
it is one of the places where tens of thousands of the disks have washed up in recent days, leading to volunteer efforts and lots of argument about who has to bear the cost.
"national grid intends to file plans with the massachusetts department of utilities at the end of this year to implement a smart grid pilot program for 15,000 customers in worcester." september 21, 2011
the mit museum has been refurbished and will reopen this weekend, part of a  bunch of celebrations about the school turning 150.
>may 7, 2011 mice, more than deer, are villains in the lyme/tick story
still, at 35 cents a pound, it paid for the gas, maintained the boat with just a little left over.
one is coming to boston soon (globe story here ) and i'll have to go down and try it out, although i'm a lousy bicyclist and have never biked in the city.
people who drop peanuts into their cokes before drinking them?
check out the number-crunching here.
unfortunately for those who have invested, its price has crashed,as arstechnica reports.
the best part of the story is the fact that they left the corpse there: "we're just letting nature take its course.
unless one of them wins a nobel prize, of course.
i scavenged a couple of ovens from the dump and one of them had a transformer close in size to the failed one.
march 30, 2011 how far does a cat's sneeze travel?
macmulkin chevrolet in nashua expects to have a show model on the lot next month, although it won't have floor models to sell for a while due to gm's cautious rollout.
the iso report is here.
may 17, 2011 nerd vs. geek ... there's a big difference kudos to nashua high school north for honoring academic excellence ...
if it works as planned they'll save $150,000 a year, which means a roughly  15-year payback on the $1.8 million system.
while unh has been expanding its digital textbook offerings, this is the first time an entire class has used only a digital textbook.
special events are free with paid general admission.
the station will now be called the mumley-rust  memorial station.
it's cranberry harvest time years ago we took the kids to nantucket for the day to watch the cranberry harvesting.
pilgrim doesn't need state approval, however, while vermont yankee does, thanks to vermont's unique set of state laws.
this is no political surprise, since the republican party is unsympathetic to cap-and-trade and dubious about human-caused global warming*, and the gop dominates new hampshire.
here are the results for new hampshire and its neighboring states: state / min. - max.
what's next: crystal radio sets?
come to concord tonight (7 p.m.) for the first science cafe nh forget about attending the kids' softball game, zoning board meeting, or choir practice - tonight you need to be atthe barley house restaurant in concord at 7 p.m. for the first science cafe new hampshire, featuring a discussion about the science and technology of coping with climate change in new hampshire - with the state climatologist, keene city planner and a unh professor.
"they look like honeycomb cereal, a little bigger than that," said mario leclerc, manager of the nashua wastewater treatment plant.
one option to control humidity and decrease the mold and fungus is to run the air conditioners for three quarters of the year.
a proposal for a housing development in south boston with a  checkerboard, slanted "green roof."
" it's a good article - read it here.
among other things, they'll be able to tell the difference between rain and sleet, which can make all the difference in winter weather.
the interesting thing to me is thatthe ferrite co. foundered largely because it spent tons of money developing giant microwave ovens to dry out coal and make it usable - a technology that never panned out.
the purple prisms are about 24 inches long and hang vertically in an ash tree or are secured to the trunk of a tree.
it was the only location east of the mississippi on the list, and it was very borderline in terms of producing cost-effective energy.
the epa thinks this idea is interesting enough that it gave them $15,000 - hardly a vast sum, but it can't hurt - as part of its people, prosperity and the planet (p3) grants.
rr auctions, an online auction house in amherst, has a bi-annual sale of stuff related to spaceflight and aviation.
a key tidbit: "today's best lithium-ion batteries can hold about 200 watt-hours per kilogramâa measure of energy densityâand they might theoretically be able to store about 400 watt-hours per kilogram.
it was a great story of the little guy leading the way to a more efficient world.
and if you want a slightly more in-depth discussion, this slashdot post claims that ipv6-only hosting (as compared to parallel, dual-stack hosting) won't make sense for years.
outside the metro areas, at&t offered the best balance of speed and coverage.
read it here, or savor this takeout: we owe it to our readers to present everybody's ideas equally and not to ignore or discredit theories simply because they lack scientifically credible arguments or facts.
the end product is a better understanding of what genes matter for organisms to cope with environmental stresses like pollutants and global warming and of the technologies necessary to understand how these genes function within an animal that is easily studied in water reservoirs around the globe.
addendum: john harrigan, the north country columnist for the union-leader, writes about it in the sunday u-l - he thinks it's probably a bad idea, too focused on creating "trophy" animals.
but the agency's history as a political football suggests it is unlikely.
hasbro, salon says, is going to replace it with "the easy-bake  ultimate oven.
instead he went and found out what they were:northern flying squirrels a.k.a.
here's the story from treehugger.
a portion of a map of geotagged wikipedia articles an amazing result from mapping wikipedia articles you'll never guess what this map shows.
the bottle has lots of big words about "works in 15 seconds" and "relieves itching" and "removes poison oils" all over the bottle.
that's a slow, cold, wet process.
the nao is a large scale seesaw in atmospheric mass between  the subtropical high and the polar low."
the facebook distribution is a little more disturbing.
no local connection here, but it's too intriguing not to mention: a  michigan start-up is trying to develop a wind-power system with no moving  parts.
if these properties are out of whack, suspicions are raised.
this interactive  presentation will allow students to actively participate in investigations with  light.
if you were absolutely convinced that road asphalt was causing your heart to defribrillate, would the local road agent have to rip up the street in front of your house and replace it with, say, crushed walnuts?
some large percentage place the trays as they should with the broad end matching the outer circumference of the table.
opponents say it's pointlessly confusing and doesn't accomplish anything.
our wet, cloudy, cool spring/early summer demonstrates this weakness perfectly.
there's a short video if you want to take a look at how sad they are:here's the story.
i wrote about the eddy current effect from the same facility back in may  2009, but the friggin' item isn't linkable: i can only find it via a search  query that can't be linked.
cademartiri acknowledged that the phenomenon is complex with several effects occurring simultaneously.
the trick is to tell the serious from the hoax, and (the owner) believes his background in social work helps.
but you can watch them anyway on a special page on the telegraph's web site that, if all goes as planned* will host the live video feed from the ceremony.
alas, i finally talked to the guy - it turns out he saw week-old, cougar-like footprints pointed out by other people, who say a nearby deer carcass had been moved during the night, just like cougars do.
check out some video from burlington here, where lake champlain hit an all-time high water level yesterday.
massachusetts is one of many states bringing up the issue again (as the globe reports here), spurred in part of financial problems.
new hampshire public radio and the concord monitor's weekly paper will have coverage of last night's event.
that was nearly the same percentage of collared moose killed by hunting and moose-vehicle collisions combined.
cfls are really a transition technology.
more details are to be released wednesday.
i have emailed/called the blitz several times over the years to do a story and they've never responded.
we were the last of the 10 states to join, three years  ago.
as part of cmp's push it plansa $200 million project to replace 600,000 mechanical meters with wireless digital versions - "smart meters," in the vernacular - that create a two-way information flow to help it handle the flow of power on the grid better.
an ice fishing tip-up that launches a model rocket i have just stumbled upon (via boing-boing) what may be the ultimate geeky  northern new england item: an ice-fishing tip-up (the little device that  signals when you've gotten a bite) which doesn't spring the usual flag, but  which launches a model rocket!
on the other end of the measurement spectrum, a micron, a millionth of a meter is also without real meaning to us.
it was the first time that more than 100 million had filed electronically in any given year since the e-file program went national in 1990, the irs said.
june 26, 2011 how many of our legislators have college degrees?
the article argues "many municipal and rural co-ops are more advanced in terms of smart grid when it comes to their investor-owned counterparts.
be there or be naive!
and i went skiing today, up at loon in the white mountains.
here's a bangor daily news story.
so it was intriguing to see that dc comics is going to a digital delivery model, selling digital versions on the same day that print versions go on sale.
here are some money quotes: after the ice storm in 2008, when thousands of new hampshire residents were without power for a week or more, the state public utilities commission hired a colorado engineering firm to study the prospect of burying the state's power lines.
from the report: i estimate i have to give away 446 copies of the ebook for every sale of the print edition.
march 20, 2011 self-publishing a tech book is no way to make money there is a general idea in the "information wants to be free" community that people who write can make a living by giving away their work, because this will increase their overall audience and as a byproduct increase the small proportion of people willing to pay for your work.
noaa establishes these 30-year norms to compare annual temperature swings, and updates them each decade.
we loyal patrons who remain  paid subscribers want it to continue forever, or at least until we make that  final phase change ourselves.
this is new hampshire's 2011 blog of the year best blog (i looked at the plaque more closely), says thenew hampshire press association, which gave me the award today at its annual dinner - a luncheon this year, since times are tough in the new business.
i certainly hope that if an afterlife does exist and has some ethereal connection to this world, we aren't forced to spend eternity flitting in and out of reflective surfaces in restaurants.
(note that the vast majority of the states 240-some-odd communities don't have a public water supply, and so can't add it.
also explored is wind shear, a measure of how speed increases with height, and a common source of complaint when the wind is blowing stronger at the turbine hub than on the ground.
january 27, 2011 organic led coating from nh startup gets a funding boost $100,000 isn't much in startup terms, but i'm sure the grant was welcome at  innovacene, a durham, nh, startup trying to commercialize a unh professor's  work on thin, organic, surface-emitting semiconductor coatinsg for use in  organic light-emitting diodes, or oleds.
sales matter the most.
the unh team will receive $250,000 for the 11-month implementation concept study, after which nasa will determine whether the project goes forward.
it is 7 to 9 p.m. at the barley house in concord (across from the statehouse on main street).
saturday will have activities including helicopter rides, rocket launches, an all-new planetarium show, aviation and space exhibitors from all over new england, battlefield laser tag, bungie run, human gyroscope, cookout food, face painting, balloon animals, mad science, space memorabilia appraisals with one giant leap, inc., animal encounters with granite state zoo, and much more.
this is the website for the conference.
it's tonight in cambridge, mass., at 7:30 p.m., a benefit for the catalystcollaborative@mit science theater project tunes include the elements; lobachevsky; stress analysis of a strapless evening dress; the mini-opera atom & eve; the coffee diet, and much more!
they put up the occasional advertisement.
there was a lot more information in the message given to the national park service, but on reading the fine print about distribution, i chickened out and am just providing the link for more info.
an international team of researchers comprising the daphnia genomics consortium, including four from the university of new hampshire's hubbard center for genome studies, has described the complete genome of daphnia.
they're asking people to keep an eye out for bmsb and send "high  quality digital photos or specimens to the task force involved with determining  how widespread it is throughout the state."
if you google "australian anti-vaccination" you'll find a group with the misleading titled australian vaccination network, which peddles the "right to choose" mantra as a thin cover of the usual pseudo-science/political antivax hysteria.
here is the us geological survey's page on the earthquake history of new hampshire: http://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/states/new_hampshire/history.php march 16, 2011 japan disaster - is it a push for "mini-nuke plants"?
building temporary wooden roads changing america's power system should provide new jobs, or so everybody hopes, but they're not always the jobs we think of.
the article is about greeley park, nashua: this is it.
a mating ground for rare right whales has been found in the gulf of maine,  about 60 miles offshore from bar harbor, reports the glove.
i have an old hybrid, and this was a small sample, so your mileage may vary, quite literally.
mcdowell will conduct field work in puerto rico on a tropical dry forest stream dominated by mullets and freshwater shrimp.
all these secondary uses come to us on newsprint as they have for hundreds of years.
from the press release: "lockheed was interested in implementing an alternative esd solution to traditional aluminum foil that is typically bonded to the surface of composites.
supporters say such alternatives create a better reflection of the electorate's overall opinion that the usual voting method, which is called first-past-the-post, or single-member plurality.
her name is mei-ling lam andhere's the press-herald story.
various events are being held around the world, part of a loosely organized thingamajig calledyuri's night.
on a slightly related note, larry hamilton of unh points out that surveys  by the carsey institute say the state's public isn't friendly to
we saw a dozen, although some were barely visilbe through the trees (temple isn't like mount mondanock with its 360-degree clear views); we also could hear what i assume was peterborough's display, but couldn't see it because the hill blocked it.
my telegraph column today is a borderline rant about how the out-moded technology of incandescent lights should have disappeared from homes a while ago.
both are well-deserved, of course, but looking through the list (www.toyhalloffame.org/toys) led to an appalling realization: rubik's cube isn't there!
i've missed  several days and i've only been doing it six months.
once i escaped maine and saw the world, i could never go back.
i wonder how the heck they found that out?!?!
there's a big program in alabama (see it here), and even the epa wants to help them return to the beleaguered chesapeake bay (here).
the deep purple, it turned out, was the beetles' antennas-down favorite.
in fact, mcguire thinks new hampshire voters should be allowed to vote for  as many people as they want in any race.
return to menu april 1, 2011 bug-eating bats mean billions for agriculture, but not so much here a boston university bat expert has made an informed back-of-envelope estimate of the value of insect-eating bats to american agriculture.
last year, the needle diseases became epidemic following high infection levels caused by the excessively wet summer of 2009.
one of the mantras in biomass power these days is "combined heat and power" - not just generating electricity but using the waste heat as, well, heat in nearby buildings - so the eco-conscious folks in vermont are pondering whether to do the same with theirmcneil generating plant.
a light that lights up whenever the space station flies overhead if you're a make magazine kind of person and a space fan, you'll love this: a lamp that lights up when the space station flies overhead.
but as the article says: "the future of these emerging charts may hinge on whether they can draw a meaningful line between buzz and commerce.
we *like* so-and-so is improving but so-and-so- is fading coverage.
to find the site,check the state's leukemia page (here) and click on the environmental health data integration network (ehdin) link.
but, (there's always a but) the size of the equipment for these small rooms isn't really an option.
august 29, 2011 over the weekend, noaa's gauge at the mouth of the souhegan was predicting a crest of 9 feet by this morning - but it's barely 6 feet.
here's a quick item from mass high tech.
cleaning it up properly makes another oven for a college student or other needy person.
it never occurred to me to ask.
ll of new england is being hit by canadian arctic weather.
buying a full album on itunes or in physical form affects the ultimate chart much more dramatically than streaming a song on pandora."
i melted it down as part of mycocorahs precipitation-watching duties, and got 2.05 inches of water.
don't worry if you don't get the joke.
several fungi appear to be the cause of the needle damage, with three fungi of particular importance, ostrofsky said.
the rivers rose alot monday due to the water from irene, and according to a nearby hydraulic gauge the flow is almost 900 cubic feet/second, which is about four times what it was last time and more than 20 times the usual flow for this time of year (when it's usually very low).
fungus from a wet year is ruining some leaf-peeping i have a story in the sunday telegraph about widespread fungal disease and how it's squelching the color from alot of foliage this fall - including the maples at my home, which are pathetic this year.
it was exactly the sort of intelligent conversation that a room full of adults should have.
but many others are doubtful, saying the recent events are unexceptional, or that more evidence over a longer period would be needed to establish a link.
march 18, 2011 what exactly do those sewage-treatment disks do?
perhaps we need to do something like that to get these coins in circulation.
you can see bostonglobe.com free for this month.
(detailed report of that storage here.)
not their usual sort of fare (thankfully).
some folks, like d.c. and paris, have really embraced the programs - but i suspect they're mostly used by tourists and/or for novelty rides, not actual transportation.
i spotted it via this grist article.
a low-cost print-on-demand option also is available for students who prefer a physical book.
up north, extended warm weather and increased tick population is a problem for moose, which can carry so many of the parasites that they become anemic and weak, asthis fish and wildlife article notes.
nute got it exactly right for me: i have oak and silver maple limbs all over the place.
from the story: no one is quite sure what will be affected.
these are occasionally used in circumstances such as electing boards  to professional organizations or other organizations â€“ a  variant of approval voting was used to elect the pope for several centuries,  for example â€“ but are almost never used for government bodies.
there is one internet blog that seems to have the most up-to-date and accurate information.
for their project, entitled "stream consumers and lotic ecosystem rates (scaler): scaling from centimeters to continents," mcdowell is the unh principal investigator; wollheim is co-investigator.
we could create a militia to line state borders and keep out clocks showing massachusetts time.
maine man drove his car 1 million miles and gets a hometown parade i know a couple of people who are hoping to push their old cars to 250,000 miles, but i've never heard of somebody racking up 1 million on a single car until i readthis portland press-herald story.
the business world is usually pretty conservative, in a fiscal/business  way.
february 28, 2011 let's hear it for back-in parking my telegraph column today urges more people to consider back-in parking (an  item i mentioned here a couple of weeks ago).
the museum's site is here.
here are the details.
the wais divide project is specifically investigating the small timing offsets between past changes in the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse gases and changes in temperature.
now you can call up satellite views of the deepest desert in almost real time.
i zoned out of half of it, suddenly realized that an entire track had gone by
says mcconnell, "the universe started out with just hydrogen and helium and everything else came from the interiors of stars and supernovae.
i melted it down as part of mycocorahs  precipitation-watching duties, and got 2.05 inches of water.
but how does it work?
we loyal patrons who remain paid subscribers want it to continue forever, or at least until we make that final phase change ourselves.
changes in normal temperatures.
it will stay in place unless voters upend it - the next mayoral race is in four years.
the work is being overseen by noaa's woods hole laboratory.
hanta virus found in somerset county, maine this from my brother who works at acadia national park in maine.
"i don't want to slight shakespeare," said anthony carnevale, one of the report's authors.
as the state  public utilities commission notes, natural gas is a big and growing player:  "gas-fired electric generation in new england accounted for less than 1%  of its electric supply in 1980; however, today it accounts for over 41% and is  expected to increase to 49% by 2010.
somehow, common  knowledge isn't all that common.
it works because unwon big prizes are sprinkled down to lower levels, raising the expected payout for the smaller prizes.
they're updating it again, judging from the google street view car, spotted by nashua resident chris malloy on wednesday on broad street.
all in all, these appliances are very reliable and seem to last forever.
now you don't have to just complain about lights washing out the stars, you can measure the problem in apparent magnitude per square arcsecond.
as well as nashua, manchester and the manchester airport, coverage will be found in other parts of the merrimack river valley (bedford, goffstown, hudson, litchfield, merrimack, pelham) - plus loudon, presumably because they can sell a lot of minutes to people visitingthe racetrack.
that's a good thing, even if it comes from a painful cause.
from the mid-50s until the blizzard of '78, for example, it was in a negative phase more often than not, accompanied by some of the snowiest years of the past century.
here's the keene sentinel report.
red is upward motion; blue down.
read an ap story here.
there was a big psychic fair scheduled for this saturday at the radisson hotel in nashua - a fake-castle affair that is quite noticeable to people driving up the interstate from massachusetts.
sounds intriguing, however.
his talk, at 3 p.m., is free and open to the public ... darn it, why do i have to be at work?
big north country wind park gets federal loan guarantee a planned 99-megawatt wind farm in coos county has gotten a conditional loan guarantee of $136 million from the u.s. department of energy.
daphnia genomics consortium  projects are featured athttp://daphnia.cgb.indiana.edu.
the bruins have the best logo in sports, i think.
(a note about the system, which is branded northern pass: it would run 140  miles of dc lines from the canadian border to franklin, in central n.h., where  a $250 million (oops) converter terminal would switch it to ac power  that would be carried 40 miles to the deerfield station.
the confederacy's engineers were not impressed.
but i certainly saw enough commercials for them.
" at the 6th annual nhhtc event held monday, a large audience that included gov. john lynch saw five companies competing for the poy award with judges awards.
the complicated story of trash-to-energy plants trash-to-energy plants sound, on the face of it, like a no-brainer - they get rid of something we don't want, turning it into something we do want.
imagine if gas stations installed pumps that spilled four-fifths of everything you bought.
the first cruise liner to use portland's new "megaberth" left three hours early tuesday, stranding lots of people, because the opposition of the sun and moon made low tide particularly low, and the captain was worried about getting stuck.
or they could breed more disease-resistant berries, decreasing the significant amount of spraying that cultivated strawberries currently need to thrive and thus enhancing the berry's healthful qualities.
the ribbon appears to be wrapped like a belt on top of the globally distributed emissions of the broader sky, and by separating it from the background emissions scientists can now see what's underneath the ribbon.
it is unbelievably foul, like cough syrup crossed with carbonated antifreeze.
bobcats are returning to the area - for better and worse
once you get past the sarcastic descriptions, don't you feel just a little envious that we can't now play with stuff like this?
that federal fizzle, combined with  the way rggi prices have collapsed because the recession reducing the  short-term need for carbon offsets, has taken some of the wind out of its  sails.
"there is no indication at this point that the rosyside dace could  cause recreational or economic problems; however, ecological impacts to the  native fish community are possible depending on the ability of the species to  expand its range and successfully propagate," said glenn normandeau, fish  and game executive director.
january 20, 2011 2010 was new hampshire's warmest year on record last year was the warmest in new hamnpshire since records began to be kept  in 1895, according to mary stampone, unh professor and state climatologist.
they're interested in the business aspect - oysters are a high-value food - but folks are seeking to return filter-feeding bivalves to coasts for environmental reasons, too, since they do a great job of cleaning tidal waters.
friedman thinks it's possible to get to the nearby base stars of the famed betty hill "star map" (which berry drew from memory long after the abduction).
june 10, 2011 some diversity of opinion on climate change in gop ranks sorry for the political note again, folks, but since i was critical recently of the way gop presidential hopefuls have to kowtow to the climate-change deniers, i should note that this isn't universal:
the prototype is meant to test technology ahead of a pilot wind farm in 2017, which will have a capacity of roughly 25 megawatts.
yet if he had voted for both of them his ballot would have been  tossed out as invalid â€“ even though it would have been an  accurate reflection of his wishes.
the number of moose in northern minnesota has declined, and it's not  certain
i love this paragraph: most of the baseball cranks of today are confident that the national game will continue to hold its prestige through the coming century, and that it is likely to be played at night as well as by day, inasmuch as the illuminating methods of the future are reasonably certain to practically banish darkness from our cities.
the traps were out from april through october, and staffer collected samples from each trap two to 12 times during the year depending on the type of trap and the life cycle of the targeted insects.
what's behind that argument is a confusing study in the uk.
the needle damage has been reported from as far north as township 7 range 12, he said.
giant microwave oven to dry coal wasn't a good business plan the telegraph has a story about a nashua firm that makes microwave components, which has emerged from bankruptcy by slashing staff and dumping contracts.
still, i subscribe to the telegraph and magazines because paper is real.
august 16, 2011 chain letters when i was a kid, chain letters were very common.
when it comes to american flags, however, it might be different.
a second engineering test being performed on this flight, led by research assistant professor peter bloser, involves a new type of detector technology known as silicon photomultipliers.
the species'  identity was recently confirmed by three independent researchers.
contact devon kurtz, dkurtz@higgins.org, with any questions.
the ig nobels are coming!
i have been mixing goat manure in with it (there's no leaf-jumping any more; the kids are in college), and turning it and watering it occasionally (which is a real pain in the neck) to encourage the growth of microbes that generate waste heat as they munch on organic stuff.
in fact,  he could have voted for john lynch, as well.
you can read it  here, and it's worth the click through.
in time, they see the heaters complementing development of wind power in the region, which tends to be most available in winter and at night.
in fact, most post offices no longer extend hours to accommodate the rush of procrastinators who used to pack in at the very last minute on tax day, which was moved from april 15 to april 18 because emancipation day, celebrated in washington, d.c., fell on friday.
he has sponsored a bill, hb240, which would tweak ballots for local and state elections in new hampshire by "allowing voters to vote for multiple candidates for an office."
april 30, 2011 new england will have enough electricity this summer iso-new england, the organization that oversees new england's power grid, says we will have enough electricity generation this summer even if we get another record-breaking heat wave, as in 2010.from the release: following a 2010 summer that broke several records, 2011 demand is predicted to peak at 27,550 megawatts (mw) under normal summer weather conditions of about 90 degrees fahrenheitâslightly higher than last year's actual peak of 27,102 mw.
last year (2010) the honorees included: italian scientists who demonstrated mathematically that organizations would become more efficient if they promoted people at random; new zealand doctors who showed that people slip and fall less often on icy footpaths if they wear socks on the outside of their shoes; and a chinese/british team who scientifically documented fellatio in fruit bats.
scroll down on that noaa page: it notes that arctic sea ice is way below  normal.
kreuger says the disks have a whopping 1,200 square meters of surface area for every cubic meter of material â 200 times as much surface area as exists on similar amount of material in the shape of a cube.
dennis ritche (creator of c, unix) was at least as important as steve jobs new hampshire's linux uber-dude jon "maddog" hall pointed out to me the disparity in news coverge between the death of steven jobs and the death within the past week of dennis ritchie, who wrote the c programming language and co-created unix.
this peregrine was originally banded on the precipice in acadia nationalpark on mt. desert island, me in 1994, so she was 17 years old.
the part i liked best was the number of days per year that it rained,  snowed or sleeted.
state's oldest isp, mv.com, is shutting down i reported this news prematurely last month, but now (alas) it is true: mv communications, the state's oldest internet service provider (it started w-a-a-a-y backin 1991 and the domain name was registered in the positively prehistoric 1988) is shutting.
the situation has been going on for a while.
"this project will allow us to track this bird continuously for up to three years as it migrates across the equator, and is part of a larger new england-wide project spearheaded by dr. richard o. bierregaard, a distinguished visiting research professor at the department of biology at the university of north carolina," said macleod.
it was as part of a new project by the squam lakes natural science center.
my wife was watching me doing my weekly snow-water-equivalent measurement this morning: pack the full depth of snow (16" - melting has begun) into the rain gauge, then pour in measured amounts of hot water to melt it down.
the union-leader has a story here .
rocketry is still one of my intense interests limited now to bottle rockets using water and compressed air to launch 2 liter soda bottles a few hundred into the air.
the public says it doesn't like "horse race" coverage of politics, but we really do.
if his law goes through â€“ which mcguire admits is  unlikely, at least in the short term â€“ he could have voted  for both stephen and babiarz even though only one seat was involved.
june 18, 2011 boston is a champion city - but what about professional chess?
the drilling site is about 600 miles from the south pole where the ice  flows out to the sea in opposing directions â€“ an ice divide.
but as bill dedman of msnbc notes, the plants with the highest relative risks are all on the east coast, because the perceived lack of earthquake risk means they were built with less protection that plants in california.
the complicated machinery behind 'single-stream' recycling cnet's green tech blog visited a huge single-stream recycling facility in  massachusetts, and talks about the cool machinery that separates paper from  plastic from various metals - including "eddy current" magnetic  fields that can be used to separate aluminum cans, even though aluminum is not  affected by magnetism.
the internet has been clogged with these for years, usually sent by people with a new computer and email account.
to increase the attractiveness of the trap to the beetles, it is baited with a lure (manuka oil).
i was a clapton freak as a youngster, but i don't think i'd ever  cough up  $960,000 for his old guitar.
massive offshore wind farm gets (slightly) closer off rhode island update: ny times green blog has a lot more about the plan, including a proposal to use a new type of rotor with 165-meter rotors - holy cow!you can read it here it's not much past the arm-waving phase but deepwater wind has made a federal application for a big wind farm in relatively shallow water well off rhode island - and i mean big: up to 1000 megawatts, which is more than twice the size of the beleaguered cape wind plan.
webworms in the trees: messy, not harmful
another stake in the heart of anonymity.
u.s. eastern standard time  on january 24, 2011.
watching a dozen fireworks displays at once from temple mountain i'm not a big fireworks fan, so last night, instead of swatting mosquitos and waiting in traffic to watch a display, i went up temple mountain with my wife and a friend, to see how many displays we could watch at once.
more details about the clash between wireless broadband and gps
the talk will precede an annual poster session by college science students.
it will discuss how our scenic, albeit small*, coastline should prepare for rising ocean levels and more extreme weather.
this seems like an obvious idea, but one in which the finances might be  tough to justify up front:
so i can't link to it, (here's the story online now, in a bit more readable fonts) and here's the unedited text for you granitegeekoids to ponder in advance.
i believe this is the first year they've given a best blog award, and it's quite possible that no other newspaper even entered the category, so i'll try not to get too swollen a head.
further, mascoma, valero, and mascoma's operating  subsidiary,frontier renewable resources llc, jointly owned with natural  resource management company, j.m. longyear llc, have signed a non-binding  letter of intent to support the construction of one of the world's first  commercial scale wood-based cellulosic ethanol biorefineries, slated to break  ground in 2011 in kinross charter township, michigan.
the study also showed, alarmingly, that life expectancy is falling in parts of the u.s. - usually poor areas with more minorities - apparently because of obesity and other chronic lifestyle conditions linked with poor medical care.
i suppose this is a sort of minor cultural moment, like the start of cable tv or when video stores stopped renting videos, or when i dropped america online.
i wonder how long before we hear the phrase "conflict turkeys" in the northeast?
it's free, although you have to buy your own food and drink.
"rock snot", flooded into the hatchery, and officials are worried that the fish might carry the algae with them if they're released into the connecticut river or lake erie basins.
march 23, 2011 spotting ticks with lyme disease ... from space?
it's not easy figuring what will run fast and what won't.
dartmouth got $12.98 million, unh got $12.26 million.
i didn't until a reader, dave bushee, wrote me wondering about a weird sighting in his yard: there were around 30 or 40 what appears to be grey chipmunks all around the area of the feeder.
however, based on  observations, des biologists estimated the population to be in the hundreds.
"we've had comments from other state and from people who got early rebates, that they were discouraged.
i've always liked that noise, for whatever  reason.
approval voting is one type of alternative voting schemes, which have  names like cordorcet method and instant-runoff balloting.
i'd forgotten all about mp3.com, back when the term "mp3â³ was still cutting-edge and cool, at least to my age group.
and, despite the daphnia's near-microscopic size, it contains more than 31,000 genes, more than any other animal with a complete gene sequence, including humans.
in addition, as the  science of genome sequencing evolved in the past decade to use "fewer  pipettes and more computers," says thomas, the hubbard center forged  strong bonds with unh's computer science department, in particular professors  dan bergeron and phil hatcher.
how j.c. penney fooled google and gamed xmas-time searches the ny times has a great, long article about how subtle link farms were  used to push j.c. penney to the top of a number of product searches on google.
it can make and sell without overloading its network.
itzhak perlman in which he was asked why so many of the world's great violinists are jewish.
march 3, 2011 discover center friday: 'cosmology and future telescopes' at the mcauliffee-shepard discovery center tomorrow, march 4, a presentation of planetarium showtonight's sky will be held at 7 p.m., followed by a talk from martin ratcliffe, writer for astronomy magazine and former president of the international planetarium society.
" is the total number of children in the world now at its maximum?
november 23, 2011 mydarksky.com quebec has an official "dark sky" site - why can't we?
for years i've had one for food scraps and one for leaves - i separated them so the kids
the access allowed him to download materials from jstor, a non-profit archive of scientific journals and academic work.
i guess this phenomenon is not that uncommon.
nothing is secure, i guess.
back to our regularly scheduled disasters: tree-eating invasive bugs hurricane irene didn't do as much damage as feared hereabouts, so we can go back to worrying about other destructive threats - like tree-eating invasive beetles.
the globe's story today summarizes it thus: "though many elements of the dispute border on the absurd, the case raises some serious free speech issues.
november 4, 2011 not as many wireless-phone-only homes in n.h. as i expected i'm doing a story about how wireless and cable modem communication fared in thestorm - the essence of the story is that nobody really knows because there's no regulatory oversight, like there is with electricity and landline phones; you have to depend on what the companies tell us.
this is more than three times the average number of strandings that typically occur this time of year.
that is likely to be the recommendation of a blue ribbon commission studying nuclear waste disposal, according tothis report from platts, a power-industry publication.
the hope is that this discovery will lead to new methods of containing or eradicating rock snot before it turns most of the nation's mountain streams into slippery, insect-deprived wastelands.
a spokesman responded to my query about rights-of-way and construction/financial details by saying that nel "is in the very early stages of development and as you know is being proposed as an underground, high voltage direct-current line, but the project isn't yet far enough along to get into the details on trenching, etc. july 17, 2011 going out in a kayak to uproot water chestnuts we're heading out this morning to the upper reaches of the nashua river to help the nashua river watershed association pull up invasive water chestnuts - a nice way to get on the river on a hot day and feel virtuous.
these range from car shredders (which used magnetic  drums that can be 8 feet wide and must weigh umpty-bazillion pounds) to  coin-operated machines.
the panelists (technology attorney cameron schilling and comcast spokesman marc goodman) really made it work.
(update: after writing this post, i found another tick crawling on my arm on the drive to work.
this is a good thing for the world, but salon points out that it has an odd side effect: the easy bake oven is going to hurting.
to noon; more information at www.youcandothecube.com.
he ended up voting for stephen because babiarz had no chance of  winning, which is the sort of "gamesmanship" voting that he'd like  new hampshire to avoid.
i just dropped them all into the car of alcohol on our kitchen counter for this purpose, because it's so hard to kill ticks otherwise.
'skype on a super roomba' - a videoconference robot i have a story in the telegraph today about a local company selling a  "tele-presence" robot; basically, you connect in from a pc and  control the thing, so you can wheel around the office "talking" to  colleagues.
the assumption is that a fisherman dumped it on the way home because he/she didn't have an ocean-fishing license.
eddy currents are new to me but they have long been used in a bunch of  different technologies.
there truly *are* some things that are beyond human understanding july 11, 2011 verizon wireless opens lab to develop 4g services verizon wireless has built a big research lab in waltham, mass. to figure out what sort of services (streaming music?
looking at things in public is part of our right to exist freely in a functioning democracy, and that right includes the right to record what we see or hear.
(see my alternative energy map here for details)
the operator was part of google since its launch in 1997 and built into every search engine since.
read the article here.
earle rich july 13, 2011 a "makerspace" opens in nashua - lots of tools, lots of goofiness i have a profile in the telegraph today of make it labs, a new "makerspace" that has opened in an industrial part of nashua, next to the railyards.
the new yorker recently had a terrific article about the technology behid the software, and the fact that its originator remains anonymous:read it here.
here's a press-herald story.
it's puny in terms of output, too, able to generate five megawatts of thermal power, compared to 1,000 megawatts or more of electric power (or about 3,000 megawatts of thermal power) from a commercial nuclear power plant.
the snowfall looks the same in both locations - but in one place it says 24 or  25 inches, differing slightly by location, and the other says 18 or 19 inches.
they also work better than bills in vending machines.
i'm going to visit one of the replacement jobs this morning.
the times has finally embraced external links in its stories, so it led me to the i nternational music score library project, a wiki-based project that uploads pdfs of classical music, presumably because they includes scores that are old enough to avoid copyright issues.
"plus, there aren't that many of them out there," mcconnell said, "it's a very difficult measurement to make."
here's the press release, which included the graphic i have attached here.
reintroduced wild turkeys becoming a problem out west - a sign of things to come for us?
skipping vaccines has gotten so bad in parts of the country that some doctors won't see those family's kids, out of fear their parents' ignorance will spread harm to other patients, asthis usa today story notes.
the move was pushed by dec cofounder ken olsen, who led its push to create  a minicomputer alternative to mainframes.
it's remarkable how effective this is.
don't worry if you don't  get the joke.
she may well have died or been killed by another peregrine in february or march.
computers are supposed to take the place of hands-on experiments.
they are harvested by divers who use dynamite or squirt a poisonous solution to stun the fish, killing already fragile coral and other non-target organisms.
june 15, 2011 new england's life expectancy is high and is rising fast
i discovered the national phenology network, a citizen-science initiative to gather information about how plants and animals are changing as the climate does.
dry rock salt bounces when it hits the road surface,  and a significant amount can end up outside travel lanes.
the goal is to keep the reactors stabilized long enough that the shutdown can completely shut down.
the heaters range from room units to whole-house models that also warm water.
or they could breed more  disease-resistant berries, decreasing the significant amount of spraying that  cultivated strawberries currently need to thrive and thus enhancing the berry's  healthful qualities.
you get it through five steps: 1.
n.h. firm makes high-tech versions of that laboratory staple: the pipette
the key to this movement, organized in canada back in september 1992, is to counteract over-consumption.
i've written about mv a number of times over the years, most recently in 2009 when the mv.com domain name turned 21.
playing offmount washington's self-branding as having the "worst weather in the world."
(yes, i had to put a footnote in this post.)
as i have mentioned before - probably too many times - i have joined a  volunteer group called cocorahs (community collaborative rain hail snow  network).
the gamma ray polarimeter experiment (grape), which was designed and built at the space science center within the unh institute for the study of earth, oceans, and space (eos), is an effort to apply a new type of detector technology to the study of celestial gamma rays.
so far as i can tell, the salt some from sea air, which builds up on insulators, eventually conducting electricity where it shouldn't go.
are of the "cold composting" types, which means i throw everything in a pile and leave it for a couple of years.
here's a decent overview of the different types of plastic, from medicinenet.
â i've more than once responded harshly to distant friends, especially when on the road with a slow connection.
but despite the fact that the expso had (as it says in this laughable calendar listing) "up to 25 different readers including: angel readings, psychic/intuitive readings, mediumship, astrology and more..." nobody predicted that the owners wouldsuddenly go bankrupt and throw everybody out, cancelling the show abruptly!
lightning striking a tree will appear a bright, fiery orange/red color for the length of the channel traveling down the tree.
here's the wired piece, which notes that "these rolling and crawling  bots are still pretty stupid.
one of the groups opposed to the similarnorthern pass proposal wants that line buried, but its owners say the idea is too expensive and outlandish to even study.
mark twickler, who heads up the wais divide science coordination office at  unh, says the ice cores are five-inch diameter cylinders that get cut into  one-meter (three feet) sections.
"it's personally a major achievement," says w. kelley thomas,  hubbard professor in genomics and director of the hcgs, adding that the daphnia  sequence was among the center's original goals at its founding in 2001.
commercial composting, which needs to kill off pathogens and create sellable product in reasonably short periods of time, have to be more systematic and intelligent about it.
a screenshot of my old weather site, transcribing records from hms perth in the red sea ("persian straits") in april 1918 transcribing old royal navy weather reports for 'citizen science'
i can fill gaps in existing knowledge as long as they're not very big gaps, but that's about it.
as soon as those words left my mouth, i realized that the sentence would have been absolute and complete gobbledygook during 95 percent of my career.
it has lots of good background information and suggestions about organizing approaches and directing research, but the "action plan" section avoids the most contentious issue: whether to close access to all caves on federal land, to protect isolated populations, until we know more about the disease.
questioning the receptionist didn't reveal any reason beyond "we can't do that".
that number reflects an increase of approximately 50 percent between 1990 and 2004â³ due largely to the increase in the deer herd all over the country.
fromthe ap story: the ballot is too complicated to be understood by the city's voting machines, so only first-place votes will be announced on the night of the election, said caleb kleppner, vice president of trueballot inc.
valero's participation in the project strengthens the financing package for  the kinross biorefinery, complemented with funds from the state of  michigan, through the michigan economic development corporation (medc) and the  u.s. department of energy (doe).
i mention this to lead into an excellent item from the nasa earth  observatory showing a picture illustration snow cover in the us throughout the  month of january.
an amazing satellite photo of "cloud streets" stretching over the  ocean astonishing photos from satellites have become almost old-hat, but this one  (spotted at nasa, via its twitter feed) boggled my mind.
you may wonder how i know this of a west coast guy.
while we all listen to the wailing and gnashing of teeth generated by red sox fans throughout the northeast (update for non-sports folks: the team blew a historically large lead and will miss the playoffs), i would like to remind boston-area sports fans that they have an outlet:
tonight in concord, 7 p.m.: science cafe about vaccination science cafe new hampshire restarts after a summer hiatus tonight with what should be a doozy: "to vaccinate or not to vaccinate."
his method would complicate  vote-counting on election nights, particularly for communities like mont vernon  and lyndeborough that count all ballots by hand, rather than by the optical  ballot-reading machines used in larger communities.
it's that simple ... or, rather, that difficult, because changing culture is very, very tough.
but are almost never used for government bodies.
fungi causing pine needle damage in maine from maine forest service: augusta, maine â maine residents are reporting that they are seeing more and more damage throughout the state to eastern white pine trees, particularly with the yellowing, browning and loss of needles, according to maine forest service officials, under the maine department of conservation.
voices were raised, and for a minute i sensed a small possibility of fisticuffs.
weather is a weird thing, eh? n.h. lawmakers think about killing cap-and-trade new hampshire's republican-dominated legislature - "dominated" is hardly strong enough; the gop is king and queen of all it surveys in concord after it swept the state in the last election - is taking a look at whether to continue our participation in the regional carbon cap-and-trade program called rggi, or regional greenhouse gas initiative.
or maybe he was doing some weird phone-holding calisthenics and i'm being paranoid.
november 22, 2011 penguin pulls its e-books from library lending program
we wrote one report about these poll results last summer -pdf here .
that's an interesting question i'd never thought of - but of course, finding interesting questions is what science does best.
this interactive presentation will allow students to actively participate in investigations with light.
the two biggest recorded quakes in nh history were both in 1940 near lake ossipee, at magnitude 5.5 - which is still well below the usual measurement of a "large" quake, magnitude 6.0.
i just got back from a few days down south and am catching up … but as yet another storm dumps yet more record rain on parts of the region, i thought i'd remind everybody of the excellent headline the telegraph put on a column of mine back in may: "unusually wet or dry may become usual.
northern pass would build about 40 miles of new lines through pristine northern n.h. forests before joining an existing right-of-way, all to bring a gigawatt of quebec hydopower down to new england, burying high-voltage lines is a problem with ac power because of temperature buildup and other issues, but it works well with high-voltage dc.
it's free, with competitions all day today and saturday (they break an hour for lunch around noon).
the immature ones have six legs rather than the adults' eight, but these were too tiny for me to tell.
the national network of precipitation-watching volunteers called cocorahs has compiled state-by-state data from its various volunteer observing stations in 2010.the chart is here, if you want to ponder it.
february 7, 2011 right whales like gulf in maine in winter
i seem to have been looking at either an outdated map or one with insufficient detail, because the map i found with google (which funded the work) shows conway as a real hot spot - as you can see here.
here's the ny times version.
the article has a number of comments at the bottom, many angry at me because they want psnh to bury a portion of the controversial northern pass proposal, in the extreme north country.
if new england were to experience extreme weather conditions, such as an extended heat wave of about 95 degrees, peak consumption could rise to 29,695 mw.
this is the official nasa shuttle page memories of a unh satellite as the shuttle ends from david sims at unh news service: durham, n.h. â
my only reservation about them is that i don't know if the spike trapping varistors are still good.
one of the researchers semi-jokingly talked about the possibility of eventually having daily tick forecasts along with weather and pollen forecasts.
granitegeek is the blog of the year, says state press association
(note that this law is  almost certainly not going to go into effect any time soon, if at all, but it's  still pretty interesting): concord â€“the phrase "one man, one vote" doesn't  mean what you think it does, according to one of the more unusual laws being  proposed in concord.
they can be severely damaged by this.
october 27, 2011 searching google with '+' doesn't work any more, in preparation for google+ wired is reporting that google has quietly stopped allowing the use of the plus sign in search fields to force searches - to create an "and" search - presumably so as not to conflict with searches among google+ its facebook wannabe.
february 6, 2011 wearing ice crampons to shovel the roof there is so much snow and ice on our roof that my wife and ice wore microspikes - a sort of mini-ice-crampon - when we went up there yesterday to shovel, to give ourselves more traction.
i got a note last night from mary stampone of unh, the state meteorologist and cocorahs organizer (who was, incidentally, a panelist in the science cafe nh program on climate change last spring), saying that they had 20 pyranometers available for volunteers.
may 23, 2011 argument over items left in rental housing may have led to gene mallove's murder filed under general by david brooks at 6:04 am it has been seven years since eugene mallove - new hampshire's cold fusion advocate and creator of "infinite energy" magazine - was killed at his childhood home in connecticut, and his death remains something of a mystery.
who needs "approval voting" - as one nh legislator wants - when you can just draw lots?
nah - in a power outage what's important is the internet!
since our heads tend to be the only part that is uncovered in winter time, the actual truth is a  percentage of heat *that escapes from our body when we're outdoors* escapes from our head.
earle may 11, 2011 trying to recycle those annoying plastic bottle caps an organization called gimme 5 is trying to develop a system to recycle plastic caps of plastic bottles, which generally can't be handled by standard single-stream waste facilities.
these amounts are dwarfed by the fuel stored at many other plants, which have two to four times as much spent fuel, according to the report's estimates.
police located the 1999 red chevy tracker parked on the side of the road, and kevin illsley, 23, last known address of 10 drake lane, was inside using an unsecured wireless network to surf the web on his phone, police said.
the whole art deco building would probably fit on one luggage carousel at the current airport.
the program begins at 7 p.m.
blazing with an ax or chiseling the name of the owner into prominent trees on properties was very common."
(liberal guilt mixed with post-winter outdoorsyness.)
they were all tiny, barely visible, so they were either deer ticks, the kind that are most likely to carry lyme disease, or immature variations of other species.
there is a push in new hampshire's statehouse to expand parents' ability to  sidestep childhood vaccinations on a whim - i mean, if they have personal or  philosophical or religious or paranormal or whatever objections.
my telegraph column today asks why no new hampshire airport runways have  had to be renamed in recent memory, even though the magnetic north pole has  moved enough that a runway in tampa, fla. had to change its numbers (which  indicate the magnetic direction that runways point).
eastern white pine is a significant tree in maine, with 477 million white pine trees, 1-inch in diameter or larger, according to the most recent survey done in 2009, ken laustsen, mfs biometrician said.
ice-breaking on maine rivers i didn't realize that the coast guard regularly sends ice-breaking ships in  the kennebeck river and other maine rivers - to the point that the ap story ( read it here) describes it as "a sure sign of spring.
the name comes because they contain lots of oil and floated when dead, which made it easier for whaling ships to snag them - that is, they were the right whales to look for.
the money paid by bidders for rggi allowances was used to fund various  energy-efficiency programs.
moreover, he adds, because irrigation is a huge factor in the overall equation, even if melting glaciers and icecaps are adding in meltwater that heretofore has not been part of the global hydrological cycle, the vast amounts of water removed for irrigation purposes will not directly contribute to overall sea level rise.
then go home and put more insulation in your attic.
in the training class, they warn you to mark its location, which has to be out in the open away from any obvious markers like trees that might affect snowfall in the spot.
i'm facing another mystery with this presentation, too.
http://www.stovebolt.com/techtips/rust/electrolytic_derusting.htm http://antique-engines.com/electrol.asp earle rich mont vernon may 26, 2011 white nose syndrome shows up in maine bats i hadn't realized that white-nose syndrome had not been found in maine until, alas, that statement was no longer true.
the latest plan calls for a 4.2-megawatt plant near springfield,  which would be more than twice the size of new england's biggest pv site.
he's an experienced, already-known writer.
psnh set up four 200-watt panels on south daniel webster highway poles in november, and earlier this month workers put up two larger panels, made by a different company, on west hollis street.
(the meter costs $120, plus shipping.)
most of the animals were harbor seals less than a year old.
ostrofsky added that changing tree stand conditions will require regular monitoring for the next few years to better assess management risks to the affected pines.
the computer system can't deal with a hyphenated name.
the idea is to use the online world to le researchers ask lots of people to contribute a little bit each.
it's not the mama black bears we need to worry about black bears are all over the place in nh - especially this time of year, when they're hungry after winter and love to rain bird feeders.
space scientists and technicians from the unh space science center (ssc) were key members of the team that built the imaging compton telescope (comptel) onboard the 17-ton compton gamma ray observatory (cgro) that was lofted into space and placed into orbit by atlantis astronauts back in 1991.
scientists have studied daphnia for centuries because of its importance in  aquatic food webs and for its transformational responses to environmental  stress.
the images are from the goes-13 satellite, overlaid on a true-color modis map.
we do have earthquakes here, but barely - and no tsunamis addendum:
the mission will put five formation flight spacecraft into the key regions of the magnetosphere.
march 4, 2011 first robotics at verizon wireless arena this weekend
mont vernon october 23, 2011 silly 'bigfoot' film at mt. monadnock turns into a free-speech court case after state park folks at mount monadnock wouldn't let a guy make a little film involving him in a bigfoot suit, he sued.
there are lots of opinions about why this is happening.
maine timberlands have an advantage because out-of-state timber mats must have all their bark removed, to reduce the chance that they'll carry invasive weeds or bugs with them - that cost isn't necessary for in-state wood.
unh data-driven modeling keeps track of carbon sources and sinks from the unh news office: scientists jingfeng xiao and scott ollinger of the university of new hampshire'sinstitute for the study of earth, oceans, and space (eos) have received funding from the national science foundation to cover help quantify continental-scale carbon fluxes or so-called carbon "sources" and "sinks" in the long-term effort to craft more accurate climate change forecasts and facilitate climate policymaking.
"it is very convenient to find the information you're looking for right on your computer where students do most of their work anyway.
by the time i'm ready to go to work, the shop is up to 65 degrees or so, comfortable with heat coming from the floor.
apparently a similar thing is happening, on a more subtle scale involving the low-end prizes, with a massachusetts game called cash winfall.
more importantly, though, is that they'll be preceded by a short skit put on by the team, involving a sort-of-but-not-really musical parody of "wizard of oz".
brennan, a former state senator, earned 5,240 first-place votes, or 26.7 percent of the total on tuesday.
new mexico experienced its driest  january on record.
june 24, 2011 next "content provider" to face the digital dilemma:
sciencecafe.org is here.
century of humans putting heat-trapping gases in the atmosphere is, i'm  sure, unrelated.
the u.s. is about to enter the long, slow, and way overdue phase-out of incandescents:a survey by osram sylvania says most people are finally realizing that the change is coming, with new efficiency standards starting next year for 100-watt light bulbs that will doom the traditional glowing-hot-wire bulb.
who needs "approval voting" - as one nh legislator wants -
warmer temperatures and less snow in the fall means the ticks can continue questing for a longer period of time, infecting moose at a higher rate.
january 24, 2011 buried under comment spam this site is getting deluged by comment spam.
"think outside the box" he/she cried.
the problem is twofold: homeowners often overestimate how much wind blows in a given location, and wind power improves as the length of the blades of the turbine increase â
my family has done it for several years - now that the kids are in college and my wife's work schedule has changed, it's up to me.
if a tennis ball was thrown 20 feet away from a basketball, would you think they were in danger of colliding?
it uses data taken from us weather service, your  location, and some information you input such as whether the administration is  "easy, okay, harsh" and the level of hype about the storm, based on  facebook chatter.
however, the care definitely burst into flame and it was definitely sparked (so to speak) by the mindlessly aggressive attempts to get off the ice, so regardless of physics nitpicking, the fire marshal was right in the overall sense.
as reported by the globe, "aaron swartz, 24, was charged with wire fraud, computer fraud, unlawfully obtaining information from a protected computer, and recklessly damaging a protected computer.
if you want to know more, contact adam pranaitis at dwc (pranaitis_adam@dwc.edu) april 07, 2011 maine's wireless smart power meters move ahead, despite silly fears the maine public utilities commission says central maine power can go ahead with its plan to place wireless meters in customer homes, an important first step to creating time-of-day pricing and other aspects of a less wasteful electricity grid, even though a few people have convinced themselves that the signals are somehow harmful to their health.
but that seems a little cowardly in today's  political environment, when state's rights are all the rage.
soot particles can easily become charged.
the new department of innovation logo, with some pulled-apart gears those gears on the innovation blog logo aren't interlocked any more!
here's the whole story, and here's a taste of it: as a so-called "telephone horse," fred starts the morning by towing 48-fiber cable (so called because of the 48 individual strands of glass cables wound into an inch-thick band) from a massive spool on the rear of a fairpoint truck.
(the snow is starting to turn to rain/ice at the moment - ugh.)
i've tried to find out what this is, but it's not ash decline or caused by the dreaded ash emerald borer beetle.
one idea is to run it down the length of the connecticut river - but psnh says the river is too shallow for that to work.
we can answer questions that before would have been impossible to address," says davis, who has been working on the strawberry genome project since 2006 as part of the international strawberry genome sequencing consortium.
a lovely thought, that … making the internet bigger, sort of: it's almost world ipv6 day my telegraph column today is about the slow, continued slog to switch the internet over the vastly bigger address space in ipv6.
his clarinet playing, string bow tie and willingness to don funny hats made him the classic wicked-smart-guy-who-liked-poking-fun-at-himself persona that the igs celebrate to the hilt.
because we haven't had temperatures this low ina couple of winters (i don't think we got below zero last year at all), i am reminded of a rule i had forgotten: at roughly 10 above, nose hairs freeze when you inhale.
i expect it will get at least as much reaction as my "looking for  mountain lions" and "parking backwards is best" column.
i can't entirely disagree with the argument that if people want to waste their money on useless pseudo-medicine, we should let them - the placebo effect is powerful, after all.
hooksett bought the disks because it wanted to upgrade the plant without the enormous expense of building bigger or more aeration ponds.
it starts at 7 p.m. at the  high school, and the $20 ticket goes entirely to the robot team.
local food will never create a huge chunk of modern society's calorie input, at least not in the crowded, only-so-so-for-agriculture northeast.
such a change will upend long-established pricing patterns, and i worry that somehow the big industry folks will figure out how to shift more cost to us schlubs who get the bill.
the article ends with an interesting twist that will probalby piss off  google ever more: j.c. penney is one of the largest purchaser of paid ads on  google - so perhaps the company was less inclined to crack down on its link  farming?
november 21, 2011 'crowd-funding' research: intriguing, if not a replacement for nsf grants my column in the telegraph today (read it here) talks about attempts to 'crowd-fund' real research, sort of likekiva tries to crowd-fund small development projects in the third world.
there was just this little disconnect that has cost the center some  serious money.
here's a portland press-herald story.
"you have to love new england.
"in other plants, they have 'fingers' attached (to the tank to increase surface area).
check it out here: http://www.nashuatelegraph.com/csp/cms/sites/telegraph/specialreports/gribbletrial/index.csp if it's after court hours, you'll see an archive of the posts and photos, but won't be able to see the video unless you click on another link to an archive.
it's part of their super stellar friday program: details here.
it will include a guided tour of the route the hills took.
they've probably got the votes to override any veto from  the governor, so i suspect it's time for us to say bye-bye torggi.
i may have to bail out, so to speak, this morning:
february 2, 2011 lots of light snow (10-1 moisture ratio)
predators signal some of the animals to produce exaggerated spines,  neck-teeth or helmets in self-defense.
this isn't the end of the silly kerfuffle, however.
since there are 7 billion of us alive today, that means the current population is 12.5% of the total historical population of the species.
whatever it is, it affects the strength of the wood, noticeable when i'm running the power splitter.
this stuff burns  like crazy.
there are other methods to increase bacteria counts.
january 14, 2011 have the signs of the zodiac changed?
(entire article is here.
the $517,000 award from nsf will fund the three-year project.
this means that both can sustain populations at a size large  enough to allow for rapid infestation when an agricultural crop becomes  available."
the state has a data tool that lets you look at public health  information by time or geography.
the fast compton telescope or factel for short will be flown out of new mexico.
explore the benefits and challenges of going local 2.
the rocket-launching tip-up built by mike haeg (who's from minnesota, but  we'll call him an honorary northern new englander)
here's a telegraph story presenting the unfiltered arguments of the  "vaccines made my kid sick" folks at a recent legislative hearing.
(darn it, he's older than me - how come i don't have that much hair?)
january 11, 2011 49 of 50 states have snow on the ground hawaii has snow on mauna kea - so only florida is lacking snow on the  ground at the moment,says noaa.
why does sea salt build up on power lines?
i am of an age that rap isn't my favorite  musical genre, but any song* that containssohcahtoa is ok by me.
that's an obvious thought - longer lifespan might be cfls biggest selling point, wince electricity savings really doesn't add up to much money for the average homeowner.
yesterday i was delighted to open up the pile and see steam rise into the cool air.
i buy them from the bank, usually four rolls at a time.
but arkansas goes one better: it specifics that the clothing must have a "predominant light wavelength of 595-605 nanometers" inlaw
"the introduction of aquatic non-native species to new hampshire waters presents a serious danger to the ecological integrity of our waterways, as well as our ability to enjoy them," stated thomas burack, des commissioner.
it's possible that the new totals would require a change in the order of finish.
by david sims, unh news service: scientists at the university of new hampshire'sinstitute for the study of earth, oceans, and space (eos) have been funded by nasa to improve estimates of how melting mountain glaciers around the globe will contribute to sea level rise in the future.
february 24, 2011 measles outbreak in boston leads to emergency vaccinations
check out the web site of science cafe new hampshire to whet your appetite (so to speak).
radiology, in the process getting access to the personal information of more  than 230,000 patients.
here's the explanation by matt sukoski of the burlington free-press about why lake champlain, which hit record-high levels last weekend, will remain in flood stage for weeks: think of lake champlain as a bucket with a single hole at the bottom of it.
the bill wouldn't let you vote for the same person more than once,
somehow that had never occurred to him that a $50.00 ups could be fixed with a $17.00 battery.
it has dozens of the dead little nasties floating in it.
anyway, my home heating via wood stove is solved for the next three years or so.
" the other change is that it is contributing to the demise of the volunteer town web site, which you can see here if you'd like a bit of nostalgia back to mozilla days.
maybe because they know believers in homeopathy will shell out bucks for stuff that does nothing, so if their medicine is a dud, slapping "homeopathic" on the label gives them a new market - like adding "natural" or "as seen on tv".)
august 13, 2011 handling hyphens â my wife just had a routine procedure at st joseph's in nashua.
mr obama's plan may revitalise nasa and send american astronauts into the solar system once again.
" october 10, 2011 today's techno-contemplation: 'will the e-book kill the footnote'?
this is what sidescan sonar of the ocean floor looks like.
mitt romney agrees that the globe is warming and humans are part of the problem.
the same is true for older  adults who acquired natural immunity by being exposed to the disease when it  was prevalent.
no wonder it feels like blocks of ice when you walk on it!
april 28, 2011 harbor seal survey hits the coast in maine, cape cod seals have become a problem on parts of the west coast, congregating to the point that they annoy boaters and/or do harm to the local fish population, but we don't seem to have that issue in the northeast.
we had just seen a diy tv program on using magnetic paint to make a quick and easy board for a kids room.
i'm doing a story about blaze orange clothing for hunters, and came across a delightful tidbit.
we would tie this on a peg inside the trap, attracting crabs, sea urchins, snails and the occasional lobster.
august 26, 2011 of hurricanes and toilet bowls
it is the most striking change in the terrain of the planet in recent  decades, and a major question is whether it is starting to have an effect on  broad weather patterns.
(tip of the hat to first robotics pal-turned-college engineering student tom king)
in times of normal weather, rain usually washes away the environmental buildup.
march 11, 2011 most of your body heat doesn't escape through your head many times over the years i have written about the incorrect idea that some  percentage of our body heat escapes through our heads, as if our craniums were a sort of biological radiator while the rest of our skin was insulation.
casual events, discussion will be driven by the audience.
avoiding vaccination puts a cost on society, and people should face up to costs.
good prime (nuclear energy 101) that includes this note: "remember, this is really just an emergency shutdown gone awry.
the five displayed their products during a reception before the evening event, and then made seven-minute pitches as part of their effort to encourage the audience to vote for their product.
as a reader, i'm stressed because my news delivery service is being changed to something i don't enjoy nearly as much.
"this genome gives biologists and ecologists the tools they need to do  genomic analysis on this organism from an ecological perspective."
e-book battle, round umpty-ump: independent bookstores vs. amazon my latest e-book story is in today's telegraph:
i like footnotes, kept close to the text they're discussing.
the camp is cohosted by the james randi educational foundation.
the bill wouldn't let you vote for the same person more than once, but you could vote for multiple people running against each other.
if we found a "seed" lobster, one with eggs tucked under that tail, we threw that one back after cutting a notch in the tail fin.
made by a fitchburg, mass.,  native, it concerns the problems at worcester, mass., where 25,000 trees were  turned into chips for a power plant because they contained beetles, as well as  other places where the beetle has appeared.
to find the site,check the state's leukemia page (here) and click on the  environmental health data integration network (ehdin) link.
the damage is "very widespread" and affecting a large portion of the state, the forest pathologist said, adding that this week he observed damaged pines in the leeds/turner area.
it's kind of sad that such emphasis is necessary, but such is life.
the system is part of a system that lets law enforcement turn smartphones into facial scanners.
if i was a little more ambitious, i could match ring width to historical weather.
they showed up in a western massachusetts lake last year, their first new england appearance, and that state is spending $71,000 this year (up from $5,000 last year) on boat-cleaning and educational programs, in an attempt to keep them being carried inadvertently to other lakes and rivers by boaters.
"river science has come a long way in the last 30 years," (an engineer) said.
most of it is cool but predicatble - old apollo computers, a watch that went to the moon, a bolf from a mercrucy spacecraft - but there's one incredibly awesome surprise: extensive correspondence by a guy who tried to develop a steam-powered airplane for the confederacy during the civil war.
the consortium focused first on sequencing the wild woodland strawberry because its cultivated cousins, all hybrids, are far more complex.
the bbc has a video, with a lot of surprisingly dainty  explosions, although i bet they wouldn't seem so dainty up close.
i can, however, say that a product in which the active ingredient exists in homeopathic amounts is a product that has no active ingredient at all.
further, mascoma, valero, and mascoma's operating subsidiary,frontier renewable resources llc, jointly owned with natural resource management company, j.m. longyear llc, have signed a non-binding letter of intent to support the construction of one of the world's first commercial scale wood-based cellulosic ethanol biorefineries, slated to break ground in 2011 in kinross charter township, michigan.
a couple more 'solar on a stick' panels in nashua two more solar panels have been installed on utility poles in nashua as part of a psnh study of the usefulness of the alternative-energy approach sometimes called "solar on a stick."
it's at 7 p.m. tonight at wings your way manchester, a restaurant/bar at 1181 elm st. how do computer models work?
the formats available include an online web book; print-it-yourself pdf; e-book for an ipad, kindle or other tablet; and audiobook for an ipod or mp3 player.
this is a different way of doing something like this; it will be interesting to see the reaction we get.
my telegraph column last week was about the u.s. chess league, the little-known professional chess league, which has two franchises in the boston area: the boston blitz and the new england nor'easters.
it's very cool: they flood the fields, shake the plants, the berries float to the top and they suck them up with giant vacuum cleaners.
one of the things it is doing is "coming up with standards to be used by observers in reporting foliage color change.
a recent thrill was touring the cape canaveral center here in florida, seeing examples of little rockets like those i worked on up to the saturn v with moon lander suspended in air a few feet above our heads.
it's particularly frightening to nuclear power plants on the coast (as are most of them, to take advantage of the ocean for cooling).
the genome sequencing effort, led by researchers at the university of  florida and virginia tech, found that the woodland strawberry  â€”fragaria vesca â€“ has240 million  base pairs of dna (compared to 3 billion for humans), making it one of the  smallest genomes of economically significant plants.
defining a trillion by turkey plate specials the union-leader has a piece today trying to put the number "trillion" into perspective.
her posting, along with all the others written so far, are on the cocorahs 50 state climate page.
so chances are that the rochester fire was caused by some sort of flammable  liquid on the ground near the the very hot spinning tires, or something along  those lines.
here's the data for hillsborough county, nh: male life expectancy: 1987:72.5 2007: 77.3 female life expectancy 2007: 81.4 1987: 78.8 june 16, 2011 who owns the arctic?
it feels more like early spring outside than fall - faugh!
" june 30, 2011 the transition "roadable aircraft" during its first proof-of-concept flight.
google street view car spotted in nashua google has updated its street view of nashua at least three times since it first came through in summer 2007, when it snagged a shot of telegraph chief photographer don himself covering an event at city hall.
the whole, soggy article can be read here.
each spray from the shower head can be thought of as one of the many rivers and streams feeding into the lake.
from the executive summary: *
it includes a link to a very funny  parody site calledfancy parking.
i have a couple of ups units that were destined for the  trash.
(a note about the system, which is branded northern pass: it would run 140 miles of dc lines from the canadian border to franklin, in central n.h., where a $250 million (oops) converter terminal would switch it to ac power that would be carried 40 miles to the deerfield station.
their target customer is the aerospace industry, where a gram saved is a dollar (or maybe $1,000) saved.
canada thinks maybe so canadian researchers say that fundamental changes to the marine ecosystem off nova scotia have supported a rebound in stocks of cod and other groundfish that might be signs of a turnaround, years after fishing moratoriums were declared because of collapse in populations.
the genome project was conceived with an expectation that many new gene functions would be uncovered when studied in light of the animal's natural environment â not necessarily expecting to discover many more genes.
meanwhile, please click on all the ads on my site - otherwise we might start showing monkey genetalia.
lots of people swear there are cougars (or mountain lions, which are the same thing) in new hampshire, although wildlife officials doubt it.
june 22, 2011 another big turn-out for science cafe nh we had a good 60 people crowding into the basement of the barley house last night for the second science cafe new hampshire.
pretty much my whole adult life, there has been argument about how long humans have been in north america.
aerial insectivores, including the phoebes that nest in my barn every year, are also declining, whereas fish-eating birds like osprey and bald eagles are booming.
smu geothermal map geothermal energy near conway, nh?
the post office has long ago determined that these schemes are illegal.
penguin cited "security concerns" - presumably fear that it would fuel sales of e-book readers from amazon, which is becoming a sort of publishing house and thus competing with penguin.
(researchers) did not see whales mating, and the whales did not appear to be feeding.
this leaves it with a problem, as the ny times notes: it is scheduled to shut in october and load up with 18 months of fuel.
there was of course the loud crack of the thunder, but i didn't hear the snap of electric discharge or smell ozone (but also didn't stick around for more than a second).
for instance, says davis, breeders can now look at the dna  "fingerprint" of strawberry plants to more easily breed those with  enhanced flavor, aroma, or antioxidant properties.
return to menu july 1, 2011 maps by noaa
he also spent decades teaching at boston university.
let's see if china can do anything interesting in the next few years, while spacex and other private firms tackle low earth orbit.
more information about the conference is here.
the nature genetics paper, "the genome of the woodland  strawberry," is available here: http://strawberrygenes.unh.edu/published.740%5b1%5d.pdf.
if harpo marx, laurel and hardy, and the three stooges on a non-violent day got together and planned a science fair, and invited a handful of real nobel laureates to play along, it would look sort of like this.
the nature genetics paper, "the genome of the woodland strawberry," is available here: http://strawberrygenes.unh.edu/published.740%5b1%5d.pdf.
or maybe the law should be changed to say that any sunlight that originates entirely within new hampshire is exempt from federal daylight savings regulations.
whoa - who would have guessed?
a little walking is worth less hassle when leaving, i say.
there are six stars.
rggi basically makes electricity producers pay for the right to emit  pollution and uses the money to pay for energy efficiency work.
an ice fishing tip-up that launches a model rocket i have just stumbled upon (via boing-boing) what may be the ultimate geeky northern new england item: an ice-fishing tip-up (the little device that signals when you've gotten a bite) which doesn't spring the usual flag, but which launches a model rocket!
each state has dozens of stations (including me, although i  only started in december) but most of us miss the occasional day.
fires start when the fumes get hot.
if there are unidentified effects, they are likely affecting the data that is being collected and, as an end result, could affect conservation practices and wildlife management.
really, what we have here is a waiting game.
now the state public utilitiy commission says they have to skip homes if customers demand it - but they can charge those customers an extra $20 installation fee and $1.50 a month, as compensation for the hassle.
annoyingly, i will be tied up all day helping my local conservation commission build things (which is fun, too)
return to menu may 1, 2011 canadian firms give boost to wind-power giant, first wind of boston a business arrangement that gives first wind of boston "seriously needed financing" has been reached with ontario-based algonquin power and utilities corp. and halifax-based emera inc., reports the bangor daily news.
since we have a  wood stove, i save papers to start the fire when i've let it burn out to empty  ashes.
creationism trying to sneak into new hampshire laws on this independence day, let us celebrate academic independence by noting with disapproval that two new hampshire lawmakers want to bring creationism into public school science classes.
i like computers, i can hardly conceive of what my  life would be like without the internet and email.
the project is called mydarksky, which is trying to create a real-time global map that would let you find the closest dark-sky area for some stellar viewing.
there's a big fight in new hampshire over a proposal to build about 40 miles of high-voltage dc power lines (which use enormous towers) over relatively untouched north country hills, while the rest of the system would run over existing rights of way where other towers exist.
"we need to start considering how we're going to preserve the genetics so we can perhaps bring these back in the future ….
the floating-disk method is pretty new in the u.s., which may explain hooksett's difficulties.
the drilling site is about 600 miles from the south pole where the ice flows out to the sea in opposing directions â an ice divide.
here's a good, quick columbia u. page about it, which dewcribes it like this: "the nao is the dominant mode of winter climate variability in the north atlantic region ranging from central north america to europe and much into northern asia.
spotted via treehugger.)
and there's a whole industry of software and hardware "tablet sheet music" programs of various costs and complexity that take sheet music pdfs and let you annotate them, or turn pages by foot pedal (!) or automatically on a timer, and even integrate with midi file so you can hear the music to help you learn it.
that's one of the great things about working for a newspaper; people spontaneously send you interesting stuff.
it's the first time this has happened, says the globe (in this article).
rggi basically makes electricity producers pay for the right to emit pollution and uses the money to pay for energy efficiency work.
as it notes: "few potential roadkill have the moose's combination of size, speed, and proximity to traffic.
other forest management practices that might disturb affected tree stands also should be avoided, he said.
what if they change the behavior we're tring to study?
but in the 1979-1980 winter, a  generally positive north atlantic oscillation took over until fairly recently.
my reach exceeded my grasp, as they say.
he calls himself a "cheerful pessimist" on the topic: he thinks the planet is in big, big trouble, but that perhaps we'll figure a way out of complete disaster.
smith recommends that if fish caught are suspected to be the rosyside dace or any other non-native aquatic species previously undocumented in new hampshire, individuals should immediately release them back into the waters from which they were captured, and contact either the fish and game inland fisheries division (603-271-2501) or the des biology section (603-271-8865).
anyone with a known tick bite, or who has been in a tick habitat should watch for symptoms for at least 30 days after the exposure.
what if your tv didn't start recording a show on time!
we'd had some excellent screams from the 'tween female set.
i have never seen that in my 21 years living in new hampshire.
not surprisingly, this has some stores worried.
we want you to buy the print paper, folks - that's where the advertising money lies (such as it is these days)!
what happened, it turns out, is that a reporter talked to an astronomer and  learned about the precession of the equinoxes - the fact that earth wobbles in  its orbit so that the imaginary figures drawn in the sky called "zodiac  signs" have shifted over the millennia.
pjm, which once stood for pennsylvania, jersey and maryland, factors in such variability, counting a 100-megawatt wind farm as being worth only 13 megawatts on a peak summer day, for example.
all this was done to ensure the healthy population.
various calendar constraints collided this year.")
camels and horses may be similar in speed and size to moose, but they tend to be tied up or confined.
they also met with aneesh chopra, the federal chief technology officer.
the ny times  has a storytoo.
from the story: given that the fcc is shifting subsidies from traditional phone carriers to high-speed broadband providers, it asked for public comments about its authority to regulate voice-over-internet-protocol calls, such as comcast's broadband-based phone service.
there's a big program in alabama (see it here), and even the epa wants to  help them return to the beleaguered chesapeake bay (here).
a single and passive input to our senses.
bell labs management supplied us with funding, shielded us from extraneous bureaucracy, and urged us not to be satisfied with doing merely "good science."
an entire elephant worth of snow!
you cannot, however, be a wealth geek, because society thinks any possible amount of detailed interest in wealth is perfectly reasonable and even admirable.
i put a little money where my media mouth is: i gave $50 to a propsal to study whether "critter cams" in the wild, which use infrared beams or other technology to automatically photograph animals and thus get a better sense of what's happening when humans aren't around, might be unwittingly changing the behavior they mean to study.
the west antarctic ice sheet (wais) divide project  closed out its fifth drilling season on friday, jan. 28, after reaching a depth  of 3,331 meters â€“ about two miles â€“ thereby  deriving the deepest ice core ever drilled by u.s. researchers.
and like the virgin nymph of greek  mythology that shares its name, daphnia thrives in the absence of males  â€” by clonal reproduction, until harsh environmental  conditions favor the benefits of sex.
we use newspaper as mulch in the spring to jumpstart tender seedlings.
if you're a rubik's cube fan in the original sense of the word ("fanatic") you might want to go to the boston mseum of science on saturday morning to watch eight-person teams from schools around new england compete to solve 25 cubes.
i've also found it quite interesting to learn the water equivalence in this year's snowfall - it gives a real quantitative kick to the vague "this snow is heavy, that snow is light" feeling i've always had.
january 13, 2011 'call of duty' gamers hacked medical server to get some free bandwidth the union-leader has a today (read it here) about scandinavian players of  "call of duty: black ops" who swiped bandwidth from seacoast
603 area code won't have to share n.h. (and it's not because of the net)
but as i say, this is still very iffy.
i got a notice from my library last night that penguin books has pulled out of a program that lets you download e-books and some audio books through your public library account.
but there is a  non-trivial section of the economic and environmental community which worries  about thejevons paradox, aka "rebound effect," in which greater  efficiency leads people to use more of the product, negating energy savings.
and some parents in this country refuse to have their children  inoculated, citing safety fears that most specialists regard as unfounded.
mayfly hatch seen on radar in wisconsin
he then either refurbishes and resells the items or breaks them down into individual component piles, on site.
there are technical questions, such as whether it is better to transfer the heat via steam or hot water, and, perhaps more importantly, financial and city-planning questions.
foss, a hampton-based company that produces engineered, non-woven fabrics and specialty syntheticfibers, won the 2011 poy award for the spectrashield 9500 n95 surgical respirator mask.
you're notallowed to graduate in four years.
(note that this law is almost certainly not going to go into effect any time soon, if at all, but it's still pretty interesting): concord âthe phrase "one man, one vote" doesn't mean what you think it does, according to one of the more unusual laws being proposed in concord.
admittedly, it's kind a pain at times, since the measurements should be done by 8 a.m..
the story includes the sort of comments about value of real-world vs. digital-world interaction that retailers have been saying for years ("customers value the interaction of coming to a store, the ambiance.
30-megawatt solar farm will be controlled by one pc, two guys in the high desert of southern colorado, a 30-megawatt, 200-acre solar farm is being built.
the range can be much greater in other states: hawaii, which includes what  may bethe wettest place on earth, ranges from 37 days of precipitation to 267  of them!
none of our quakes this year have topped magnitude 2.6, which is barely noticeable on the ground.
it's going to take them until at least wednesday to go through the sorting process to figure out the winner.
yet, daphnia's genome is no ordinary  genome.
thanks to gilbert and other companies not too concerned about the legal system, i've had a great run.
i wouldn't want to squeeze through that triangle-sized hole carrying a gas monitor (sewer gas buildup can be quick and deadly) or a harness, which allows me to be pulled out if necessary.
fromuniveristy of maryland: "it's made out of thin, corrugated, purple plastic that has been coated with non-toxic glue on all three sides.
that's why you're going to attend the inaugural science cafe new hampshire, next tuesday (may 24) at 7 p.m. at the barley house, 132 n. main st., in concord.
september 29, 2011 the deadliness of sewer gas
the plastic disks, made via injection molding, are used to increase the amount of bacteria in aeration tanks, the huge ponds hold sewage for biological break-down as part of treatment process.
i'm reading "at home" by bill bryson.
and there's nothing local in tech news, so ...)
the weekend unveiling of the martin luther king memorial in dc was delayed by hurricane irene, as you've probably heard.
those big 16" long cylinders are heavy!
the audience vote counts towards 50% of the final tabulation and the initial judge's vote counts for the remaining 50%.
one of those appears to be koch membrane system of wilmington, mass.; the globe reports that it has just gotten a many-millions contract in brazil for membranes to filter sewer water so it can be reused.
overnight heat is worse than daytime heat
this was the first such report ever to go public, and despite its rather (shall we say) unusual nature, the whole weird story has entered granite state lore to the point that the hills papers are kept at unh for study.
there is, by the way, a major worry with time-of-day pricing and other aspects of the smart grid, but it has nothing to do with unfounded fears.
phil plait, the bad astronomer, geeks out properly, noting that 111111 is 63 in binary:read him here.
for decades, the massive ice sheets in greenland and antarctica have been the subject of intense scientific investigation to assess their potential contribution to sea level rise, but a full assessment and study of the smaller and scattered population of mountain glaciers around the globe has not been factored into climate models.
consider your own garden: is it easier to grow weeds or strawberries?" here's a greentechmedia story.
our tables are round seating six to ten people.
so i'll cut-and-paste a portion of that column: eddy currents in electromagnetism are analogous to eddy currents in the ocean, which can swirl opposite to the general flow of water - such as when the outgoing tide moves around a pier or you pull an oar through the water.
still, it was an interesting attempt to curb our co2tragedy  of the commons.
my week-long project to have telegraph readers create and improve a new  wikipedia article has ended* and the result is pretty good.
october 13, 2011 you don't have to tell newfoundland that moose are bad for cars, as this road sign (so much more graphic than new hampshire's "brake for moose" logo) demonstrates the world's most dangerous animal is the moose - if you're a car driver, that is slate's excellent explainer column today examines the question "which animal makes for the deadliest hazard on the road?" and concludes, "probably the moose."
these water chestnuts (not the edible kind, alas) are one of several aquatic invasive species bedeviling new hampshire.
they pause frequently to jump poles and troubleshoot snags.
(the japan quake was magnitude 8.9)
the location is part of the marconi beach, in the cape cod national seashore .
they're the mechanically simplist, and thus usually the largest, of pre-gunpowder weapons of mass destruction.)
from the story: "the its is a movement that, in accordance with its ideals, opposes any development of neo- or nanotechnology anywhere in the world, and they are linked to attacks in several different countries of europe, including spain and france.
when i pick up the paper, i know that there are lines  of people behind it who worked and thought and collabrated and made my life  happier.
they want the restoration time for their street, their house.
at 16,000 rpm, the company says, the surface speed of the rim is approximately mach 2 or about 1500 mph.
further, the woodland strawberry is a member of the rosaceae family, which  includes apples, peaches, cherries, raspberries, and almonds, all economically  important and popular crops; researchers say the dna sequence of the strawberry  genome will inform the breeding of these other fruits.
much of what the local power company has been doing for days is driving around, finding blown cutoffs, getting tree companies to get the wood offf the line and then getting line teams to fix the fuse.
i think this could be really good, but it depends on people attending with intelligent questions and open minds.
massachusetts has 45 megawatts of solar installed massachusetts has about 45 megawatts of solar energy installed, and an additional 40 megawatts contracted for installation, according tothis article from earth techling.
"the introduction of aquatic non-native species to new hampshire  waters presents a serious danger to the ecological integrity of our waterways,  as well as our ability to enjoy them," stated thomas burack, des  commissioner.
this is why companies don't leap at cool new technology
(researchers) did not see whales mating, and the whales did not appear to  be feeding.
the newspaper business is hoping that someone electronic print will bring in enough money to keep traditional news organizations going in some form.
new hampshire pays for all vaccinations for all state residents younger than 19.
the e-textbook initiative is the result of a textbook licensing agreement between the whittemore school, the unh bookstore and open textbook publisher flat world knowledge.
it garnered a surprising amount of debate, with some  folks saying only wimpy losers did it, others saying only ignorant flatlanders  didn't do it.
it got defused, but not before demonstrating how contentious the topic of global warming has become - and showing some of the startled political-science undergrads in attendance that science isn't always boring and cold-blooded.
(read it here, if you can.)
here's a scicop article about this myth.
the telegraph and all the people  are real and substantial.
here's the short answer, for the impatient: the pole hasn't moved enough,  and nobody that i could contact knows why tampa had to change when no other  airport did.
read the mass high tech story here.
"this project is looking at how we can scale fundamental processes of stream ecology to a whole-stream scale," says mcdowell.
november 6, 2011 seal deaths along new england coast lead to federal probe
here'sa report from the wire, a seacoast weekly.
the maker revolution is changing all that for the good.
if a moving magnetic field passes through a material that conducts  electricity (like aluminum, which is a great conductor), it sets up a current  among the atoms of that material.
and i promise, no more politics.
meanwhile, here are today's specials.
however, the forage fish appear to have overrun their food supply.
a report urges work to increase environmental diversity in the gulf of maine, even though it might diminish lobster numbers somewhat.
i wrote about their latest auction, which included documents for a steam-powered flying machine that an inventor tried to sell to the confederacy.
vermont is demonstrating that right now, because attempts to save the endangered mudpuppy, a river-bottom-dwelling salamander, are colliding with attempts to get rid of sea lampreys, a fish-destroying nuisance species.
that seems to make correlations between population trends and changing climate a little tenuous, i would think.
the container is a cat litter bucket with a couple of gallons of water and washing soda to make the water conductive.
i've had years of  depending on daily updates from my favorite newspaper and that is threatened.
how much credence must be given to silly fears?
platts makes the recommendation sound pretty content-free - specifically, it doesn't recommend actual site(s) for the interim storage.
>may 6, 2011 maine study says put wind turbines farther from homes from the portland press-herald: "the minimum distance between homes and commercial wind turbines in maine should be nearly doubled to 1,000 feet to limit the impacts of noise on residents, a long-awaited state report is recommending.
this fall, students saved $88,500 by opting for the digital version of textbooks at the unh bookstore, which includes gittell's students.
pursuing that plan b: collecting seeds to study and plant at a time when the ash may be able to survive the invader."npr story here.
the organization's work will enable delivery of a variety of services such as consumer and business internet access, voice telephony (voip), ip-based television, movies on demand, business class videoconferencing, health care services (e.g. in- home monitoring), home and business security, computer backup, public access television, internet radio, and many other advanced services.
that wasn't so easy, he said, because the online world was still wrestling with its proper role.
( read the story here)
read the whole story here.
read the whole piece here.
vaccinations are possible, says the article.
just one single pulse of electricity melts the interfacial ice and instantly releases any additional build-up, which then easily slides off.
here's the funny, or funny-ish, part.
the drawback is people are used to getting results the night of election," said clegg.
i posted an item earlier today wondering what exactly those floating disks, accidentally released from a n.h. wastewater treatment plant, do.
as this faq from wvlightning.com says, "when lightning strikes an object or the ground, the lightning channel is often a deep red or orange color for its last ten feet or so above the ground or the target object.
who says professional journalism has no role today?
i'm embarrassed that i missed it.
the direct or indirect effects of these cosmic rays on the earth system, including our biosphere, remain poorly understood and are often highly controversial.
a look at the path of the northern pass power line a union-leader toured the route of the proposed northern pass power line, accompanied by a critic, and filed a report printed today.
most makers buy stuff as part of their efforts - it's just that they buy tools, materials, manuals, and the like instead of things made by somebody else using tools and materials in, say, china.
portsmouth herald story here reddit cofounder hacked into mit to set free 4 million scientific papers
here's a sign of its acceptance: the girl scouts have created a "localvore" badge, shown here.
mit and woods, with about $75 million each, are virtually tied for the lead.
i no longer  take those snow depth totals that i see on the tv weather reports very  seriously.
you can read it here.
the story says the engine and transmission are original although "the car's seatbelts, steering wheel and upholstery have worn out and been replaced.
when the space shuttle atlantis lifts off from florida's kennedy space center this friday morning for its final voyage, it will bring to a close the ship's 27-year flight history, the 30-year run of the shuttle program itself, and a chapter of space science history at the university of new hampshire.
(other subspecies, including the florida panther, are doing fine.)
instead of purchasing hard copies of their textbook, the more than 600 students enrolled in prof. ross gittell's "introduction to business" course at the whittemore school of business and economics paid just $33.25 for unlimited online access for the term.
discovery center educator john gianforte will give a presentation about nasa's effort to find out more about those alien worlds.
friday night's program will feature dr. mark mcconnell and a look back on  the apollo 14 mission, how it was conducted, and how it contributed to our  understanding of the moon.
here's a small but intriguing example: propublica and the ny times are selling long-form journalism as part of amazon's "short book" program (5,000 to 30,000 words or so).this column, by former telegraph staffer damon kiesow, explains it - although he gets his wrist slapped with a pica pole for using the word "monetize" (ugh).
the current reactor was installed in 1975 and it uses a more highly enriched version of uranium fuel than a commercial plant.
the team notes that getting emissions from the nose of the heliosphere has been an important "lamp post" towards understanding how the global heliosphere is controlled by the interaction of the sun with the local galactic medium.
is new hampshire weather really that bad?
i was assigned to the telemetry room with big multitrack ampex tape recorders and receivers to maintain and modify according to what the civilian engineers needed.
check mount  washington's 7 a.m. weather report, above!
"i analyze the people involved in sightings,'' he admits.
october 20, 2011 digital privacy discussion at science cafe was a hit the science cafe nh last night only drew about a dozen people - we blame the rain and the world series - but the discussion was fabulous, two hours of informed give-and-take about digital privacy.
i just spent a few minutes flipping through it.
does reading the huffington post diminish the survival of my paper?
that's pretty strange to me.
wired has a piece pointing to a military report that 2,000 robots are being used by u.s. troops in afghanistan, which means than one out of every 50 of our "soldiers" is a robot.
perhaps we should instead keep the difference and celebrate granite  state daylight time as the chronological embodiment of our independent  heritage.
florida has more of these than  any other state.
still, it was an interesting attempt to curb our co2tragedy of the commons.
dropping the dvd option and going streaming-video-only (which we watch on tv via roku).
from a press release: "we don't know how many harbor seals there are in new england because most seal surveys focus on one specific area or location, but we do know that local populations have grown in size during the last few decades, and have changed in many ways, especially in southern new england and nantucket sound. ...
wednesday is world ipv6 day, when facebook, google and some other biggies switch on v6 versions of their sites as a sort of beta test.
the article's not online yet at the magazine site (here).
but the darn thing feels more like magic than technology.
in fact, as the portland press-herald reports: "the office put out a statement this week saying central maine power co.'s smart meters - which use low-power radio frequency transmissions to send meter readings to the company - are interfering with a wide range of household electronic devices, from garage door openers and wifi devices to security systems.
at least, that's what the a fire marhsal told foster's daily democratin this story.
using old records like this to provide real-world baselines is not uncommon in science.
while over the course of a year the wind machines can contribute mightily to kilowatt hours produced, they do much of their production on windy winter nights, according to experts at pjm and other grid organizations.
it stuck me as a little odd, since presumably the tires were on ice which  wouldn't easily build up enough friction to burn rubber.
noaa recalculated the 30-year "normal" temperatures around the country for each month, based on data from the first decade of this millennium, and found that the january minimums had risen in much of the country, including n.h., whereas the july maximums hadn't risen as much, and have gone down slightly in new england .
the advantages are obvious - "no moving parts" is a goal to which  all engineers aspire.
(it was saturday night at 8:30 p.m.)
* * note to non-nh readers - these are referencers to a couple particularly  interesting laws that have been proposed lately.
its waste stream is biodegradeable, and in the quantities generated by a single horse, facilities for the storage and processing of the waste pending biodegradation do not require epa approval.
it was created to extend phone service to rural areas, where there wasn't enough business to cover the cost of lines, but now most of it will be used to do the same thing with rural broadband lines, not rural voice lines.
the maine legislature is still considering bills prodded by objections, including one that would let people opt out of the plan.
the hurricane must be real: the white mountain huts are shutting
all the real science about how they form and move and all that has been pretty well hashed out in news stories, though, which doesn't leave me much.
it's worth a read, because nobody tells a nostalgic tale like dean-o. february 13, 2011
why - but this presentation, from a researcher in that state's division  of fish and wildlife, discounts hunting (which ended years ago) and says that  warmer weather is a reasonable hypothesis: "non-hunting mortality was  correlated with temperature indices, both seasonally and annually and these  temperature indices have been increasing over the last 50 years."
i couldn't believe how much of our trash volume had been envelopes and newspapers and the like.
"we're reorganizing and trimming down, but we're still open and providing most of our services" said an email from a company staffer.
the boston globe has a good piece about the complicated life cycle of the tick, in which it notes that the spread of the white-footed mouse is at least as important as the spread of deer, which casts doubt on whether deer-hunting programs instituted in some massachusetts communities will help control lyme.
he holds the common, flawed belief that water vapor's role in warming is so great that human activitiy is irrelevant,answered nicely here.
http://www.theoildrum.com/ earle rich mont vernon, nh april 25, 2011 who should have access to doctors' prescription data?
my uscf rating never got above about 1200, which isn't even advanced beginner, but even i could see then that chess didn't care two hoots about the rest of the universe.
""the death of someone who argumentatively affected more people in a positive way (both directly and indirectly) than steve jobs did" has gotten almost no popular press, he noted sadly.
" i've been trying to thin out our book collection in recent months, since it is overflowing the shelves and we don't have any obvious place to build new ones.
the 2010 mean temperature was 46.7 degrees fahrenheit, nearly 3 degrees  above the average from 1971 to 2000, which is considered the base temperature  for modern comparisons, and 3.3 degrees warmer than the average from 1895 to  2010.
for details, check the science cafe nh website.
notes schwadron, an associate professor at unh's institute for the study of earth, oceans, and space and department of physics, "isolating and separating the ribbon from the ibex maps was like pulling the drapes from our window to discover the landscape at the edge of the solar system." of the singular images the ibex mission has been able to achieve, lead scientist david mccomas of the southwest research institute (swri) says, "these maps are very rich scientifically and are critical in helping scientists understand how our space environment is controlled by the galactic medium.
i never hit it or ran into anything ...
in casella's system, the moving magnetic field is established by a big drum, roughly 2-1/2 feet wide, that is filled with bulky permanent magnets.
in addition to its digital textbooks, flat world knowledge offers an open licensing model that allows instructors to revise, remix, and incorporate their own contributions so their textbooks more directly relate to the focus and learning objectives of a specific course.
he got a parade in saco, maine, plus a new honda.
they were extirpated for a century before being returned from new york state to the keene area in the late 1970s and then expanding throughout much of the state.
" new hampshire has a leukemia-tracking program that i'm going to check with.
what was that all about?
the odd thing is that new england's moose population is doing pretty well - so well that they're spililng over into new york state,as a report from last october said.
because our fingertips are circumcised!
this station, ka1sky, will be formally dedicated on feb. 14 at 11 a.m.part of school club round-up week, to 2009's station project manager ken rust, kb1prv, who recently became a silent key.
the film is then heated with a milliseconds-long pulse of  electricity.
uh-oh - best buy is suing to protect "geek squad" name i don't suppose granite geek will ever rise to the level of their interest, but i can't help feeling a frisson of dread when i read that best buy, owner of the geek squad business, is suing companies that have geek in their name, or geek in their advertising.
key to his operation is a machine he designed to  handle toxic cathode ray tubes, or crts, turning the clunky glass innards from  older-model tvs and computers into something called "cullets," a  glass-to-glass recycling process that generates a usable commodity.
february 23, 2011 a jaffrey firm that "de-manufactures" old electronics, for a profit the union-leader has an interview with the founder of a jaffrey firm called e-waste recyclers llc that is making a business out of recycling electronic junk - pcs, phones, etc.
the company also handles synthetic oils,which have replaced traditional sources.
since 1895, three of new hampshire's top 10 warmest years occurred during the last decade, and seven of the 10 warmest have occurred since 1990.
nh fastroads' mission is to ensure that homes, businesses and institutions of the region have the best broadband infrastructure to support jobs and sustainable economic development.
if there is any cougar in new hampshire, it would be a similar solo escapee, since no wild population exists closer than the upper midwest.
the wheego, an intriguing startup assembled in the us from various components including a chinese body, is available in hudson nh at nashua subaru, and the dealerplans to set up shop under the name ecars in reading, mass .
it will include "last-mile" network projects in rindge and enfield, nh, and "middle-mile" projects delivering fiber network access to 20 towns and 220 community anchor institutions in the area.
since it shows such a clear outline of georgia and a few nearby states.
old science/technology material can be valuable, of course, as amherst nh-based rrauctions demonstrates twice a year with its space/aviation auction ( some material here).
gamma rays, such as those emitted from the crab pulsar, are generally produced from the interactions of a highly accelerated beam of subatomic particles â massive ejections of high-energy particles that are thought to take the form of a narrow jet moving outward at nearly the speed of light.
"it's an accounting of the world's water under changing conditions."
dollar coins are great i don't understand the reluctance of the american public to use the 'gold' dollar coins that the government is minting in great quantities.
if anyone wants a more thorough description of the process, here are a couple of links to some more good information.
august 25, 2011 how to make extreme paper airplanes, in concord aeronautical engineering major adam mistretta, an intern at the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center, will host what sounds like an excellent friday evening discussion: how to design your own experimental paper aircraft and helicopters.
if you haven't seen my video talking about how to figure out how much  moisture is in fallen snow,check it out.
shortmass high tech article here.
i was a clapton freak as a youngster, but i don't think i'd ever cough up $960,000 for his old guitar.
from this data, the exchange of co2 between the ecosystem and atmosphere can be accurately calculated.
the bmsb stink bug two new invasive bugs set their sights on new hampshire did you know that the state has a program in which bugs are collected from filters in people's swimming pools, and then analyzed?
i threw it out the window; hopefully it was die on the highway and not make it to the median.)
it says they have occasionally been revelead and then re-covered by sands over the decades.
it concludes with what might be considered the geek  motto: "for a successful technology, reality must take precedence over  public relations, for nature cannot be fooled."
it seems like an obvious winner:
the suitwas thrown out in december.
since the first of two snowstorms began yesterday morning, i've accumulated 7.5 inches of snow, which melts down to 0.75 inches of water - a 10-1 ratio, which is on the light side of average.
the usual protection methods of wearing clothing to cover up (too hot!) or slapping on sunscreen (messy!) can be inconvenient.
reports of cougars observed in the wild examined during the review process  described cougars of other subspecies, often south american subspecies, that  had been held in captivity and had escaped or been released to the wild, as  well as wild cougars."
animetrics says its system "is designed to accommodate images where the yaw rotation of the face (rotation about the vertical, or y-axis) is +/- 45 degrees or as long as both eyes are visible in the image plane.
nasa says there's a 1/3,200 chance that somebody will be hit by a piece of upper atmosphere research satellite when it falls to earth tomorrow (friday).
achieving that will require a follow-up flight over antarctica where the balloon, due to circumpolar winds that occur between december-january, would circle the pole for 30 to 40 days.
not much can be done to halt the needle loss, though good forest management can protect the trees, they said.
that led to the mind-boggling idea of a "real" homepath complaining because tecnu is only *pretending* to be homeopathic!
the exeter ufo had similar lights.
on a slightly related note, larry hamilton of unh points out that surveys by the carsey institute say the state's public isn't friendly to climate-change skeptics: (surveys) consistently show that about half of nh residents believe climate is changing now caused by human activities; about 40% agree it's changing now but due to natural forces; and less than 10% think it's not changing now.
in a gesture that is, depending on your point of view, cheezy or intriguing, a half-dozen "walk of fame" stars have been placed in a sidewalk on main street in cambridge, mass., honoring inventor/entrepreneurs.
the associated press has a story (here's the version in the portland paper)
during this same time period, renewable energy production surpassed nuclear energy power by 5.65 percent.
microwave oven made by amana
such detection is only possible above earth's atmosphere and by means of large, heavy detectors such as cgro because gamma rays are highly energetic and require a lot of mass to stop them.
"when we retrieve the gear, an analysis will be conducted to identify their associations with vertebrate and invertebrate animals."
the firm, nei electric, concluded it would take 40 years and cost $40 billion to bury the state's existing power lines.
more pi day stuff than you can shake an irrational number at new scientist, bless its british heart, has put together a slew of pi day-related events and other stuff (read it here).
jim haney, professor of freshwater biology, helped with cultures of  daphnia, which are common in new hampshire lakes and ponds.
don't forget: science cafe on "digital privacy" tonight in concord don't forget: tonight, science cafe new hampshire will discuss digital privacy … does it exist?
the idea of individual, private land ownership registered with a governmental entity, now called a register of deeds, was new when europeans began settling the americas.
may 20, 2011 e-books outselling printed books at amazon amazon says it is now selling more e-books than hardcover and paperback printed books, combined, by roughly 5 % - and that doesn't include free e-books.
triangular manhole covers vs. circular manhole covers - size matters
at one time nye depended for a supply on strandings along the coasts of massachusetts bay, buzzards bay and on cape cod.
most online newspapers have phased out broad-based issue forums in favor of  encouraging readers to interact to specific news articles and features.
the boston.com story is here.
if it works as planned they'll save $150,000 a year, which means a roughly 15-year payback on the $1.8 million system.
last year a 14-year-old sued the site's parent company, saying that the site knowingly allowed a convicted pimp to buy ads soliciting sex.
it was smelly work, but i never gave it a thought.
only this time it's going to be fired with some zippy little  heating element, which means that some kid somewhere is going to be very  unhappy when his parents rip the thing apart insisting that they can change the  bulb themselves.
they tended to be superficial rants, insulting anybody who is different than the writer (different race, different politics, or, heaven forbid, living in massachusetts) or else were echo chambers of carbon-copy opinion from far away, made in response to some call to arms by an activitist.
over the years, hotels, b&bs and restaurants have found that claiming to be haunted is a great way to get free publicity and draw an occasional curious customer.
oh, and it might knock out some satellites … but that's a small price to pay if we get to see colored lights in the new hampshire sky!
here's a story from publisher's weekly.
here's background info on zebra mussels.
fungus that causes 'white nose syndrome' in bats is identified; no easy solution new scientists is reporting that experiments have nailed down the species of fungus that is wiping out little brown bats through white nose syndrome, and confirmed that it passes via contact and not through the air.
a nashua restaurant is the latest  local  spot to take this route, with a lame youtube  video of  people's reflections in a small glass window.
march 7, 2011 good riddance to incandescent bulbs
" fall astronomy festival at unh this weekend nasa astronaut and university of new hampshire alumnus lee morin will be among the participants at unh's firstnew england fall astronomy festival.
but the approach was intriguing.
here's the story update:
"the ion composition time-of-flight/energy telescope we're building for the satellite's solar wind composition instrument will do the actual particle measurement," says galvin.
i surround the part with a rolled up bandsaw blade that was due to be tossed out anyway.
i got about 3.5 inches of rain total, which is hardly record-setting, and only a few medium-sized branches fell.
there was just this little disconnect that has cost the center some serious money.
the annual milford great pumpkin festival is one of those family-friendly autumn events that take place around the country.
in general, the discussion is pretty good.
here's more information about the conference.
instead of forming bolts of electricity, though, the plan is that enough  electrons will be collected and fed into the electrical grid.
the network of more than 100 towers dotted around the north american continent measures the covariance (how much two variables change together) of vertical wind velocity and fluctuating carbon dioxide (co2) concentration around the tower's one-square-kilometer footprint.
(he even called the physicist a "global-warming-ist", a wonderful term i hadn't heard before.)
more instructions are here.
may 2, 2011 funny science songs and other ig nobel silliness â tonight
if you want to know more about all those planets being discovered around  other stars, including one system with six - count 'em, six! - planets, you'll  want to check the super steller friday program tonight at the mcauliffe-shepard  discovery center in concord.
from the story: first, they consider the weather, using three different services: will it be hot?
the latter use eddy currents to separate "slugs" from real coins, because different conductivity levels cause the rolling objects to be slowed by different amounts.
sounds like fun … unless you get it wrong, of course.
finding a shark in the woods, 50 miles from the ocean i was going to link important but dull stories about underwater turbines or concrete science, but this one is more fun:
notably, no. 2 on the list is pilgrim nuclear plant in plymouth, mass., between boston and cape cod.
the harvard box office handles all ticket sales: https://www.boxoffice.harvard.edu (they are non-cheap: $65, $45. $35, depending on where you are in the auditorium; students $40, $30.
the state's oldest isp is reorganizing â (note: i misstated the situation earlier, misreading an email exchange, so i've rewritten this) mv communications of manchester, a small independent ispthat started way back in 1991, making it the oldest in the state and one of the longest-running in the country, is reorganizing.
the complicated machinery behind 'single-stream' recycling cnet's green tech blog visited a huge single-stream recycling facility in massachusetts, and talks about the cool machinery that separates paper from plastic from various metals - including "eddy current" magnetic fields that can be used to separate aluminum cans, even though aluminum is not affected by magnetism.
map geeks unite, you have nothing to lose but your obsession over coastline lengths i love maps, and i suspect many of you do, too - it's a geek-ish thing.
be there, or be non-ig-ish tickets for the twenty-first 1st
i ask this question because of a comment by reader john rosenau on my previous post, in which i complained that i had bought homeopathic poison-ivy medicine from a company called tecnu, without realizing it.
as tolkein fans know, smaug the dragon of "the hobbit" fame slept on a lot of gold and diamonds before bilbo did his burglarizing best.
http://improbable.com/2011/04/25/scientists-et-al-sing-improbable-science-songs/ be there or be square.
the bmsb stink bug two new invasive bugs set their sights on new hampshire did you know that the state has a program in which bugs are collected from  filters in people's swimming pools, and then analyzed?
probably not, but i certainly don't want that or other internet news services to be my only remain choice.
http://blog.makezine.com/ i would recommend that all parents let their kids know this is available  and give them enough tools to 'bend' circuits, take things apart and build new  things from the parts.
you can blame most illustrations (like the one attached) which are draw at misleading scale if they were done to real scale you wouldn't see diddly-squat.
voltages and currents are low enough that there is almost no hazard from fumes or fire.
actually, we might â€“ because that's what happens every  time we turn on a traditional light bulb.
that's an example of "imitative magic", which is also  reflected when you stab pins into voodoo dolls that like like your enemy.
it's obvious why, of course - ipod/iphone touched more lives in an obvious way than unix, although the reverse might be true if you look under the hood - but hall was still a bit annoyed.
i like computers, i can hardly conceive of what my life would be like without the internet and email.
i don't care too much about the product; the main reason i compost food is to make the trash less smelly on the weekly trip to the dump.
"either voters had done their homework before they got to the polls, or once they got there they figured it out quickly."
it may hit 100 degrees today.
mcguire and some other sponsors are associated with the free state project or similar limited-government political ideologies, groups that tend to be more open to non-traditional approaches to government.
i've got around 20" on the ground now.
communication with satellites in space will also be possible in order to receive and make transmissions to other parts of the world.
sure, a pilot might prefer one over the other, but it's probably just a case of whatever he or she is used to."
clearing out gravel and re-shifting a river's flow cost money and cause more problems, he said.
buying a computerized toy, sitting back and watching it go through someone elses programmed idea of 'fun' is just so limiting.
studies showthat changes in ocean circulationdriven by warming waters could raise sea levels an additional foot or more along new england shores by the end of the century.
the original terminal/control tower of what was then grenier field, now boring titled manchester-boston regional airport.
wednesday morning update:
the nor'easters improved to 1.5 - 3.5 on the season and need to keep winning matches if they want a chance to defend their 2010 title.
think of it like the biggest sleepover you'll ever go to enjoying classic, premiere or schlocky sci-fi films.
free-press story here.
over time, the ice forms as snow is compacted at  the surface by subsequent snowfall.
as i have mentioned before - probably too many times - i have joined a volunteer group called cocorahs (community collaborative rain hail snow network).
a little googling found a noaa training seminar for use of what's called dual-polarization radar, which is being rolled out around the country.
the amazing thing, as cnet reports, is that it will be operated by two guys using one pc.
financed with a $2 million state department grant, the suitcase could be secreted across a border and quickly set up to allow wireless communication over a wide area with a link to the global internet."
it's still in the original box along with a sheet describing the contents and other products.
in all my travels, i've used the canadian loonies (and twonies), the new zealand kiwis, the english pound coins and the euro coins in spain.
in its current incarnation, grape uses 16 polarimeters designed and built at the ssc.
it garnered a surprising amount of debate, with some folks saying only wimpy losers did it, others saying only ignorant flatlanders didn't do it.
it started in 2007 and wraps up this year.
the wonderful straight dope column has a great summary of people's variable susceptibility to poison ivy -read it here.
after the column came out, i was reminded by readers about the new hampshire dragonfly survey, which has volunteers charging through bogs and fields, looking for the one flying insect that is even cooler than butterflies.
friday night's program will feature dr. mark mcconnell and a look back on the apollo 14 mission, how it was conducted, and how it contributed to our understanding of the moon.
it will be unveiled tomorrow; i have a press invite but don't think i can make it.
at 30 degrees, for example, a pound of salt would melt 46.3 pounds of ice, while at 10 degrees that same pound would melt just 4.9 pounds of ice.
to the good, turning bowls of this affected wood reveals a beautiful pattern, contrasting with the often plain appearance of ash.
the video isn't online, butthis summary says they busted it - that is, they couldn't start a fire from pure friction, not even when dribbling gasoline on the hot, spinning tire.
in summer, utility planners have increasingly turned to a tool known as demand response, in which big customers sign up to have some of their power switched off in exchange for cash payments or cheaper rates.
first wind, which shelved an ipo last year because of the recession, is pushing for several other sites along maine ridgelines.
the contest is based on the long-running formula sae (society of automotive engineers) in which students build scaled-down races and compete for design, acceleration, handling, and endurance.
july 12, 2011 save endangered mudpuppies or battle invasive lampreys - a vermont quandary nobody said being an environmentalist was easy.
forcing everybody to pay, they opine, will just make your audience disappear and cut your income.
here's a snippet of lyrics - a program team member to the tune of "if i only had a brain": â â â i could turn bugs into features knock the rest into the bleachers create a million-line download â â â a computer over-achiever not an extra from 'leave it to beaver'
it won't be online, though; you'll have to buy a copy to see it.
who find bones amid their digs and want to figure out what species they belong to.
they are strong enough to be useful but not strong enough to be dangerous.
but nobody is quite certain; while  breeding pairs are highly unlikely, it's possible that a wild animal or two has  escaped from captivity and is lurking near mount monandock or the white  mountains.
gathering acres of water chestnuts with a floating lawn mower they've started "harvesting" invasive water chestnuts on the nashua river. -
co-investigator jason box of ohio state university will develop and refine global-scale land ice inventories using satellite remote sensing imagery from a variety of nasa earth-orbiting satellites.
happy birthday dean - i hope you're still cheering on first robotics events when you're 100!
"we estimate a  rate that is three times greater than those of other invertebrates and 30  percent greater than that of human." "one theory is that daphnia is so good at adapting to so many  environments because it has this huge catalog of genes to call upon," says  thomas.
march 8, 2011 are energy efficient devices really better for the environment?
the easiest example to understand is airbrushing.
, that's partly because of the increased  costs of environmental regulation of coal, which is the dirtiest of major fuels  by most measurements, and partly because of the cost advantages of natural gas.
make blog one of my frequently visited sites is the make blog, an assembly of interesting projects that creative people are doing.
that's the "green jobs" idea, which is still in its infancy at best.
hey, at least they didn't try to put any spin on it.
the closest pins are in quebec, which has the mount megantic dark sky preserve - designated as such by the international dark sky association.
in cambridge, mass.,jaybridge robotics has done that with a john deere.
we had tropical fish when i was a kid, so i can't get on too much of a high horse about the hobby, but it is definitely a bad thing from the point of view of the world's ecology.
if you're carving your jack-o-lantern with a knife, you obviously weren't at makeitlabs last night - where, among other things, designs were carved with a laser cutter 'incident at exeter' ufo was lights from refueling tanker, say skeptics the latest skeptical inquirer magazine has an article by longtime skeptical investigator joe nickell which says the famous "incident at exeter" ufo sighting in 1965, basis of a book of the same name that is one of the best-selling ufo-related books ever, can be explained by the operations of a kc-97 refueling tanker.
at 30 degrees, for example, a pound of salt would melt 46.3 pounds  of ice, while at 10 degrees that same pound would melt just 4.9 pounds of ice.
(no worries about other drivers!)
or scottish folkieal stewart, for that matter.)
but it had never really hit me like that before.
it will be clear and reasonably dark (the moon is waxing crescent), and not too cold considering the time of year.
amid the scarecrows and pies and face-painting, they've long had an interest in public destruction related to pumpkins; for several years they featured a locally built trebuchet that flung pumpkins into railroad pond, trying to sink a boat.
here's the link - via boingboing
"witness trees were used to designate property boundaries by towns, farmers and developers.
for example, vcrs or dvrs that get their time from cable systems or the internet probably won't be affected, but those with clocks tied to the electric current will be off a bit, matsakis said.
if we can get to a point where we're seeing hundreds or thousands of sources in sky, then we can start doing more science to broaden the understanding of the way the universe works.
the heaviest is yet to come.
the new tracking project is led by iain macleod, executive director of the squam lakes natural science center in holderness, nh.
the idea of earth hour has always seemed reasonable - there's nothing like turning off lights to make us realize how much power we use - but somehow it never has managed to shake off the aura of empty gesture.
the devices are being offered as part of a three-year study aimed at monitoring nh snow cover and reflectiveness (an important piece of information for climate modeling).
this approach, known as approval voting, is the simplest form of  various alternatives to traditional voting patterns.
this little unit isn't nearly big enough to use at home, but for a single room, closet or closed up rv, it seems to be the right choice.
but it does nicely summarize his award-winning work: "dr. lipscomb's research involved developing x-ray diffraction techniques, usually used as a tool in physics, that allowed him to map the connection of the atoms in an important but puzzling group of compounds called boron hydrides."
( this cocorahs pageexplains the process and shows one, which can be just a piece of painted plywood.)
http://www.snopes.com/luck/chain.asp august 17, 2011 magnetic paint the mont vernon library wanted to mount a metal panel on a corner post so that they could display notices easily.
it was fun, and i got to talk about one of my most enjoyable stories/columns, when i tried to calculate the number of leaves that change color in new hampshire each leaf-peeping season.
friday admission prices are $10 adult, $9 senior/student, $8 child and groups of 15 or more.
as always with these free (free!!!!!!)
there are all kinds of technologies."
consider the story of an intriguing heat pump, one that's more efficient  and works better in cold weather, that was developed by an engineer and built  by a small bangor, maine.
we who cut, stack and move wood for our winter warmth have a much more intimate feeling of just how massive this investment in personal energy can be.
i wrote a while back about a program to transcribe century-old records of fishing catches at new england ports, to give oceanographers some idea of fish populations in previous years.
may 15, 2011 10 "unsolved mysteries" that science easily explains cracked magazine was started as a low-rent competitor to mad, and i'm not even sure it still has a print edition -
"anglers are unlikely to catch the rosyside dace using hook-and-line because of its small size, but incidental capture is possible by means of baitfish trapping," said jason smith, fish and game biologist.
three of his doctoral students also won nobel prizes - that's saying something.
" february 26, 2011 instead of chipping ice away, why not dynamite it?
october 18, 2011 on saturday, n.h. gets its first skepticamp
july 30, 2011 a visit to the overseers of the region's power grid the globe has a story today about the power-use prediction work at iso-new england, which controls the region's power grid.
by the way, coveritlive is free to us.
june 18, 2011 what are the odds you live in an odd-numbered house?
it's weirdly satisfying, in a weather-geeky way, to upload your backyard  numbers and see your data on the state and national map.
it's better than earthquakes.
the name comes because they contain lots of oil and floated when dead,  which made it easier for whaling ships to snag them - that is, they were the  right whales to look for.
as of the moment only a few people have signed up (as you can see here), but still - where else could you go to make "citation needed" jokes?
wild turkeys might be our best wildlife restoration story of recent years.
the deeper issue is whether this pattern is linked to the rapid changes that global warming is causing in the arctic, particularly the drastic loss of sea ice.
both of these, by the way, are tiny, tiny amounts.
it's kind of entertaining,  in an exasperating way, to watch  humanity waste mental effort on  something so incredibly stupid.
the science careers blog pondered this weighty question - you can read the whole piece here.
(the name comes from no. 5 plastic, the type used to make caps because it holds threads better than the no.1 or no. 2 plastic used for most bottles.)
the latest example, an attempt to create artificial photosynthesis to split water into hydrogen and oxygen using just light as a power source - the idea being to create hydrogen for fuel cells.
i bring this up because (a) i have nothing else to write about, (b) winter is slowly disappearing, and (c) the speed bump cartoon this morning is a very funny take on the topic -so read it here.
headline i hope is true: "accidental find may lead to cure for baldness" nothing local i can find this morning, so let the hairline-challenged among us read this story and dream: accidental find may lead to a cure for baldness ucla scientists were studying the effect of a hormone known as corticotropin-releasing factor (crf) on stress, and say the balding mile got hairy again.
peregrine falcon - adult female bands - 987-63743, and 1/h black over red
the official website about gps talks about this issue on its front page,here .
mass. battery firm a123 may power gm's electric "city car" general motors is likely to announce (soon, so reports say) that it will develop an all-electric "city car" based on the spark model that they sell overseas.
(i may not say "hooray" when i go to get the car out of the  driveway, however) ham radio at mcauliffe center (how's your morse code?)
the crust rebounded so violently that within 3,000 years, sea levels were some 200 feet lower than today's.
another piece says innovation les to olsen's fall as well as his rise,  because while he saw minicomputers toppling mainframes, he couldn't see  personal computers moving in hext.
mice aren't men, alas ...
if those numbers increase sharply, as climate models indicate they will, flooded roads will become the norm.
the network design will begin immediately, with construction of the first phase of the network to be completed in spring 2012.
there are complicated economic arguments and environmental arguments about  the plan (is "big hydro" green or not?), but i noticed from tuesday's  protests at concord that the anti-powerline folks argue that the lines would  increase childhood leukemia.
january 10, 2011 unh helps sequence strawberry genome from unh news service: an international team of researchers, including  several from the university of new hampshire, have completed the first dna  sequence of any strawberry plant, giving breeders much-needed tools to create  tastier, healthier strawberries.
*i love that name "northeast kingdom" - it's even better than "north of the notches" *i love that name "northeast kingdom" - it's even better than "north of the notches" is the atlantic cod making a comeback?
a cougar killed by suv in connecticut - does that say anything about them here?
some of these exciting stories were even true.
but i'm sure that enough of the roughly 150 regular cocorahs observers in n.h. will jump at the chance.
but many others are doubtful, saying the recent events  are unexceptional, or that more evidence over a longer period would be needed  to establish a link.
so i'll cut-and-paste a portion of that column: eddy currents in electromagnetism are analogous to eddy currents in the  ocean, which can swirl opposite to the general flow of water - such as when the  outgoing tide moves around a pier or you pull an oar through the water.
after looking around, i found several computers that didn't have  any protection at all from lightning strikes.
the local paper says "courtroom testimony" indicates that mallove was beaten to death in a fight after the people, former tenants of the house, "learned mallove was throwing away (a former tenant's) parents' belongings after their eviction."
maybe it's a map of moonshine distilleries?
california, meanwhile, is talking about a cap-and-trade program of its own, which because of the size of that state's economy would have even more oomph than rggi at its peak.
and like the virgin nymph of greek mythology that shares its name, daphnia thrives in the absence of males â by clonal reproduction, until harsh environmental conditions favor the benefits of sex.
it seems that the issue of climate change has become so politicized that everybody assumes people worried about the reality of climate change can't possibly be republican.
stand back, best buy, i am armed!
homeowners, landowners, and foresters should expect to see unusual and excessive shedding of infected, one-year-old tree needles over the next few weeks as needle diseases, caused specifically by three fungi, have reached epidemic proportions around the state, according to mfs health and monitoring staff.
his family wrote a long obituary  discussing his personality, which isworth a perusal here.
nh uses more natural gas than coal, overall (2005 figures showed natural gas at 16 percent of total energy use, coal was 10%,according to the state; nuclear was 22%)
january 26, 2011 n.h. kids' steering wheel sensors detect distracted driving some home-schooled teens in londonderry have gotten federal attention from an invention that would put sensors on steering wheels to detect when drivers have removed their hands for too long - a sign that they may be texting, combing their mustache, eating burritos, or otherwise distracted from save driving.
the company's website gives no explanation; this comes from an article by crane's detroit business (article here): water is pumped in as wind blows through, forcing a mist of tiny water droplets out pinholes in the aluminum.
the u.s. is slowly banning incandescent light bulbs (cue lamentation or celebration, depending upon your mood).
"our method is a data-driven approach, meaning it is an empirical, statistical model using vast amounts of data being gathered year-round on an hourly basis by the network of flux towers.
â¢ the 24/7 lectures, in which several of the world's top thinkers each explains his or her subject twice â first in 24 seconds, and then in 7 words.
most online newspapers have phased out broad-based issue forums in favor of encouraging readers to interact to specific news articles and features."
this is the result i got at home: wired, by the way, calls this the nerdiest holiday ever!
email, with the caps key locked.
by coincidence, yesterday was the 34th 44th anniversary of the only comparable american space disaster:the fire that killed three astronauts training for the first apollo mission.
discovery center educator mal cameron will present a virtual exploration of titan with what we have learned in 365 years of study as part of super stellar friday at the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center.
moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) on nasa's terra satellite captured this natural-color image on october 30, 2011.
how do you hurt a toe when it's encased inside a tough, sold ski  boot, i wonder?
150 is a nice start, but it isn't much really - think of how many gas pumps there are in boston, if i may tweak theclassic recruiter "watch you think aloud" question.
those approaches are likely to result in some applications (such as some real-time applications) breaking or seeming slow."
lampreys aren't invasives, but their population has exploded, due probably to pollution and other man-made changes to the ecosystem
26 years old at the time, cocchiaro had a front row seat for columbia's first five landings, documenting the news as editor ofdessert wings, the base's installation newspaper.
man, they really *are* everywhere this year.
as of right now (6:30 a.m.), there's a 70 percent change of thunderstorms in mid-florida, so atlantis is unlikely to launch in five hours as scheduled.
a list of these publications can be found at  http://www.biomedcentral.com/series/daphnia.
earle rich mont vernon, nh january 19, 2011
a half-century ago, the soviets launched yuri gargarin into orbit, freaking out the u.s. and launching the space race for real.
although it's distressing to live inside it, the collapse of newspapers' century-old business model (journalism subsidized by advertising) has been interesting to watch, now that different papers are trying different ways to get people to pay for online news.
once those sensors are damaged, they don't recover.
fahrenheit, of course) when i went to bed, but 5 above when i got up.
mallett began to realize that it would cost too much to have full-time internet connection instead of his "dial in every now and then" model; if he wanted to make that step, he needed paying customers.
but being cautious can make sense when you're dealing with lots of money, because new technology may let you down when it moves into the real world.
at acadia national park, they're celebrating the lack of light pollution with a "night sky festival" (short article here)
here are some statistics: state - estimated % of adults in wireless-only homes n.h. - 16% mass. (suffolk county, which is boston) - 25% mass. (rest of state) - 15% vermont - 20% maine - 23% republicans (yes, republicans) co-sponsor a conference about dangers of climate change
the story is sort of a correction.
building upon prior publications in which he described a one percent  genomic sampling of a native new hampshire wild strawberry, davis played  multiple roles in genome project planning, data interpretation, and manuscript  preparation.
as a result of getting functional hearing back, i'm very careful about exposure to loud sounds.
it looks at a study which was "designed to measure the degree to which principals and deans are potentially exposed to the risk of pathogen acquisition as part of their occupational duties to shake hands" with teenagers.
these two  magnetic fields repel each other, the way the north end of one magnet repels  the north end of another magnet.
from the company press release: mascoma and valero ink deal to develop commercial cellulosic ethanol biorefinery lebanon, nh â january 13, 2011 : mascoma corporation today announced that valero energy corporation, the nation's largest independent oil refiner, has invested in mascoma corporation.
http://www.nashuatelegraph.com/topics/shuttlerollout
(weirdly, they're not in vermont, either; you'd think they'd do well in the land of the eco-heads.)
paved highways of clouds across  the skies of the north atlantic.
here's my quickie story.
if you were absolutely convinced that road asphalt was causing your heart  to defribrillate, would the local road agent have to rip up the street in front  of your house and replace it with, say, crushed walnuts?
august 10, 2011 nashua telegraph photo by don himsel - triangular manhole cover atop a circulat cover that is replacing it.
oily rags should be stored in a sealed container or in water, in  well-ventilated spots, or laid out flat (not bunched up) to dry.
a first look (for me, that is) at 3-d printing it's a little hard for us outsider laymen to tell, but 3-d printing feels like it could turn into a truly revolutionary technology, doing to manufacturing what the pc and open-source software did to the computer industry.
transportation and environmental officials in 10 northeastern states, including all of new england, are trying to create a plan that will make it easier.
the new mexico-based flight, which could last as long as 40 hours, is not designed to reach the ultimate goal of the project â to study gamma-ray bursts.
the american flag and laundry are not the same thing, thinks nh legislature
did any of these ever pay off?
here are nh communities that fluoridate.
today's ice-on-streets factoid: roadsalt bounces, brine doesn't last night's icy rain on top of snow didn't produce the morning commute nightmare i was expecting - although i almost fell three times walking to the car in my own driveway.
the nose represents the direction in which the solar system moves through the local part of the galaxy nearest to our sun and that schwadron compares to the "bow wave in front of a ship, which shows us how our motion through the galaxy compresses and deflects the material of the local galactic medium around our heliosphere."
saving species if hard and complicated, and it's still far from saved.
when i wrote about this issue 18 months ago, it produced quite a lot of discussion, as youcan see here.
it's 11/11/11, a numerologist's dream.
vermont yankee will refuel, despite uncertainty over its future
mascoma's 200,000 gallons of cellulosic ethanol per year demonstration facility in rome, new york, has demonstrated the viability of the technology over the past two years and sets the stage for the commercial facility.
(here'sthe site for that conference, which is co-sponsored by the student chapters at dwc and umass-lowell; it features some 22 presentations about student research and 5 talks by various professionals.)
perhaps its too trivial.
variants are used in a few elections here and there but have never really caught on in democracies: cambridge, mass., uses it, but burlington, vt. dumped it after a few elections.
upcoming science cafe on digital privacy - is it possible?
merrimack's solidscape has a bunch of videos on youtube demonstrating their products, which act as a good introduction to the technology:here's one of them.
the globe reports that bu is going to open part of the buildilng as a level 2 laboratory, which handles less dangerous pathogens.
it takes place from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the barley house restaurant in concord.
i take individual sheets and cover the cat who wants to hide and play tiger in the forest.
many argue that after a 1973 flood, the river was dredged and straightened, and it should be this time, too.
the newspaper business is hoping that someone electronic print will bring  in enough money to keep traditional news organizations going in some form.
the most likely explanation (as discussed here) is that an unusual ice crystal called pyramidilly-terminated hexagonal prism in the atmospher caused a larger-than-usual halo effect around the sun, which made a just-below-the-horizon sun to be apparently visible.
so far, between web comments, email and phone calls, reader reaction is 5-to-1 in favor of the idea.
the findings are detailed in an article in the journal  science this week.
25th anniversary of the challenger explosion the challenger explosion is one of those events in which everybody  remembers where they were when they heard about it.
(note that the company's website is http://www.blue2greenllc.com - that's blue2green llc, or "limitied liability corporation" - because blue2green is already taken by a photographer.)
the snowfall looks the same in both locations - but in one place it says 24 or 25 inches, differing slightly by location, and the other says 18 or 19 inches.
as for the new maine-to-mass. plan, called northeast energy link, it seems a little premature to label it as a buried line.
so show up, buy a burger and beer, and let the ideas flow.
when i heard of a pertussis (whooping cough) outbreak in merrimack schools, my first thought was "were unvaccinated kids the cause?"
a few states have already begun raiding rggi money to offset budget  problems.
one of the designs available for led light bulbs is called "corn" for obvious reasons the light bulbs, they are a-changin'
there is a much lower chance of someone being electrocuted in that case.
first delivery date is now "late 2012.
a recent article on www.physorg.com about new findings on tinnitus shows that the problem is being addressed in a couple of different ways.
"nerd," on the other hand, carries connotations of dorkiness, social ineptitude, more than obsession.
waters from places contaminated with the invasive algae didymo, a.k.a.
the fish might all be slaughtered, instead.
february 27, 2011 defining a trillion by turkey plate specials the union-leader has a piece today trying to put the number  "trillion" into perspective.
seabrook has 425 tons of material on site, with a total radioactivity of 81 million curies, while vermont yankee has 609 tons, with a total radioactivity of 100 million curies.
new hampshire fastroads is a limited liability company (llc) of the monadnock economic development corporation.
one that we are most familiar with is the standard compressor, coils and fan.
one unique application i do is to cover the truck cab with a tarp before a snow or ice storm.
they've set up separate bins in whole foods markets in a number of states - but not new hampshire,so far as i can tell from their website, even though they're partly underwritten by nh-based stonyfield farms.
among  other things, digital had 34,000 employees - 34,000! - at its height, many in  manufacturing.
a screen shot of nasa's animation of irene satellite video of irene, start to finish, in 1:29 nasa has put up an animation (lots of photos put together in almost-video form) of satellite observations from august 21 through 29, showing irene from birth in the caribbean to death in eastern canada.
july 24, 2011 today's geek/crime lesson: don't 'wardrive' if the cops are looking for you from saturday's telegraph: a 23-year-old merrimack man's search for free internet service earned him a trip to jail early friday morning.
this outbreak  of a disease that can spread like wildfire and kill people is a reminder why  mandatory vaccinations were instituted in the first place.
the answer's not so simple the union-leader does a nice job today examining a much-publicized report by the chronicle of higher education about the precentage of new hampshire legislators who have college degrees.
the 16 inches of snow melted down to 5.2 inches of water, which is the most water equivalent i've measured in the yard this year.
days with precipitation in 2010 * nh / 118 - 146 days * mass. / 122 - 139  days * maine / 110 - 133 days overall, it's pretty constant except for vermont, which comes across as  notably grayer and damper than its neighbors.
the body seems to be intact and not crushed.
" lab work was never my strong suit.
of course, it's easy for landlubbers like me to be objective; it's not an easy topic if you depend on fishing for your livelihood.
turkel understands technology, finance and energy, which allows him to put claims into perspective instead of just passing along whatever the advocate/entrepreneur/business says as fact.
anyway, the coyotes usually keep out of sight.
i am of an age that rap isn't my favorite musical genre, but any song* that containssohcahtoa is ok by me.
still, flywheels hold theoretical advantages over batteries or fuel cells in that they have no chemicals that need to be replaced or kept out of the environment, and deliver efficiencies of 85 percent or more in terms of energy in versus energy out.
this delightful detail is part of an ny times story (read it here) about u.s. efforts to create mobile networks that can work around government crackdowns in places like iran and afghanistan.
it's not that simple, of course.
i don't know much about this, but am heading up to concord this morning to attend a press conference and become an instant expert, or at least the journalism equivalent of one.
my telegraph science column runs every monday.
should plans to install somewhat interactive electric meters, as a step toward making more efficient use of our electricity, be stymied by the fact that a few people are convinced the wireless meters do weird stuff to their bodies?
use insect repellent 3.
"we can now begin  to understand how evolution works at the level of the genome on this family of  plants we all enjoy," says davis.
october 11, 2011 a trip to chocoura shows that foliage was less bed than i feared the foliage season has been so dreadful in my neck of the woods (due to a fungul outbreak,as i noted earlier this month) that i'd been afraid it was ruined everywhere.
here's a story from 2009 about cornell researchers releasing the bugs, which are native to the pacific northwest.
the continuing deaths of seals along the new england coast has led to the noaa to launch a probe.
(other subspecies, including  the florida panther, are doing fine.)
the southern half of  the country was particularly hard hit.
(that's assuming the nuclear plant is operating properly, of course.)
october 16, 2011 'manipulating' a lottery by using knowledge instead of dumb luck is, apparently, a bad thing state-run lotteries are, as the saying goes, a tax on the mathematically ignorant.
the bigfoot feet are like rubber slippers so your feet take a pounding.
but it's a weird mating ground by mammal standards: there aren't many females, and not much mating.
it runs for 10 days and, if i may quote the web site: the festival ends with the 'thon, a non-stop 24 hour orgiastic film event.
the species' identity was recently confirmed by three independent researchers.
that's part of the conclusion from hiawatha bray's look at digital equipment corp. in the light of the recent death of cofounder ken olsen.
professor william mcdowell of the department of natural resources and the environment (nren) and assistant professor wilfred wollheim of nren and unh's institute for the study or earth, oceans, and space (eos) are part of a multi-institution project that will "scale up" measurements of fundamental stream or "lotic" properties, and the effects of aquatic animals on those properties, to predict characteristics of entire stream networks.
so, over time, the fission reactions will still slow down and stop.
depending on your point of view, it's either only fair because bricks-and-mortar companies pay it, or it's just another government money grab because online sales entities don't use government services the way traditional retailers do.
as far as i can recall, it's the first time they've ever written about the chess league … perhaps they were prodded bymy story earlier this year.
from the mid-50s until the blizzard of '78,  for example, it was in a negative phase more often than not, accompanied by  some of the snowiest years of the past century.
recycling filed under environment, general, software / computing by earle at 12:33 pm one of the jobs i have down here in florida is to give advice on computer equipment.
here's a press-herald story, which notes that development of maine's three deep ports (portland, searsport and eastport) is key to such business.
advocates of alternatives to traditional "choose-just-one-person" voting say it does a better job of reflecting the electorate's overall preferences when there are more than two candidates in a race, and reduces certain ills of traditional politicking by forcing candidates to appeal to folks across the spectrum.
for each individual, the odds are only one-in-several-trillion (or maybe 100 billion) that he/she will get hit - a number that factors in the facts that only certain latitudes are vulnerable and that populations are "clumped", with lots of empty space where falling debris has zero chance of hitting a human.
one result of the format is that officials almost certainly won't know the winner tonight, unless the unlikely event happens and somebody gets 50.1% or more of first-place ballots.
" red sox fans, it's time to switch allegiance to the u.s. chess league
lost under the snow: a snow-measuring snowboard part of measuring precipitation for the volunteer cocorahs program involves  putting out a "snowboard" - a white, flat board.
of course, and not really you may have stumbled across some discussion/news lately saying that "scientists" have realized that the signs of the zodiac are "wrong" - discussions likethis one at salon, which starts out "yesterday i was a leo.
the 2011 seal survey is also part of a larger, multi-year survey of marine mammals, sea turtles and seabirds along the entire u.s. east coast which the nefsc is leading on behalf of four federal agencies.
the  same rules also prohibit the possession of live fish, other than approved  baitfish species when leaving any freshwaters of the state.
a whole lot more show up and we're going to have space problems.
you can read the column here.
the difference with this one is the hybrid aspect, which complicates things enormously.
special events are free with paid  general admission.
the heat wave moving across the u.s. hit us yesterday.
(the snow is starting  to turn to rain/ice at the moment - ugh.)
it really connected me to history.
here's the story - which notes that even replicas of clapton's guitar sell  for $20,000.
daphnia genomics consortium projects are featured athttp://daphnia.cgb.indiana.edu.
nope -it's is a portion of the map of geotagged articles in the arabic-language wikipedia.
that was one of my jobs, reaching down into the barrel of bait stored over the winter, filling the net bag and cinching up the drawstring.
amazingly often, there aren't - the background reflected by the names will be predominantly south asian (those mile-long indian monikers) or east asian (chinese/korean/japanese names that you *know* aren't pronounced the way the latin alphabet spelling makes it seem they are).
nothing goes to landfill.
it's the 31st birthday of spam!
feeling, i wasn't able to throw much light on the question.
i'm not sure how you know whether your car is a low-emission vehicle (not "light electricity vehicle", as i thought).
the south burlington city manager has suspended "the firearms and nuisance ordinance, allowing airport officials to begin using pyrotechnic devices immediately," reports the burlington free-press.
it's one of those rules of thumb  which sounds much better than :"rules of nose hair." lso, i am reminded of the great scrunchy noise that snow makes when you  walk on it
unh helps in massive genome analysis of the waterflea from unh news service: from an environmental perspective, daphnia pulex â the waterflea â is the best-studied organism on the planet.
fever, join and muscle pains may also occur.
because it stunk on the "four-year graduation rate" - zero percent!
here's the whole interview.
so as part of routine upgrades and maintenance, the city is putting in bigger culverts - which costs more money with no immediate, obvious return.
or this line: "their vast winnings came at the expense of regular bettors who play the game.
the basic theme of the discussion was that locally grown food has exploded in the past decade, although there are still big problems with distribution and other infrastructure, such as slaughterhouses (a topic i have written about in the telegraph) and large-animal veterinarians.
i have a long story about it in today's sunday telegraph (read it here ) with an emphasis on a couple of local companies that make and/or sell 3-d printers, as well as the folks at makeitlabs who just gone one themselves.
that's roughly what's happening with yu55.
you can read my  article here or be a lazy news-aggregation-reader and be happy with this  paragraph, concerning two of the editors (one from texas, one from nashua) who  i interviewed: in the process, they gave a demonstration of the way one of the internet's  weirdest creations â€“ "the encyclopedia that anyone can  edit" â€“ has grown to become a gigantic source of often  valuable information, despite the fact that all the work is done by a few  thousand disorganized volunteers who are scattered around the globe and come  and go at will.
a sample: when the tides in the harbor will be made for furnish[ing] heat light and power, when every person will own his own automobile, or whatever it may be called in that day; when people have learned how to live longer and suffer less from sickness; when sewage and garbage nuisances will no more exist.
galvin is the principal investigator for the plastic instrument, which measures characteristics of protons, alpha particles and heavy ions.
closed landfills are proving to be good locations for what might be called  small utility-sized pv plants - those in the single-digit megawatt range, which  is too big for a single company to use but not really significant in the  overall grid picture.
and if you've got a pool, sign up!
october 3, 2011 new hampshire dragonfly survey is a source of good news
i don't suppose unh's center for high-rate nanomanufacturing has much to worry about.
april 3, 2011 rising seas will cost us lots of money - like $1 billion for mass. seawalls alone the globe takes a look at the state of seawalls along the massachusetts coast, in light of the rising sea levels that are coming due to global warming.
they never really took off, and as the  telegraph's closing-them-down notice says, "forum participation has  withered over the past several months as more readers post their opinions  directly to online articles.
ipv6 is coming for a bigger net - but slowly, slowly
he doesn't have a dedicated drawer for the coins so its an inconvenience for him.
it's not easy filling all those cable channels on tv, which explains why "ghost hunter" shows exist, because no rational human being could be entertained or enthralled by people waving around electronics meters and pretending that some of the numbers they encounter mean something about ghosts, or something like that.
good weather for plants, lousy for solar power the achilles heel of solar and wind power is, of course, variability.
i can't even solve the 2×2x2 version.)
the program starts at 7 p.m. details, as always, at starhop.com nasa's page for the project is here.
i'm a volunteer precipitation-gatherer with the national community collaborative rain hail and snow network, aka cocorahs.
seabrook station has about two-thirds as much fuel stored in its pools, according to the report.
the interdisciplinary work combines glaciology, meteorology, hydrology, satellite remote sensing, and sea-level research.
who would have guessed?
return to menu november 2, 2011 warmth?
clearing out a river bed also removes natural material such as tree branches and rocks that slow a river's flow.
it was an amazing bright orange/red color, and it was like the woosh of a propane grill lighting after you left the gas on too long.
check mount washington's 7 a.m. weather report, above!
november 24, 2011 sheet music on a tablet - an idea that really makes sense i have poked at pianos for much of my life (the verb "played" hardly fits, since i still fumble through music designed for the third-year students - but i enjoy it, even if nobody else within listening distance does), and for years i have awaited the arrival of digital music scores.
we tried it on a camping trip, and nobody got sick
but the level is low enough that the state issued no warnings against eating fish from the connecticut river.
his habit of parking his very expensive sports car in handicapped parking spaces - because, of course, he's too important to waste time walking from a space that's farther away from the door.
that is one thing where technology has definitely improved things enormously.
real geothermal energy in nh?
nationwide, surescripts says "over 52 percent of office-based doctors now use e-prescribing" - an announcement it made initially via twitter, which is either really cool or really lame, i can't decide which.
a surprising amount of research and technology is behind this "renaissance" of new england farming, from high-tunnel growing that extends the season to detailed analysis of soil, fertilizer needs and microclimate.
unh helps in massive genome analysis of the waterflea from unh news service: from an environmental perspective, daphnia pulex  â€”  the waterflea â€“ is the best-studied organism on the planet.
following the program will be a free skywatch outside with the new  hampshire astronomical society including personal telescope advice and  assistance.
it uses volunteers to transcribe scanned-in weather reports from royal navy vessels around the time of world war i, giving some baseline data about world weather.
that's not true, as i well know - 5 of them have been recorded in new hampshire already this year - but it is true that we don't have earthquakes of a scope to worry nuclear power plants.
smart meters are coming to new hampshire, too (how'd i miss this?)
the 2012 boston science fiction film festival is accepting entries, which can be submitted through something calledwithoutabox, an indie-film-oriented division of imdb that makes it easy to distribute and publicize movies.
a snippet: most people come into the conversation sure they know what's right, he said.
hey,somebody' s got to pay the kids' college loans off!
article: university students placed in a heated room expressed higher confidence  that global warming was a proven fact than those placed in a neutral control  room.
report it's either 10 below or 12 below at my house this morning, depending on which thermometer you believe.
as the new scientist story notes, it's particularly confusing because earlier, a "uk childhood cancer study report, which declared that there was no risk to children living these distances away from power lines.
my column in the telegraph today whips up massive enthusiam to the edge of statewide hysteria for the second science cafe new hampshire, which happens tomorrow evening (tuesday, june 21, 7 p.m) at the barley house restaurant in downtown concord.
" you can read it here.
for my entire career i have generally been the only person in the newsroom with a science degree - yet i have not generally been the best-paid person in the newsroom.
here's a snippet from that story: thus, on feb. 3, 1988, or 21 years ago last week, (mark mallet of litchfield) registered mv.com, which stood for merrimack valley.
the unh component of this work was supported, in part,  by the new hampshire agricultural experiment station and by a grant from the  u.s. department of agriculture (national research initiative) plant genome  program.
being photographed in public should be legal, but it is creepy
netflix made up as much as 5% of my incoming mail.
here isthe ny times obituary, which in a bit of journalistic misjudgement doesn't mention the ignobels until the end.
over the weekend, police in nortwich, conn., arrested a third suspect, adding to the two people arrested a couple of months back.
here's the union-leader article.
one poster to the blog suggested that they might stand for the president, congress and the senate.
it doesn't explain why tunisians would target northern maine; i assume it was a random attempt to snag customer information or something similarly unconnected to tunisia's turmoil.
there are certainly issues about electronic medical records, but to me electronic prescriptions, as compared to scribbles on sheets ripped off pads of paper, seems a no-brainer.
each lure packet contains a blend of manuka and other scents and costs $5.
building upon prior publications in which he described a one percent genomic sampling of a native new hampshire wild strawberry, davis played multiple roles in genome project planning, data interpretation, and manuscript preparation.
( the whole article is here)
you can read the whole story, with an excellent illustration, here.
he and the governor will say who is getting money from unh'sgreen
i spotted via the union-leader's daily mix of short links to other news sources,which they call headlines.
of course, then people get really mad when it rains … the closest reserve i know of is in quebec, around mont megantic, where there's an observatory.
one of them will also be the prize in the win-a-date-with-a-nobel-laureate contest.
that's why the current gop polling is swinging all over the place; many of the counts of support aren't real in the first place.
solar orbiter will venture closer to the sun than any previous mission.
we find the opposite is true.
they provide the first images of our solar system's boundaries, which control the access to potentially harmful galactic cosmic rays as well as all other matter from deep space."
report it's either 10 below or 12 below at my house this morning, depending on  which thermometer you believe.
virtually all the fish in fish stores and tanks are caught in the wild, which means our pet-owning whims can damage populations - as if ocean acidification, reef bleaching and ocean warming isn't bad enough.
the treatment plant had a screen that caught the disks and kept them from getting into the merrimack river, but heavy rains overwhelmed the system and pushed over the screen.
my biggest problem now is where to put this bulky and heavy fuel.
the globe has a big story today about remains of a nantucket whaling ship that have been found "on a remote reef almost 600 miles northwest of honolulu."
washington state, which has seattle as well as near-deserts, goes from 44 to 224.
the 3d model is generated through the use of an a priori mathematical model of faces generally, advanced image analysis and feature extraction, and advanced techniques for deriving precise pose (or rotation) estimates from an input image.
as they do, heat levels will drop, and so will levels of radiation.
"homeopaths tend to deal in concentrations of 60x, corresponding to 1:10^60â³ he wrote.
it's mostly aluminum, but the ways and accessory parts are steel that had some rust on them.
tom davis, professor of biological sciences at unh, and postdoctoral researcher bo liu were significant contributors to the genome sequence of the woodland strawberry, which was published last month in the journal nature genetics.
but there is help at hand at  the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center on friday, during its weekly super  stellar friday event.
you can see the video here (from whence i stole the photo).
"even though they contain some of the largest concentrations of radioactivity on the planet, u.s. spent nuclear fuel pools are mostly contained in ordinary industrial structures designed to merely protect them against the elements," says the report, titled "spent nuclear fuel pools in the u.s.: reducing the deadly risks of storage.
this policy change has caused the number of comments to plummet, as you would expect.
the night will begin with tom lehrer's classic song "the elements" performed by harvard medical school professor thomas michel and nobel laureate rich roberts.
seeing it happen in such a dramatic form, like a tiny little geothermal plant, is fun.
we had hundreds of missile firings equipped with telemetry heads instead of explosive warheads.
the u.s. is slowly banning incandescent light bulbs (cue lamentation or  celebration, depending upon your mood).
the grass is always greener on the other side of the isp i've written a lot in the past two weeks about storm-related problems with internet service (which, these days, often includes telephone service), but i have to tip my hat to the union-leader, which took a very clever angle on a story today that i wish i'd thought of.
if you want to know more about all those planets being discovered around other stars, including one system with six - count 'em, six! - planets, you'll want to check the super steller friday program tonight at the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center in concord.
it finally looks like a new hampshire  winter - hooray!
you can see the paper here.
reading the paper, holding it in my hands involves more  than just reading.
these issues  exist with or without vermont yankee in service, but generally (but not always)  tend to be more widespread and severe without vermont yankee.
and here's another benefit: it makes a lot of work for people.
today it's new hampshire, from unh professor mary stampone (who was one of the panelists of the first science cafe nh, on climate change, last spring).
the google street view car on broad street in nashua on aug. 20, 2011.
fast on bonneville salt flats my column this coming monday quantifies how much gas you can save by going slower on the highway (here'sa quickie video promo to whet your appetite, or perhaps make you contribute to my buy dave a toupee fund).
i couldn't figure out why that one is so popular - can you?
'skype on a super roomba' - a videoconference robot i have a story in the telegraph today about a local company selling a "tele-presence" robot; basically, you connect in from a pc and control the thing, so you can wheel around the office "talking" to colleagues.
startling weather for humans, but a couple days of this would be a great way to contain the spread of some invasive tree-boring insects that are taking advantage of our slowly warming weather.
almost no new applications are coming in.
it was just the way it was.
my telegraph column today is about research designed to determine the  extent of bobcats' return to new hampshire, via gps radio collars and public  observation.
illsley was arrested and held at the merrimack police department on $1,000 cash bail, and was expected to be arraigned at merrimack's district court on friday, police said.
it happens so often that scientists are now trying to model when it's viable and when it isn't.
it listed through a couple and sure enough: $900+ had been spent at walmart.com yesterday using the card, but not by us.
meanwhile, as this fws page shows, the disease continues to spread and wipe out bat populations.
this is partly because lobstering is easier to control, since you can carve up territory and assign it to different boats, unlike fishing in the open ocean where it's catch as catch can.
florida has more of these than any other state.
how do you calculate the value of the stuff smaug the dragon is sleeping on?
so i can't link to it, (here's  the story online now, in a bit more readable fonts) and here's the unedited  text for you granitegeekoids to ponder in advance.
they provide a vastly cheaper and less time-consuming approach than satellite-based missions and afford an excellent opportunity for student research projects.
this explainer is from a cornell material science site (here): people working around the house often get rags full of stuff like paint thinner, varnish, or cleaner for car engine parts on them.
here's the union-leader story, which is largely taken from the announcement on the august 5, 2011 farmers markets create thousands of jobs, says ucs i love the "localvore" movement - the push for people to grow, buy and eat more food that's grown in their area - even though i realize its limitations.
picture the bucket that represents lake champlain partly filled with water from a shower head.
strap a giant motorized fan on your back, and your skiing will improve wired has a video of a russian guy who built a giant fan - lawnmower motor,  homemade blades - that he carries on his back in order to  "cross-country" ski around town.
like a ghost  who has no real affect on our physical being, only a suggestion of meaning that  once seen, remains to us as only a memory of visual content.
on a statewise basis, our annual low temperatures are rose by more than half a degree in a decade, while our annual high temperatures rose by perhaps a quarter of a degree.
if it buys all that fuel and then is shut down, it has a problem; if it doesn't buy more fuel then it might not be able to last until march, no matter what.
this current, naturally, establishes a magnetic field of its own - remember, all electric currents generate magnetic fields and vice versa.
dinners run $14.99, but tax and tip weren't included.
and was sued by the recording industry,
when i wrote a few weeks ago about nashua changing its unique triangular manhole covers, i noted that the cause is safety: they're too small to handle people wearing breathing apparatus.
don't move firewood ...
more information on  this article is available athttp://newsinfo.iu.edu/news/page/normal/17183.html.
dynamic internet in salem is assigning ipv6 addresses, as they announce here .
yesterday in my telegraph column i lambasted incandescent light bulbs because they're grossly inefficient (drawing a lively conversation in the comments section, as you'll see if you check it out.)
but it can make a difference, it provides a dose of healthy food, it re-connects us with the environment and provides a financial incentive to create something other than plain woodlands or endless buildings.
the most interesting inductee is "the stick", which the hall calls "perhaps the world's oldest toy."
if i only had the code last year we did "first side story", which among other things featured the robot singing "i feel pretty." january 17, 2011 does it rain more in nh or in neighboring states?
for years there has been a debate about whether the amazon.coms of the world should pay state sales tax.
for a full-scale flight over antarctica, 32 of the detectors will be used to monitor the sky for radiation from gamma-ray bursts and solar flares.
the associated press has a story (here's the version in the portland paper) saying that tests of a beetle called laricobius nigrinus show it to be relatively successful in reducing wooly adelgid populations in new england, perhaps protecting out hemlock population.
it kicks in june 1: telegraph story is here.
i suspect some project laundry list folks will find this distinction hypocritical, but i also suspect that most people would be comfortable with it.
a year's worth of precipitation data in my yard i have been a precipitation-measurer for cocorahs (a "citizen science" weather-watching project) for almost a year.
to mark it, i have an  article in the telegraph today (read it here, accompanied by a video that is  currently screwed up, so that the voice-over doesn't match the screen grabs ... ) explaining the process.
are we "out of africa " or "multiregion development"?
also seen in the maps is the expected feature of the "nose" of the heliosphere.
the latter use eddy currents to separate  "slugs" from real coins, because different conductivity levels cause  the rolling objects to be slowed by different amounts.
my telegraph column today is about research designed to determine the extent of bobcats' return to new hampshire, via gps radio collars and public observation.
the beetles are, not surprisingly, carrion beetles.
it is designed to make major breakthroughs in our understanding of how the sun influences its environment, in particular how it generates and propels the flow of particles, known as the solar wind, in which the planets are bathed.
one species hard hit was silver maple, which is no surprise - they're weak, fast-growing trees.
(read the whole nyt story here) (here's a cnet story)
after a woman complained that her condo association wouldn't let her fly a flag, it seems likely that the house and senate will pass a bill saying that nobody can prevent you from flying a flag around your home, although "reasonable restrictions regarding the size of the flag or the manner in which the flag is displayed may be adopted and enforced." here's the union-leader article about the bill.
the utility is also upgrading its meter communications platform, layeringsmartsynch's cellular solution on top of its plc platform for next-generation needs, whatever those may be.
the control rods are still in place.
october 17, 2011 compressed natural gas gets more popular as a trash-truck fuel nashua has bought nine new trash trucks that burn compressed natural gas.
burlington, vt., used instant-runoff for a couple of its mayoral elections, but  went back to the traditional method last year after the winner proved unpopular.
so texas is well over twice our maximum and is likely to continue there for many days as 100-plus-degree temperatures continue.
it's a primer for archaeologists (surprise!)
wired has a piece pointing to a military report that 2,000 robots are being  used by u.s. troops in afghanistan, which means than one out of every 50 of our  "soldiers" is a robot.
in the end, maybe spinning massive cylinders held in place with magnets in airless chambers at 16,000 rpm isn't the best way to store grid power.
somebody who is unlikely to return to our site (i.e., has no connecton to, or interest in, the nashua area) is unlikely to bother registering even though it's free; ergo, virtually all comments now come from repeat readers and/or subscribers.
he mentions last year's program in keene that used used $106,000 in federal money to buy 86 old wood stoves and given vouchers to help replace them.
no power at home, but irene was generally a washout here i still don't have power at home ()along with about 85,000 psnh customers in the state), but generally irene didn't do much damage hereabouts.
even cooler than an electric car is a segway-based personal transportation pod, which gm has been talking about:cnet news item here.
june 9, 2011 invasive wasp battles invasive emerald ash borer, and hopefully won't cause more problems history is full of examples of species being imported to solve an environmental problem and then causing more problems that were there originally.
carving pumpkins with a (what else?) laser cutter
the chart indicates that may 2011 produced 5,962 kilowatt-hours vs. 8,338 iun may 2011; april 2011 produced 5,526 kwh vs. 6,750 in april 2010.
specifically with regard to fish and wildlife, the new hampshire fish and game department administrative rules control the possession and importation, and prohibit the release of, non-indigenous or non-naturalized fish species to new hampshire waters.
the city's machines could only count voters' first preference; on election night it was found that nobody got the 50.1% of those votes to win, so they went to step two the next day.
"the problem here is that âhomepathic' is ill-defined."
had to believe that was 14 years ago ...
by adding emshield cnt sheet layers during fabrication of the composite, they were able to integrate esd protection directly onto the structure, making the composite a multifunctional element of the spacecraft."
what are the odds you (or, worse, me) will be hit by nasa's falling satellite?
it's worth checking out.
november 16, 2011 science cafe talk about polling leaves me more dubious about polls two hours of great, intelligent discussion last night at science cafe about the science of polling (although the turnout wasn't so hot - we need to figure out a better way to spread the word).
a separate u.s. appeals court upheld the similar new hampshire law."
the majority of the power from the project will be sold to central vermont public service and green mountain power, according to an energy department release.
it's free to enter and free to watch.
no news yet when they'll be sold by new hampshire dealers.
(n.h. allows public school vaccine opt-out only for religious or strict medical reasons, not for the vague "parents are worried because they saw something on the internet" option available in some states.)
i didn't feel the earthquake, darn it the 5.9 richter-scale earthquake that hit near richmond, va. at 1:50 p.m. allegedly was felt as far north as southern n.h., but i didn't notice anything here in hudson.
design nine will provide network architecture design and mapping services, as well as assist fastroads in all facets of project planning, including environmental assessment, bidding, procurement, quality assurance and regulatory permitting, among many other responsibilities.
some immigrants and travelers hail from countries where vaccination is not routine.
plans afoot for a 'smart grid' in worcester worcester and national grid are holding a two-day summit, in which 300 residents and varied interest groups will help to define a smart grid strategy for the city, and national grid's own plans for a smart grid implementation across the state.
in casella's system, the moving magnetic field is established by a big  drum, roughly 2-1/2 feet wide, that is filled with bulky permanent magnets.
"this was a new concept â keeping records on paper that showed a connection between ownership and land," he said.
"it's a little bit different, but it's the kind of thing that  grows on you," he said.
the story isn't  online yet (it got bumped by a big local story)
it's a natural-color picture taken by the modis on nasa's(modis) on nasa's terra satellite, on jan. 24, described like this: what do you get when you mix below-freezing air temperatures, frigid northwest winds from canada, and ocean temperatures hovering around 39 to 40 degrees fahrenheit (4 to 5 degrees celsius)?
think we got below zero last year at all), i am reminded of a rule i had  forgotten: at roughly 10 above, nose hairs freeze when you inhale.
from the report on eurekalert: in the new study, they connected a powerful electrical amplifier to a wand-like probe and used the device to shoot beams of electricity at an open flame more than a foot high.
an international team of researchers comprising the daphnia  genomics consortium, including four from the university of new hampshire's  hubbard center for genome studies, has described the complete genome of daphnia.
turning lab technology into large-scale industrial processes is very, very difficult.
the energy costs would be prohibitive and wear and tear on the equipment precludes us from doing that.
i spotted this in a burlington free-press story, here.
at 10 below,  they don't completely thaw when you exhale.
that pleasure is denied today's youth, though, because the fracturing of the net business means sales charts don't mean much - as the washington post (not star!)reports here.
"students are benefiting from substantially lower textbook costs, as well as from having immediate access to their course materials from the first day of class," said ross gittell, the james r. carter professor at the whittemore school.
it seems a no-brainer, but it's more complicated than you might think.
i recently got this email from a friend of mine, pete king: i hiked the kinsman ridge (south of cannon mt) yesterday with a couple of friends.
this means that we don't have to worry about summers becoming brutal as much as we have to worry about winters becoming wimpy.
here's the science cafe new hampshire website.
(addendum: i have gotten two phone calls, one saying that i underplayed the pain of parents of autistic children, one saying that i underplayed the pain of parents of children with meningitis.)
study: some randomly chosen politicans would improve democracy
dr. adams often encourages detectives to e-mail him a cellphone photo of remains shortly after they are discovered to see if "i can make a spot call," he said.
along with grain/wood dust exploding, a topic i discussed  a couple of weeks ago, that's the main cause of flame appearing out of nowhere.
the consulting firm and the public utilities commission decided the advantages of burying lines did not outweigh the costs, which have been estimated to be 10 times higher than stringing lines overhead.
it still good a good hour to melt, though.
cases have increased over the last five years in maine, and occur in all 16 counties.
and just to remind me that it's the end of winter, my attic is leaking.
i learned of it from this green blog item on the ny times site, which talked about the site's discovery of a "weekend effect," a clear drop-off in the amount of carbon dioxide entering the city's atmosphere on saturdays and sundays.
forbes magazine decided to calculate exactly how much that stuff was worth, in order to place smaug in their annual list of 15 richest fictional characters.
but back in 1863, a half-century before the wright brothers' success, nobody really understood this stuff, so maybe he was right.
maybe it's not so far-fetched
it raises hope for species like the atlantic herring, whose catch limit is currently the topic of much debate in new hampshire,as this story notes.
it summarizes the types of sound, such as the "whooshing" associated with the pressure from blades slicing through the air, as well as low-frequency noise and even "infrasound," which is below the common limit of human perception.
speaking of pilgrim, until it was pointed out by a reader this morning i didn't realize that it, like vermont yankee, is trying to get its federal license renewed.
(spotted via boingboing) dean kamen turns 60 today new hampshire's best-known inventor turns 60 today (as i learned from wired ).
only this time it's going to be fired with some zippy little heating element, which means that some kid somewhere is going to be very unhappy when his parents rip the thing apart insisting that they can change the bulb themselves.
further, the woodland strawberry is a member of the rosaceae family, which includes apples, peaches, cherries, raspberries, and almonds, all economically important and popular crops; researchers say the dna sequence of the strawberry genome will inform the breeding of these other fruits.
drugs, only tested on animals but having serious side effects, may lead to new medical cures.
oh boy: i'll be out there looking!
electric cars: nissan leaf coming to mass. soon but not nh; chevy volt inching closer nissan's slow rollout of its electric car, the leaf, will extend to massachusetts dealers this fall,according to cnet.
predators signal some of the animals to produce exaggerated spines, neck-teeth or helmets in self-defense.
if you're going to draw gears, don't draw 3 interlocking ones smithsonian.com has launched a new blog called department of innovation to track "all things innovative, not just in science and technology but how we live, how we learn, and how we entertain ourselves.
12 volts is about right, it's not a critical element in the process.
(checkmy google map of northeast alternative energy for more details)
it would be difficult to disable the alarm (although i know a couple of easy ways).
speaking of which, there is no better measure of how much better cars are these days than high-mileage vehicles.
intense fishing has just about eliminated most of them.
so says comed, a chicago-area utility,as reported in this daily herald story.
the company says "we didn't do it!"
"we estimate a rate that is three times greater than those of other invertebrates and 30 percent greater than that of human." "one theory is that daphnia is so good at adapting to so many environments because it has this huge catalog of genes to call upon," says thomas.
i wish i had then the same photo equipment i have now.
the bruins won the stanley cup last night (which ruins the parallel tothe electoral college paradox, but such is life) and this means boston is the first u.s. city to have won championships in the four major sports within a single decade.
the event is nostalgic, but also taps into a lingering fear among the emergency-communications community that the time will come when we'll be sorry we forgot morse code, which is the most robust long-distance communications form ever invented.
mark twickler, who heads up the wais divide science coordination office at unh, says the ice cores are five-inch diameter cylinders that get cut into one-meter (three feet) sections.
e-prescriptions soar in n.h., although we're so-so compared to other states a company called surescripts, which handles electronic prescriptions, has issued a report about the industry that, among other things, ranks the states.
i'm not a handy guy - my wife is the tool-wielding primate in our household - but i found the place an irresistible mix of hacker playfulles and workshop practicality.
the other option is a solid state device known as a peltier junction.
putting up a calendar too early, a broken mirror, ignoring a chain letter were all grounds for serious bad luck.
the company's name is accio energy, which makes it the first serious  startup i know that usesa harry potter spell as part of its brand.
to get more organisms there, you have to make it bigger somehow," said leclerc.
he'll show personal photos and "homemade" eyewitness videos of behind-the-scenes activities including the shuttle's landing and post-touchdown local news coverage.
my column on monday is about incadescent light bulbs and how they're,  thankfully, finally being phased out.
we find the  opposite is true.
remembering a visit to the old science park in boston
the sensory input of my fingers, feeling the paper, the  noisy crinkle as i flip to another page, the smell of fresh ink and newsprint,  even the short time memory of my journey out to the street to retrieve my own  copy all add up to a feeling of satisfaction.
the nao is a large scale seesaw in atmospheric mass between the subtropical high and the polar low."
you'd fork out $10 but only get $2 worth of gas in the tank.
the sun doesn't pass through the  western zodiac signs (other cultures draw different pictures in the sky, which  tells you something about astrology right there) during the times of year that  astrologers pretend it does, and hasn't for a long time.
i've always liked that noise, for whatever reason.
my sister-in-law works in a hospital in maine so i asked her the question.
dan kennedy, a longtime boston-area media-watcher, argues that the sites were set up this way, usting html5, partly to avoid paying apple a chunk of subscription revenue:his column is here.
the species was found inhabiting hewes brook, a tributary of the  connecticut river in lyme.
" you can't have good science without good measurements, and you can't have good measurement without good standards.
key to his operation is a machine he designed to handle toxic cathode ray tubes, or crts, turning the clunky glass innards from older-model tvs and computers into something called "cullets," a glass-to-glass recycling process that generates a usable commodity.
as soon as the light hit them they scattered, mostly climbing up the trees, not going to ground like a normal chipmunk would do.
what's the most famous thing to ever happen in new hampshire?
a fossil-fuel or biomass power plant is rarely smaller  than about 15 megawatts, and of course has much more total output over the year  than a solar-powered plant.
depends where i measure i measured snow depth this morning with my wicked cool tenths-of-an-inch  cocorahs ruler in two locations about 50 yards apart, separated by my house.
if you love manhole covers, by the way, drainspotting is the site for you.
my fishing buddy's comment: "trout heaven.
march 6, 2011 measuring snow is not organic chemistry, thankfully
i said they must be red squirrels, and he said no, he knew what those look like, so i said they must be mutant rodents irradiated by vermont yankee emissions -hahahahahahaha! -
february 4, 2011 mcauliffe center: 40th anniversary of shepard's moon flight the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center in concord will be celebrating the 40th anniversary of apollo 14 - the ship that brought alan shepard to the moon - tonight at 7 pm, and throughout the day on saturday, february 5 and sunday, february 6.
january 7, 2011 predator insect shows signs of success against wooly adelgid
it is a free, informal discussion, not a lecture; you can buy dinner and/or drinks, and talk and learn.
it's a relatively minor state/city election day tomorrow.
they almost never added anything of interest, and often swamped the good comments so you couldn't find them.
we have two reporters and a photographer in the courtroom.
the fish had strontium-90 )
it includes pictures of similar maps in other wikipedia languages, including egyptian arabic, swahili and french.
the 16 inches of snow melted down to 5.2 inches of water, which is the most  water equivalent i've measured in the yard this year.
it caused a 10 percent apple crop  loss in pennsylvania and delaware one year, so it's nothing to sneeze at.
check out the article here.
here is a discussion from phil plait of bad astronomy fame.
to enhance the traps' ability to attract beetles, mr. mastro said a chemical lure was added.
i'm not sure of the construction timeline: here'sthe not-very-updated web site; here's the department of energy loan announcement.
stampone said 2010's warmth came early in the year, with very high temperatures for january, february, march and april followed by mostly normal temperatures for may through december.
the bulk of the 49 proposals are wildlife/ecology projects, which partly a reflection of the fields in which scifund's co-founders work, and partly a reflection of the fact that it's easier to raise public money to save coral reefs than to, say, categorize group theory.
" i know of three other nh residents on the list: dean kamen, videogame  pioneer ralph baer, and gps pioneer roger easton.
30 brown-nosed bats, one of the two species being wiped out by the disease, caused as the result of a fungus, were given "supportive care", which basically meant they were kept warm and dry, for 70 days, and 25 of 26 showed "significant improvement" without the need of treatment, such as cleaning with distilled vinegar.
i've written about mascoma since 2007, when "ceullosic biofuel" was a hot topic.
flying squirrels in new hampshire - who knew?
the moon is farther away than you think (so the asteroid is less of a concern than you think) part of the reason some people are getting unreasonably worried by asteroid yu55 passing "between the moon and the earth" is that they think the moon is closer than it really is.
i didn't play with an easy bake oven as a kid - gender stereotypes, you know -
case in point: on my commute this morning, i was sitting in line at a traffic light (with my hybrid's motor off, slightly reducing my eco-guilt) when i noticed that the guy behind me was using his cell phone to take a picture of the back of my car.
" here's the whole story (from boston.com, not bostonglobe.com, so it's free).
but this presentation, from a researcher in that state's division of fish and wildlife, discounts hunting (which ended years ago) and says that warmer weather is a reasonable hypothesis: "non-hunting mortality was correlated with temperature indices, both seasonally and annually and these temperature indices have been increasing over the last 50 years."
the above item was the "sidebar" to my story in monday's telegraph about the slow growth of at-home solar energy spurred by the state rebate program, which (surprise, surprise) is having some financial issues.
i do it as part of the river-quality testing overseen by the souhegan watershed association.
(if you're confused by the headline, you don't know your kurt vonnegut.
watch tonight's ig nobel awards live on the telegraph's web site (update:
one of the methods is: (to) examine images taken by satellites that indicate forest density and patchiness, because ticks are happiest when it's not too shady and not too hot.
as the new scientist story notes, it's particularly confusing because  earlier, a "uk childhood cancer study report, which declared that there  was no risk to children living these distances away from power lines.
comments, photos, streaming video from court, in a single format the telegraph, and other media outlets, are covering an insanity trial resulting from a local murder.
the organization was established to bring accessible and affordable broadband to the towns of the monadnock and upper valley regions of new hampshire.
no mechanical devices, such as, but not limited to springs hydraulic rams, shock cords, or air cylinders.
" read the story here.
universities, not surprisingly, dominate, with a few research-oriented corporations sprinkled amidst them.
our readers-make-a-wikipedia-article project: not bad
like a bigger mount monadnock with more interesting things nearby to see.
the new magnetic field opposes the original magnetic field, just as eddy currents in water run opposite to the original current.
all events are free and open to all nashua school district students, their families, and the general public.
it uses data taken from us weather service, your location, and some information you input such as whether the administration is "easy, okay, harsh" and the level of hype about the storm, based on facebook chatter.
consider this a variation of arthur c. clarke's third law: any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from gobbledygook.
june 28, 2011 an advertising campaign with lots of graphic sex that's aimed at monkeys
" january 3, 2011 boston sends water through turbines en route from reservoir
here's my last blog post about cougars, in which i lament the way exciting "friend of a friend" reports get less exciting when you track them down.
when it comes to playing lotteries, the key metric is expected payout - basically, the sum of potential winnings divided by the odds of a given ticket winning.
february 17, 2011 fiber, cable, xdsl - it's all on fcc's national broadband map southern new hampshire looks pretty good in the new interactive  broadband-availability map released today by the fcc.
i see this innumeracy a lot when comparing astronomical distances to earthly measurements.
communication with satellites in space will also be  possible in order to receive and make transmissions to other parts of the world.
its native distribution is recognized as extending from the delaware  river drainage in pennsylvania to the savannah river drainage in georgia, as  well as portions of the ohio river basin.
learn more at the wiki here.
as a result, there is a state law (rsa 21:36) that says eastern daylight time starts weeks later in new hampshire than in the rest of the county (first sunday in april rather than second sunday in march) and ends weeks earlier (last sunday in october rather than first sunday in november.)
paved highways of clouds across the skies of the north atlantic.
it's fun to play with, and hopefully the data being collected in one spot will help for planning down the road.
olsen died yesterday at age 84.
(what have they got against south carolina?)
there are no official populations of these big cats east of illinois, although they are slowly moving in our direction.
you can see it really isn't completely spontaneous, since some external  energy is required.
save the timber rattlesnake!
the southeast u.s. saw the smallest rise over that period, although it's still a rise.
as the magnetic pole moves, should airport runways be renamed?
this is the drawback of using volunteer labor; we can be kind of stupid.
but i'm fine with that - the whole space program needs a huge reboot, and this might give us the chance to do it.
february 5, 2011 i don't just do geekery, but farm-and-forestry reporting, too last night at the new hampshire farm and forest exposition, i won the 2011  fred beane award "for achievement in reporting on issues and developments  in the field of agriculture".
october 28, 2011 fcc says rural phone fees should now pay for rural broadband the federal communications commission has made a big change to the $4.5 billion universal service fund, which was created decades ago using money from a fee attached to telephone bills.
"so what we need to do is make instruments that are more sensitive and that can probe weaker sources in the sky.
it took a few seconds for our eyes to adjust from the flash but the two of us closest though the orange cylinder was around 10 feet in diameter.
high-voltage dc can  carry electricity with great efficiency, losing much less power along the way  than ac lines, but it's difficult and expensive to switch the power to the ac  needed by our systems.
here's a snippet of lyrics - a program team member to  the tune of "if i only had a brain": â â â  i could turn bugs into features knock the rest into the bleachers create a million-line download â â â  a computer over-achiever not  an extra from 'leave it to beaver'
if a moving magnetic field passes through a material that conducts electricity (like aluminum, which is a great conductor), it sets up a current among the atoms of that material.
it was around 7:00 pm so it was pretty dark.
the problem was that the secondary had opened on the transformer.
who says  geeky stuff doesn't draw responses?
how could it possibly fail?
january 8, 2011 u.s.: many of us get too much fluoride i have long been critical of people who oppose fluoridation of public water supplies, but it seems i am at least partly wrong.
may 19, 2011 ranked-choice voting coming to portland for mayor race portland, maine, is going to elect a mayor this year using ranked-choice voting, in which you list your preference for everybody on the ballot instead of just choosing one.
it was very dead - no eyes, etc. - but was pulsating as if it was still alive, because dozens of large, black-and-yellow beetles were eating it.
it's a smaller utility and a slower schedule (set to be done in spring 2013), but it's mandatory - no opt-outs - and otherwise just as interesting.
as author and editor ofcosmology and the evolution of the universe, he is involved in searching for answers to questions like: how did our universe begin?
frank wilczek (nobel physics prize winner) & teresa winner blume (soprano), deborah henson-conant (jazz harpist, museum of burnt food), roberta gilbert (mezzo-soprano), david frieze (baritone), debra wise (underground railway theater), ben sears & brad conner (cabaret), thomas michel (accordionist), and many more!
one thing i'm finding is that "friend of a friend" reports get less exciting as you hunt them down.
the agency is still  evaluating the benefits of brine versus its cost, rogers said, but  acknowledged, "i'm a big believer in it."
the festival, being held friday and saturday at the unh observatory in durham, includes sky-watching with telescopes, talks by amateur astronomers and professional scientists, rocket launches and hands-on activities for kids.
as i've noted in the past (e.g.,here in 2009), it has never produced a noticeable drop in new england electricity usage, even when boston officially participated.
we were on the former ski area that is now a state-owned recreation area, traversed by the wapack trail.
here is the wording on the plaque: on the night of september 19-20, 1961, portsmouth, n.h. couple betty and barney hill experienced a close encounter with an unidentified flying object and two hours of "lost" time while driving south on rte 3 near lincoln.
sometimes my job is excellent.
spontaneous combustion - the real kind (unfortunately) the term "spontaneous combustion" in news reports usually refers to the unsubstantiated idea that people sometimes burst into flame and burn up for no obvious reason.
we found a tick crawling on a laptop!
there will also be a free  skywatch program outside with telescope advice and help.
company news released today may change that.
"so it's an essential role and one we're playing due to similar instrumentation we provided on nasa's stereo mission.
this one costs money, at least $60, but it's a big deal - partly because it includes participation by nh republicans for climate, a group of gop folks who think that political beliefs shouldn't make you ignore scientific reality.
but it was fascinating and well written.
this citation from the eastern states expositionfor an award given in 1974 says he was an "unrivalled pioneer farm editor who, as an interpreter and communicator of the agricultural revolution, has done much to shorten the time-lag between research findings and their application on the farm," which sounds pretty cool.
it's "dick and jane" meet a proto-carl sagan; very fun.
as people have switched from candles to oil-powered lamps to incandescent bulbs and beyond, the amount of energy needed to produce a unit of light has plummeted.
'rock snot' found in connecticut for the first time didymo, a.k.a.
for example, there's a report that climate change made the sun rise two days earlier than expected after the winter dark period in greenland.
once the  eggs hatch, they become larvae, commonly known as maggots, which feed on the  fruit, spoiling it for human consumption.
incandescent bulbs, which force electricity through tungsten wires until they come so close to melting that they glow, have been described as space heaters that release light as a by-product.
they shouldn't hide that fact.
january 20, 2011 2010 was new hampshire's warmest year on record last year was the warmest in new hamnpshire since records began to be kept in 1895, according to mary stampone, unh professor and state climatologist.
still, that's an amazing change, and is sure to fire up the whole debate.
march 25, 2011 even in white new hampshire, asian students flourish in the sciences
lyme disease is most common among school age children and middle age adults.
moving tiny samples of liquid with back and forth between test tubes, petri dishes and other containers in order to see how the contents react or don't react, or grow or don't grow, or something-or-other, is the essense of a "wet lab".
the stereo spacecraft, launched october 25, 2006 carries the unh-built plasma and supra-thermal ion composition (plastic) instrument.
first thing in the morning, if i know i'll be spending some happy hours in the shop, i'll go down and set the timer for 1 to 3 hours of heating.
the rosyside dace is a member of the minnow family (cyprinidae) and  typically inhabits small streams with adults ranging from two to four inches in  length.
two cases: a detailed study in worcester, mass., has found that asian longhorned beetle thrives in thicker woodlands than previously thought, making it more likely that it can spread through the forests of new england.
the business world is usually pretty conservative, in a fiscal/business way.
i expect it will get at least as much reaction as my "looking for mountain lions" and "parking backwards is best" column.
this is the sort of thing that complicates measurements about sea-level rise, by the way.
realistic, because nobody felt them, and the paper didn't fall into the tv-news trap of trying to make the event seem dramatic regardless of the circumstances.
earle richâ â â â â â â â â â â â â â mont vernon, nh september 9, 2011 "unusually wet or dry may become usual"
next tuesday, april 12, is the 50th anniversary of yuri gagarin's flight - humanity's first tiptoe into space, if you will.
the project is funded by psnh, which owns the hydropower dam at the site: http://www.psnh.com/environment/osprey-online.aspx.
(i wasn't involved for all of november)
" i know of three other nh residents on the list: dean kamen, videogame pioneer ralph baer, and gps pioneer roger easton.
boing boing has a post at the moment pointing to an analysis of four-number iphone lock codes.
then, they consider history: how did energy consumers react the last time temperatures rose above 90 degrees?
can moose be an invasive species in canada???
mascoma got a lot of attention a couple of years ago but has been bypassed by bigger, higher-profile efforts recently.
westlb ag is the lender-applicant for the project, which was submitted under the financial institution partnership program.
i'm not holding my breath, though.
here's the original che report, with an interactive map.
the most obvious different is that the total number of votes cast in the race would be greater than the total number of people who cast those votes.
the dealy is related to difficulty in finding a route for the northernmost 40 miles which, unlike most of the rest of the 140-mile project, would require a new right-of-way to be cut through forestland.
(between600  billion and 600 trillion, depending on which calculation you used.)
fluoride in drinking water: good stuff, at lower levels my telegraph column today is about the desirability of fluoridating public drinking water, albeit at lower levels, per the recommendation of the us government.
there's a story about him at greentech media which is built on an interesting claim, that the washing machine has done more to improve human existence than any invention in history.
of course, over this period the cost of fuel for the system stayed unchanged - zero!
* "incident" is official terminology for anything from littering to a nuclear power-plant meltdown.
a thermostat and blower distribute the heat when needed.
still, it does seem like we're passing through some sort of transition point in publishing.
(here's the wikipedia article explaining instant-runoff voting.)
how else could it have survived for 37 years?
october 12, 2011 boston of "the future" seen from 1900: where are the moving sidewalks?
it's yet another blow to the post office, if nothing else.
vermont also sampled from "the point where the groundwater flows from the shoreline into the connecticut river," said the department.
nearby indian head resort, which knows a good thing when it sees it, is is holding an event sept. 23-25 to mark the 50th anniversary of the "abduction", hosted by marden.
therefore, you should back in.
may 12, 2011 state watering down our cap-and-trade program saying that they don't want the government to interfere with the free market, n.h. senators have watered down the state's participation in the regional greenhouse gas initiative, the nation's only carbon cap-and-trade program.
for the geeks among us, one of the odd results of the explosion was the way it launched richard feynmann into the popular consciousness, thanks to the way he dipped o-ring rubber into cold water and put his finger on one of the main problems, not to mention the honesty of his harsh appendix to the rogers commission report (here).
by coincidence, the complete genomic sequence of another delectable plant species,theobroma cacao (chocolate), was published in the same journal issue.
days with precipitation in 2010 * nh / 118 - 146 days *
hey hunters - how many nanometers is the wavelength of your clothing color?
if you want to earn money from writing, write magazine journalism.
she was the founding female of the christian science church administrativebuilding nesting pair in boston.
kevin landrigan, the telegraph's statehouse reporter, said the polls that campaigns really care about ask indirect questions - e.g., "is the country headed in the right direction?" - that they extrapolate for future support.
our snow was was pretty fluffy: 8-1 water/snow ratio at my house, 16.5 inches of snow fell in yesterday's storm, the first decent one of the winter.
the presenter will be john nolin, a research project engineer at theunh-space science center, a program manager for designsmith llc, chairman of asme/nne, founder ofnh-swug, and formerly worked as a product specialist for solidworks (the merrimack-based 3-d printer firm).
since rsa security was founded by the guys who invented the rsa public-key algorithm, it would seem to be as secure as they come.
wikipedia gathering in boston on saturday (june 25)
july 8, 2011 final shuttle takes off on schedule update: it went off on time!
a record rainfall april on top of melting heavy snowfall turned the shower on full blast, and northwestern vermont is still struggling with the result.
it includes a link to a very funny parody site calledfancy parking.
if you only go to one halloween party, makeitlabs might be the one to try
eventhe league's web site is rinky-dink.
slashdot pointed me to the story of one guy who tried this, with a self-published book about ubuntu, the linux distribution.
the powers that be shouldn't try to keep that right to themselves.
had that not been possible, the science mission would have been severely compromised," mcconnell adds.
the idea is to help spot invasive insects - particularly the dreaded asian longhorn beetle - as they sneak into the state.
they all take the point of view that only ignorance or cupidity would lead somebody to disagree with their strongly held belief - but that's a point of view taken by most of humanity regarding most topics, so it can't be held against them.
the car i'm driving was my wife's before we swapped.
arguably, more is known about the ecology and stress biology of the water  flea than any other animal.
california, meanwhile, is talking about a cap-and-trade program of its own,  which because of the size of that state's economy would have even more oomph  than rggi at its peak.
some of us, (not me) are leaving our rvs here until the next volunteer season of 2012.
nh birds: 1/3 doing well, 1/3 so-so, 1/3 in trouble new hampshire audubon has issued a citizien's version of its report on the state of new hampshire birds, showing that (very roughly) 1/3 of the 186 species that breed in nh are in good shape, 1/3 are stable or lacking data, and 1/3 are declining, notably those who depend on shrubland and grassland.
i've got to wonder about the various appalachian trial through-hikers that litter the whites this time of year, huffing and puffing their way toward mount katahdin before fall hits.
here are a few delightfully scrambled sentences taken from recent spam: my mate primary identified your blog site on the search engines and he or she alluded your site to my opinion.
a proposal for a housing development in south boston with a checkerboard, slanted "green roof."
" (writing this past has left loudon wainwright iii's "dead skunk" in my head … for better or worse.)
"here's a boingboing story.
what is the effect on ecosystem services, such as the availability of freshwater, across regions and continents?
this is how science is supposed to be: i joined bell laboratories in the fall of 1978.
i'm a fan of copyright laws (as are most people who "create content" for a living) but this seems a little excessive.
the all-time record for peak demand in new england was set on august 2, 2006, when consumer demand reached 28,130 mw.
the letter says the website is a popular destination for individuals seeking to exploit minors and points to more than 50 cases, in 22 states over three years, involving the trafficking or attempted trafficking of minors through backpage.com.
nrc: mass. nuclear plant has relatively high earthquake risk the nuclear regulatory commisson says all of america's 104 nuclear power plants are prepared for earthquakes, meaning each has a better than 1 in 10,000 chance of a core breach due to an earthquake.
that process of creating heavier elements in supernovae in particular generates or creates a lot of radioactivity, and we were able to measure that with comptel.
the latest projects (with video) shows how to make a  linear actuator from a deoderant tube.
now several japanese companies ramping up electric-car production want to make the system easier, developing and selling modules that will draw out dc power from car batteries and make it available to your home ac system.
yeah, just keep on doing that and one night you're going to wake up with a knife to your throat.
a whopping 11 percent of australian children are not immunized.
or you can watch "cubestormer", a machine made of (what else?)
they have established an online form for you to report those funny-looking flocks as they wander through your front yard.
for the geeks among us, one of the odd results of the explosion was the way  it launched richard feynmann into the popular consciousness, thanks to the way  he dipped o-ring rubber into cold water and put his finger on one of the main  problems, not to mention the honesty of his harsh appendix to the rogers  commission report (here).
still, its interesting to see the extent of savings that just improving the grid can provide.
after reading up on the matter, loudenslager concluded that  "these devices are capable of serious bodily harm, death, and can be  classed as a deadly weapon."
but to me, the really interesting claim is that even though the world's population is going to rise another 2 or 3 billion people, the sharp decline in birth rates means "the total amount of children in the world, two billion, is not growing."
the short answer: buried lines also fail, from water, animals, shifting soil and errant construction crews, and do it more often than you think; also, they're much harder to fix than overhead lines, which almost negates the reliability advantage - but mostly, it just costs too much.
here's the story, with some good graphics and a slide show.
fanboy alert: steven chu is coming to nh!
we will soon see a day when new computers,  servers, mobile devices and the so-called internet of things can only get an  ipv6 address.
the group of 15 students and teacher james tanton from the boarding school in southborough claim to have folded 13,000 feet of toilet paper in half 13 times (with each fold in the same direction), which would break the record of 12 times set in 2002.
there's no guarantee, of course.
here's the official statement, which includes this: from sept. 1 to nov. 3, noaa's national marine mammal stranding network, the new england aquarium's marine mammal rescue program and the university of new england's marine animal rescue center, have been working with noaa to respond to a reported 146 seals strandings in maine, new hampshire and northern massachusetts.
i don't think it benefits any  party over any other," he said.
february 11, 2011 nantucket whaling ship with "moby-dick" connection found near hawaii
a student at nashua high school named mackenzie turnbull has recorded a  math rap, and uploaded it to youtube.
i can't get one, alas, because it requires a midday solar radiation observation at your test site, and at noon i'm at work not at home (unfortunately.
nh fastroads and nnhn are funded by an economic stimulus grant and private funding to expand broadband coverage to keep the state vibrant, innovative and relevant for businesses, citizens and educational institutions.
from the story: on wednesday, google retired a longer-standing "plus": the + operator, a standard bit of syntax used to force words and phrases to appear in search results.
and there's not much hope they'll get any smarter anytime soon."
i guess our moose are more road-savvy.
probably not map from smu's geothermal laboratory showing underground temperatures available for geothermal energy.
if you want a poke-in-the-eye illustration of how much energy is wasted in the u.s., check out the superb illustration put together by lawrence livermore labs.
in case you doubt twip, note that the guy who ordered that first spam has his own wikipedia article, with several links to articles about him in more traditional publications.
the central square theater in cambridge will host "improbable research after dark" tomorrow (saturday, may 7) which in the words of the always-trustworthy annals of improbably researchm, features "dramatic, two-minute-long readings" from winners of ig nobel prizes, "performed by some of the boston area's leading scientists, actors, and journalists."
ice reflects sunlight, and scientists say the loss of  ice is causing the arctic ocean to absorb more heat in the summer.
nasa photo the moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) on nasa's terra satellite collected this natural-color view of new england, the canadian maritimes, and coastal waters at 10:25 a.m.
but it's something, and northern new england needs something.
it listed the top 10 singles for a half dozen local radio stations, and since this was when in the early british invasion, when the whole pop-music scene was exploding, my pre-pubescent self was fascinated to compare how the different stations ranked "hard days night" vs. "satisfaction" vs. "i get around."
it was pointed out by a reader responding to the article below (about maine central power installing smart meters) that new hampshire electric cooperative is also installing smart meters.
rock snot loves pristine streams - the cleaner the better one of the mysteries of the slimy creek-polluting algae known as "rock snot", more officially called didymo, is how they survive in very pristine streams.
"flying car" - says the national highway transportation administration has given them some waivers on things like tires and safety glass.
making an "accurate" zodiac not only changes the time of year for the signs but adds one, called ophiuchus, that was ignored because it ruined the numerical pattern.
boy, is that a gigantic place; i swear some of the runs are wider than runs at  pat's peak are tall.
the storm shifted west and really nailed vermont, however.
nhec operates up in the central part of the state, mostly from sunapee up to plymouth, so it's way out of our circulation area … not as far out as maine, though.
hmmm … i have a largely unused chicken house on my property and could probably work out a pretty decent rental arrangement.
both liberals and conservatives were similarly influenced by the raised  temperatures, and the effect was present even when attention was drawn to the  temperature of the room.
in an extreme turnabout of attitude, 16 years later vermont added timber rattlers to the state endangered-species list and made it illegal to kill or harass them.
the wais divide project, for which the university of new hampshire provides science coordination, is investigating the last 100,000 years of earth's climate history.
hard to see, hard to kill - even hard to knock off yourself into a jar of alcohol.
on tuesday, oct. 18, they're going to take expertise-sharing a step further with their first lecture - about mcad, or mechanical computer-aided design.
from the instructions: "the sling, release mechanism and sling ropes are left to the design of the teams.
from a mass high tech story: the center will provide the ability to test three blades simultaneously, along with 100 tons of overhead bridge crane capacity and a "full suite" of certification tests for turbine blades, according to the announcement.
here's a wired.com piece, which is pretty good except it says the farm is in connecticut.
rggi was limited in scope, since it only applied to power companies, and  limited in effectiveness, since the recession had reduced demand to the point  that the allowances, which allow utilities to release carbon while burning  fossil fuel, were so cheap that they provided little financial incentive to  reduce emissions.
the city will conduct an "instant runoff" election today using voters' second- and third-place choices â and possibly fourth, fifth and so on â until one candidate has more than 50 percent of the vote.
an amc spokeswoman emailed me that nobody can remember the huts being evacuated, at least not for decades - which i think probably means never, because before that there wouldn't have been any way to get the word out.
the portland press-herald has a story about a company doing that - in maine, of all places.
i snagged this surprising map from this bbc article about the project, run by the oxford internet institute.
here's a good, quick columbia u. page about it, which dewcribes it like  this: "the nao is the dominant mode of winter climate variability in the  north atlantic region ranging from central north america to europe and much  into northern asia.
april 14, 2011 heating with wood - something new england needs to do more of the annual heating with wood conference starts today in manchester.
their many invasive-bug-funding traps ended the season empty.
this explainer is from a cornell material science site (here): people working around the house often get rags full of stuff like paint  thinner, varnish, or cleaner for car engine parts on them.
smith recommends that if fish caught are suspected to be the rosyside dace  or any other non-native aquatic species previously undocumented in new  hampshire, individuals should immediately release them back into the waters  from which they were captured, and contact either the fish and game inland  fisheries division (603-271-2501) or the des biology section (603-271-8865).
so everything has drawbacks.
the caller had noticed a small red suv parked in the area and remembered seeing it driving slowly around the neighborhood earlier, police said.
"the report also serves as a primer on the complex study of wind noise.
i learned of them from this burlington free-press story.
the jenga columns are still separated.
the disks float around in aeration tanks and provide a place for helpful bacteria to grow, so the microbes can chomp on sewage floating by and break it down.
they usually have some political or comic or tragic theme along with a request to send the link along to your friends.
textbook prices have increased 22 percent over the last four years, quadruple inflation, according to the student public interest research groups.
so i point to salon which a remembrance today, calling richie "the geek prometheus" -read it here.
the union-leader has a refreshingly realistic story about a couple of small (under 3 on the richter scale) âquakes that were recorded near gilmanton yesterday.
the globe has an article about research today (read it here) which notes  that the nao is proving hard to predict: the link between the north atlantic oscillation and snowfall is intriguing  because the oscillation can go into decades-long periods where it is dominated  by a positive or negative phase.
new hampshire astronomical society astrophotographer gardner
and we humans think we're rational.
they filed an official air force project blue book report of a brightly-lit cigar-shaped craft the next day, but were not public with their story until it was leaked in the boston traveler in 1965.
it is the most striking change in the terrain of the planet in recent decades, and a major question is whether it is starting to have an effect on broad weather patterns.
yuri's day in moscow as might be expected, they got very excited about the 50th anniversary of yuri gagarin's flight in moscow ...here is boingboing's post about it, which has nice photos and a video.
never mind the zillion other wireless transmission pulsing through our bodies every second of the day; the wireless meters are different because ...
either way, more information is a good thing.
about 65,000 metric tons of spent fuel is sitting at nuclear plants around the country; most in dry casks but some in the sort of pools that have caused problems at the fukushima daiichi reactors in japan.
another drawback is that you have to buy the rain gauge, which isn't cheap - $25 or so.
the feds are going to experiment with letting electricity utilities slip further than normal from 60 cycles for ac current.
since i spend a lot of time at the computer, i figured i should sign up for an online program, to fill in idle moments.
here's my column from sunday (no newspaper is printed today, memorial day) about the project: http://www.nashuatelegraph.com/news/921028-196/space-fan-watches-as-the-shuttle-era.html may 31, 2011 follow the shuttle landing live ... at 2 a.m.
i'm been fearfully awaiting the arrival of rock snot in southern new hampshire; so far, it has only been found in the upper headwaters of the connecticut river.
the answer is: it seemed to help the itch, but it's a gritty paste and rubbing it on was a distraction, if nothing else.
or so says huffington posthere.
there's no new england angle to this story, but i can't resist: new scientist reports that a primatologist at yale's comparative cognition lab (hey - there's a new england angle!) is studying whether billboards can affect the behavior of captive brown capuchin monkeys, which often behave in human-ish ways.
rather, it is perfectly and eternally disinterested.
november 11, 2011 precipitation throughout nh - can you spot the mount washington valley?
unh thinks maybe so unh is wondering whether it is possible "to use wind patterns from traffic and natural flow through bridge underpasses to harvest energy for powering lighting, signalization, emergency warnings and structural health monitoring systems."
how else to explain a brand-new group named (either apologetically or defiantly, i can't decide which)new hampshire republicans for climate.
here's a dec. nhpr story about it.
march 28, 2011 making dirty water clean can be big business population growth and a warming planet are straining drinking-water supplies, so it makes sense that companies whose products can help the situation are in a good position.
"anglers are unlikely to catch the rosyside dace using hook-and-line  because of its small size, but incidental capture is possible by means of  baitfish trapping," said jason smith, fish and game biologist.
still, i've had people strongly object to receiving them.
although i was never much of a "lab rat," it was still fun to visit integra-viaflo, a hudson company that makes electronic pipette tools, operated by ipod-ish wheels, that can transfer up to 96 different samples at once.
she does that herself to find various skin parasites and diseases.
the north atlantic oscillation and big snows - what's the link?
nashua does not use the disks in its treatment plant.
the festival calls itself the longest-running "genre film festival" (this will be year 37) and who am i to argue?
in other words, almost all polls do not give enough credence to the fact that most people have no opinion about the matter in question, whether it's presidential candidates or policy or whatever.
october 4, 2011 theft of historic documents from uvm library is a shocker the university of vermont was one of several schools hit by a pair of thieves who, police said, swiped historical documents and sold them.
january 29, 2011 kindle books outsell paperbacks, hardbacks at amazon.com no local angle, but one of those interesting and potentially important milestones happened this quarter: amazon.com says it sold more kindle books that paperbacks or hardbacks (although not both together, i don't think).it's in this press statement.
as wired reports, this pits phone companies (which can use the fund) against cable companies like comcast, which provide competitive phone service via voice over ip on their cable-modem systems.
while the site is being restored, online readers will notice changes to the display of the site and will be unable to access some features and archived articles.
biologists examined the insect, which has relatively big eyes, and figured it was more visual than most.
the show is over and tom lehrer's "the elements", which was sung a couple of times as you would expect in a year when chemistry was the theme, is indelibly in my head.
i will moderate, but that's no reason to stay away - i promise to keep my mouth mostly shut, letting the knowledgeable folks speak while whoever shows up asks questions.
the main battle being fought against rock snot right now is theattempt to ban felt soles on fisherman wading boots.
major event sponsors include dyn,inc, fairpoint, cook, little, rosenblatt & manson pllc, hanover insurance group, sadler insurance agency, new england investment and retirement, and bae systems.
giant air cannon destroying things by firing pumpkins at them !
atomic power is a topic that, understandably, draws strong feelings.
scientists have studied daphnia for centuries because of its importance in aquatic food webs and for its transformational responses to environmental stress.
here's the piece (the comments told me the answer): http://www.boingboing.net/2011/06/20/most-common-iphone-u.html june 21, 2011 state's cfl bulb recycling program ends this won't make it any easier to convince the weirdly die-hard incandescent-bulb fans to switch, but the state has cut money that supports compact fluorescent recycling programs at hardware stores.
he is a smart guy, computer literate and good  at his job.
(in a follow-up, pete emailed: my reaction to the lightning earned me the trail name "flame runner")
innumeracy in writers (cords of wood, in this case)
" "swd differs from other drosophilids, known collectively as "vinegar flies," in that the apparatus with which the female lays eggs in host material (the ovipositor) is serrated like a saw, which allows her to cut her way into ripening and ripe fruit to lay her eggs, and is not restricted, as are the other vinegar flies, to already rotting fruit.
the oil drum has contributors who work within and outside the energy industry.
one in 50 u.s. soldiers in afghanistan is a robot
this is due in part to a scarcity of data; while some 131,000 mountain glaciers have been cataloged, twice that number are thought to exist worldwide.
this trend is not unique to nashuatelegraph.com.
happily, a day hike to mount chocoura yesterday showed that while it's not the best of seasons, and it's quite late in changing, there is color up north.
such guarantees are almost always required for large wind farms to get financing.
it starts at 7 p.m. and runs a couple of hours.
a judge has rejected vermont yankee's attempt to put the question of its future on hold while it sues the state of vermont, which wants it to shut when its license runs out next march.
for example, there's a  report that climate change made the sun rise two days earlier than expected  after the winter dark period in greenland.
factel (an effort led by unh physics professor jim ryan) is based on work ssc scientists and engineers did in helping build the imaging compton telescope (comptel) onboard the 17-ton compton gamma ray observatory (cgro) that was put orbit in 1991.
a cornell university expert admits that we're unlikely to stop the emerald ash borer before it pretty much destroys all of the continent's ash trees, just as blight destroyed the american elm and the chestnut.
(the similar-sized hvdcchamplain hudson power express, a proposed power line from canada to new york city, plans to be buried in railroad rights of way for 73 miles, but most of the way it will laid underwater.)
i'm moderating and promise to be impartial, althoughi have made my feelings about the topic known.
stereo has dramatically improved our understanding of the powerful solar eruptions that can send more than a billion tons of the sun's outer atmosphere hurtling into space.
you don't see that every day - so check it out.
september 23, 2011 wet flue gas desulfurization psnh says the "scrubber" at its biggest coal-fired power plant, merrimack station, is about a year ahead of shedual and could begin testing this week.
this citation  from the eastern states expositionfor an award given in 1974 says he was an  "unrivalled pioneer farm editor who, as an interpreter and communicator of  the agricultural revolution, has done much to shorten the time-lag between  research findings and their application on the farm," which sounds pretty  cool.
(i covered the first year, and most of the entries couldn't even run that year.)
they're interested in the  business aspect - oysters are a high-value food - but folks are seeking to  return filter-feeding bivalves to coasts for environmental reasons, too, since  they do a great job of cleaning tidal waters.
not an easy move for a city council to make.
he got his math phd from mit and was a math teacher for the navy, which took him to the souht pole, burma and switzerland, among other places.
and/or i aren't ipv6 ready (nor is the telegraph), on world ipv6 day
the re-introduction of the wild turkey in new hampshire has been incredibly successful.
i have always heard that mount chocoura, which is a little southwest of conway, gives perhaps the best view for the hike in new hampshire, and i wasn't disappointed.
it's on thursday, sept. 29, at 7:30 p.m. (marc abrahams, head ig, sent out a note saying "we are aware this coincides with the rosh hashanah holiday.
the new yorker had an excellent, long piece about it in december that is  well worth a read (here), while the ny times has a piece about it today (here).
but right at the bottom, in smaller type that even the net weight listing, i noticed last week that it says homeopathic.
what really bugs me is when i see other people ignoring hearing protection.
it includes the number - an inch of rain weighs 5.2 pounds per square foot of level ground - that i didn't include inan article last week about the weight of snow, much to the annoyance of a number of readers who wanted to know how i'd gotten my dat.
it's supposed to rain and  be above 40 degrees all day, so the snow should get super-saturated.
unh co-authors include eberhard möbius, professor of physics, and harald kucharek, research associate professor in the space science center in unh's institute for the study of earth, oceans and space.
mitochondrial dna gives a real leg-up to the former, but the battle isn't over yet!
the concord monitor has a story today about real spontaneous combustion, however: a pile of oily rags burst into flame and burned down a restaurant.
the subsidies are set to end in 2013 unless congress extends them, and these days congress isn't doing a whole lot.
once i got my hearing back, it was a long time before my brain was trained to ignore background noise.
my paycheck hopes it works, although my browsing habit isn't happy.
since then we've done three more statewide surveys (plus one in the north country), all getting about the same results.
the story (here) is prompted by a story about a "little child's foot" that turned out to be a bear paw about 20 percent of the cases that are vexing enough to involve a forensic anthropologist (in new york city) â typically cases involving skeletons or mummified or burnt remains â end up not involving human bones at all.
his 15 minutes of google fame has long since been superseded, though.
the project is called ultra-ex, and is one of a bunch of such research programs getting data to make decisions about how to make modern cities more sustainable in terms of energy use, water use, pollution and such issue.
the osprey, sometimes called the "fish hawk", is the only bird of prey in the world to feed exclusively on live fish.
the part i liked best was the number of days per year that it rained, snowed or sleeted.
says schwadron, "there are many theories about how the ribbon is created, and we don't understand exactly what we're seeing but it seems to be telling us something about how the local galactic magnetic field interacts with the heliosphere.
an unusual event is coming to the state this saturday.
the answer, alas, is no - we're getting much more ordinary, as the current string of 50- to 60-degree early november days show.
one of the trees has in internal dark brown discoloration inside, centered on the middle and looking like a multi-lobbed starfish.
somehow i doubt that the noah's ark museum geting $37 million in tax breaks in kentucky (story here) will really tackle this question.
it wasn't until the early 2000s that  the first bmsb began to be detected in crops across the mid-atlantic  region.
they haven't won a title, darn it!
a "citizen science" program is being launched to help measure the albedo of winter snow cover in new hampshire, via thecocorahs volunteer precipitation-measuring program.
the whole process drew quite a crowd, thanks to its novelty, clegg said; the room was packed.
warmer winters kill off fewer ticks, making moose more vulnerable: "if there's no snow on the ground in march or april, engorged female ticks that fall off moose survive to lay their eggs in june.
(note that the vast majority of  the states 240-some-odd communities don't have a public water supply, and so  can't add it.
how staggering is that?
with the guidance of volunteer amateur radio operators, visitors will be able to talk to other "hams" around the world as well as contact the international space station when it is in a favorable position.
that's what central maine power co. says, in this press-herald article, and  i can't blame them.
the story can be read here … but make sure you don't miss the most important sentence, which could appear within the first three paragraphs of virtually any mit-research story: "the next step, he said, is to make the technology work on a large scale.
i fully promote "make something friday" to indulge the craftcraver in all of us.
if you're a certain kind of geek, then tom lehrer is the greatest songwriter of the age - a cross between gilbert and sullivan, the class clown in your high school chemistry lab, and the annals of improbable research.
in other words, nrc says living near a coal-fired power plant, such as merrimack valley station in bow, n.h., exposes you to 30 times as much radiation as living near a pressurized water nuclear plant such as seabrook station on the n.h. seacoast.
new hampshire public radio has a  report (you can read the transcript here).
it is not known to occur in the  connecticut river or its tributaries, other than hewes brook, at this time.
unlike previous years, all the tickets will go on sale at once, so get your early.
what the halloween snowstorm looked like from space this picture from nasa says it all.
one compiles answers from miss usa candidates to the question "should evolution be taught in school" and the other is a parody version answering "should math be taught in school."
so i guess i won't try to get my mba while commuting, after all ...
i found this out about this essential air service program because of an ny times story about how delta wants to cut service to 24 small townsin the midwest, including south dakota's capital, pierre (which is almost as small as airport-less montpelier) unless its subsidies are boosted.
what can the health of one stream tell us about the health of an entire river system?
july 27, 2011 board to back interim nuclear-fuel storage in 'centralized' spot the u.s. should find a long-term replacement for yucca mountain as a place to store spent nuclear fuel, but in the meantime should find a short-term (decades or more) "centralized" location to store the fuel that's piling up at nuclear plants around the country.
growing up, we had neighbors up the street who were very superstitious.
patrick smith of salon says "there aren't two camps of pilot out there, with one that swears by the boeing camp and another loyal to airbus.
when found, the carcass wasvery desiccated, so she had been dead for weeks or longer and probablyblown off of a building ledge or a roof.
the animated discussions were common during and after seminars and at lunch and continued on the tennis courts and at parties.
the ribbon of energy was captured using ultra-high sensitive cameras that image energetic neutral atoms (instead of photons of light) to create maps of the boundary region between our solar system and the rest of our galaxy.
customers save nearly $1.1 billion on electricity bills, and an additional $174 million on natural gas and heating oil bills, for a total of $1.3 billion in savings over the next decade through installation of energy efficiency measures using funding from rggi auction proceeds to date * 16,000 jobs are created region wide * reduced demand for fossil fuels keeps more than $765 million in the local economy * power plant owners experience $1.6 billion in lower revenue over time, although they overall had higher revenues than costs as a result of rggi during the 2009-2011 period rggi has a lot of critics - new hampshire almost withdrew and new jersey is likely to - becaue it seems to add on costs in return for vague, tree-hugging rewards.
"but this study slights shakespeare."
approval voting is one type of alternative voting schemes, which have names like cordorcet method and instant-runoff balloting.
here's the site of the plan.
worldwide annual revenue  for the technology is estimated to reach $6 billion in 2011.
the last confirmed eastern cougar was trapped in 1938.
this is the first time in 20 years here that i've shoveled off the roof out of concern about weight of snow buildup.
no local connection here, but it's too intriguing not to mention: a michigan start-up is trying to develop a wind-power system with no moving parts.
but this is still the time of year when how to handle ice on roads is big on our winds.
leclerc snagged a couple of the disks during a visit to plum island, at the mouth of the merrimack river.
still, says mallett, having a nearby precedent helped.
so we rushed to set up the electric fence around it - although there's so much tall, wet grass that i'm afraid the shock will drain away; not sure how much of a disincentive it will be.
but it has stumbled over a few people'ssilly fear that the wireless transmitters will somehow do medical damage.
portland, maine, is holding its first race for mayor - and it will use ranked-choice voting to find a winner among the 15 (good grief: 15!) candidates.
about time - my ground was half bare!
the system, combined with iris scanners, was developed to identify inmates in large prisons so they couldn't sneak away, but will soon be seen on a street near you.
in the meantime, though, i'm waiting for the giant claw from aldebaran to seize the top four stories of the pru tower.
in the heart of canada's capital, ottawa, they use dynamite to blow up ice  dams in the rivers that run through the city, to prevent flooding when spring  melting begins.
it wasn't until the early 2000s that the first bmsb began to be detected in crops across the mid-atlantic region.
if you live next to the river, you say, 'oh my god.'"
at least two prominent climate scientists have offered theories  suggesting that it is.
here's an ny times piece about their meeting with the u.s. secretary of transportation.
the uncertainty of e-books, in libraries and in bookstores earlier this month penguin books pulled out of the e-book lending program used by 180 of new hampshire's public libraries (and thousands around the country), largely because it was pissed at amazon for trying to use the program to boost sales of the kindle at a time when amazon is signing up authors and becoming a direct competitor to publishers like penguin.
i don't have a lot of costume imagination, but for the past few years i have enjoyed halloween night because my wife and i give out candy in front of the town cemetery (the crypt is right behind us), via our "haunted hive."
you can turn on/off  categories like xdsl (symmetiric or asymmetric, you choose), cable-modems  (docsis 3.0 or other), fiber-to-the-home, and various fixed wireless options.
the hard part was making the large membranes.
i heard some of the same tales from the old men in town while getting a haircut in red's barbershop in town.
you have to reach inside the buzzing beehive - free downloadable bee sounds out of my ipod - to get your candy; my wife, hiding under the table, will grab your hand.
feds give loan guarantee to 99-mw wind park in coos county the 99-megawatt granite reliable power windpark (kind of a funny name for a wind farm, which isn't that reliable compared to fossil fuel plants) has gotten a $169 million loan guarantee from the federal government.
that side industry is building temporary wooden roads so that heavy equipment can drive over mud and dirt, carrying heavy equipment.
one class of sugars, the type with five carbon atoms, is broken off and harvested.
the free-press article (read it here) has a longer description of how it works.
there were no confrontations, probably not a lot of minds changed (when you've shelled out $120 for a show, it takes a lot for you to say "you're right - i'm being fooled!").
worldwide annual revenue for the technology is estimated to reach $6 billion in 2011.
it turns out that our  good friends at mythbusters have examined thi myth (although on the ground, not  on ice).
his family wrote a long obituary discussing his personality, which isworth a perusal here.
the article talks about a response from the company president, saying that the firm hopes to use chapter 11 restructuring to keep going.
there's lots of talk about it, and designs for various containment pipes, but if anybody has actually built one as an alternative to stringing lines on towers, i'd love to hear about it.
let the indoor lightlight revolution continue!
it is this habit that caused it to be considered, from the first, a homeowner's nuisance rather than an agricultural pest.
speaking of ham radio, the annual field day is coming up june 25-26 - a geek-fest if there ever was one!
but boy, is it dense: it melted down to 4.8 inches of water, which is just a tiny bit over 4-1 water equivalent.
the answer came tragically tuessday in maine, where two experienced workers died in a sewage pump tank because they'd been overcome by a sudden rush of hydrogen sulfide.
either comcast's dns server or my home router/moden are not ready for ipv6, according to http://test-ipv6.com/ on world ipv6 day.
yet, daphnia's genome is no ordinary genome.
a big business like walmart or target could pass these out for some limited time instead of bills for change.
is it better to back into parking spaces or park head-on?
wednesday afternoon update: new hampshire health and human services hasn't heard any mroe details about the report, which concerns a fish caught in 2010.
along with grain/wood dust exploding, a topic i discussed a couple of weeks ago, that's the main cause of flame appearing out of nowhere.
you have to buy the paper to read it, though; they haven't put it online as part of their "don't steal customers from the only place we make money" strategy.
no, the 'supermoon' didn't cause the japan quake phil plait's bad astronomy blog explains why the position of the moon didn't cause the japan earthquake, and that the whole "supermoon" nonsense which is polluting the net is baloney.
i mean the workers at the fukushima daiichi nuclear power station in japan, roughly 50 people who have put themselves in harm's way in order to save the health and lives of millions.
it is not known to occur in the connecticut river or its tributaries, other than hewes brook, at this time.
some other isps that are less prepared may be using tunneling or large scale nat in the network.
personally, i always try to do the pull-through - find nose-to-nose empty spaces so you can drive in, and then drive out - even if you have to park further away from the store.
one thing that came up at the very end of the talk, however, is that iso-ne is trying to figure out how to factor in all the various building-efficiency programs when making future predictions about what is needed.
" i spotted this in a burlington free-press story, here.
… according to the latest count, the cod population in the waters off nova scotia was at 34 per cent of pre-collapse levels.
dartmouth professor joins inventor hall of fame eric fossum, engineering professor at dartmouth college, has been named to  thenational inventors hall of fame for leading the team at nasa's jet  propulsion laboratory that created the cmos active pixel sensor  camera-on-a-chip.
even this isn't enough to make three hours spent watching 18 men in stretch pajamas chase a ball of string interesting, but still: the first ball at the phillies-brewers game was "thrown" by a robot, basically a three-jointed mechanical arm on a segway base.
in 2009, the stumpage value of the species amounted to $32 million worth of white pine pulpwood and saw timber.
so far the owners have only applied to the feds for approval of their funding approach.
to show that i'm not a complete killjoy, i'm now going to link to a burlington free press story about a vermont native who just broke 300 mph on the bonneville salt flats.
here's a march 6 story of mine (complete with cool historical photos) about the designation of the eastern cougar subspecies as extinct.
this is slightly different stuff, called medicated poison ivy scrub, designed to help after you've touched the ^%$#@ plants.
panelists include dr. jose montero, who as state epidemiologist is probably the highest-profile medical professional in new hampshire, and pediatrician (and newish mom)
cook a simple dish showcasing local ingredients 4.
studies have suggested that the bait we used has fed lobsters during their growth period to adulthood.
conventional hard-cover textbooks average $150 each.
new hampshire laws and administrative rules prohibit the introduction of non-native species.
the researchers note that more than one-third of daphnia's genes are undocumented in any other organism â they are completely new to science.
but it might hit 60 degrees here today and wont' get below freezing at night until the end of the week at the earliest.
the show starts at 11 p.m., and follows a presentation of the play "breaking the code," about alan turing.
regular electric pulsing can keep surfaces consistently ice-free while maintaining low overall power consumption.
there's nothing like a full moon on snow, for some reason.
this demonstrates how brilliant  verizon is because they waited for at&t to show the drawbacks,says slate,  or how not-so-brilliant verizon is because at&t has alot of the business  tied up already,says ap, or how savvy/desperate verizon is because it may offer  unlimited downloads to lure new customers,says the wall street journal.
independent bookstores hope you don't use a kindle, because then you can't buy e-books through them, you have to go through amazon.com.
penguin was my favorite publisher for a long time.
the other shows the alpha male of the capuchin troop associated with brand a. olwell expects brand a to be the capuchins' favoured product.
the economist, that fine weekly magazine with a boring name, has a cool item this week about the mostunexpected invasive spcies i've ever heard of.
that's the conclusion of a study by various environmental groups, which includes this interesting observation: while derelict gear is considered marine debris, it hard to determine what impacts it has on the environment, and marine life.
bu student challenges $67,500 fine for music file sharing
they did not seem to be doing much of anything.
the house wanted to eliminate it entirely, so this is less of a loss for the program than it could have been.
so we've set up a google voice account so we can talk to her cell-phone for about 1/20th as much.
or sports, of course.
that's about, oh, 20 times the amount in new hampshire, by my estimate.
under the terms of  the letter of intent, valero would potentially invest up to $50 million of the  equity required to finance the project through frontier kinross llc, a  subsidiary of frontier, and would enter into an off-take agreement for the  project's ethanol production.
email, with the caps key  locked.
the bigger immediate news, of course is that the service is joining others in instituting a data cap.
(think edison, jobs, hewlett & packard …)
psnh wants to do that in manchester,  but there is a dispute about how they would pay for it.
the whole list is here.
the latter  brought us firmly into the route 128 technology-industry camp and set us on a  path that we're still following.
dry rock salt bounces when it hits the road surface, and a significant amount can end up outside travel lanes.
changes in the way i receive information every day.
just visiting it and seeing the whole spring-break-meets-backcountry-ski vibe is worth it, though.
from the story in the globe and mail: "the nature study traced the increase in cod stocks to the decline of forage fish, which prey on cod during their early life stages.
"this isn't a partisan issue.
if you responded, sending stamps or a dollar bill to the person at the top of the list, you were guaranteed thousands of dollars return on your small investment.
february 4, 2011 mcauliffe center: 40th anniversary of shepard's moon flight the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center in concord will be celebrating the  40th anniversary of apollo 14 - the ship that brought alan shepard to the moon  - tonight at 7 pm, and throughout the day on saturday, february 5 and sunday,  february 6.
all these secondary uses come to us on newsprint as they have for hundreds  of years.
strap a giant motorized fan on your back, and your skiing will improve wired has a video of a russian guy who built a giant fan - lawnmower motor, homemade blades - that he carries on his back in order to "cross-country" ski around town.
can leaf-peeping be made scientific?
more information on this article is available athttp://newsinfo.iu.edu/news/page/normal/17183.html.
in colorado, it seems, that is already happening: according tothis article from the westerner, "colorado wildlife managers plan to mobilize hunters to thin the thickening flocks of wild âconflict turkeys' that hinder farmers and ranchers."
portland, maine's ranked-choice ("instant runoff") mayoral ballot take a look at the ranked-choice ballot in portland's 15-candidate mayor race!
it's fun to play with, and hopefully the data being collected in one spot will  help for planning down the road.
the magazine promises to keep us posted on the results.
we called her via at&t and it cost $150 - gulp!
that involved five scanners from a company called trueballot, which read all the ranked choices and uploaded them into the company's software.
their large size , huge stick nests (often on man-made structures, including light towers, channel markers and even buildings) and widespread distribution have made them familiar to many people.
new hampshire public radio has a report (you can read the transcript here).
the daily beast has a good long look at the issue: read it here.
july 26, 2011 another thing the internet has demolished: pop music charts
if you want to find out more, or become a cocorahs observer, contact stampone atmary.stampone@unh.edu.
i recently realized that i bought some homeopathic - i.e., useless - medicine.
a nuclear plant official and a regulatory attorney will be speaking at st. anselm college on tuesday night about the nuclear industry in the wake of the fukushima-daiichi accident in japan, and how the changes affect seabrook and other new england nuclear reactors.
march 24, 2011 discovery center: learning about the (real) sirens of titan
i've certainly never had any luck getting friedel to talk to me october 31, 2011 flywheel-electricity firm beacon power files for bankruptcy update on nov. 1: cnet has a more extensive followup (read it here) with this alarming tidbit: earlier this month, two of stephentown's 200-plus flywheels lost integrity > and melted into a "cotton candy-like material" hot enough to trigger an emergency water cooling system that, combined with the superheated materials inside, blew the tops off the half-buried, 3000-pound chambers, according to one local news report.
the winner will be announced at the conclusion of the event and will earn the nhhtc product of the year crystal trophy.
northern lights display possible tonight i'm flying out tonight to visit my dad, so i'll miss it, but the u-l  reports that solar activity has scientists predicting good northern lights  displays tonight (thursday night).
a quote from the driver, comparing it to rules-laden operations like nascar: "you can build and you can fabricate your own design.
imsa was only one of five selected by nasa from a field of 20 mission of opportunity proposals submitted to the agency, which will fund u.s. components for the japanese satellite.
incidentally, this description from chu's nobel autobiography will make any researcher quiver with envy.
the national science foundation's office of polar programs funds the project, primarily through its antarctic glaciology program.
i have a small list, those relatives or people that i feel a connection to.
the  whole story is in dean shalhoup's column today in the telegraph -read it here.
the telegraph has a story, with photos and a great video showing how the machine works.
in vermont, that debate has shifted in favor of big wind, which got a big boost after with the vermont electric cooperative voting more than 4-1 to build new transmission lines that are necessary for a proposed 21-turbine, 63-megawatt wind project along some three miles of lowell mountain ridgline, in the remote northeast kingdom*.check out the free-press editorial here.
the trophy and the finalist's winning product will be on display at the manchester-boston regional airport.
i couldn't find any surge in numerological weddings today, however.
(read the story here )
( scientific america article here.
and it is possible the news could be even worse in the northeast.
they also met with aneesh chopra, the federal chief technology  officer.
for more information, start here: http://cecf1.unh.edu/debris/ september 13, 2011 luring tree-eating invasive bugs with sight, not smell
since i don't even own a cellphone, i'm really not the person to mention  this, but verizon wireless starts offering the iphone today.
the station will officially be open at 11:30 for student and public use.
i pity kids now that don't have a real chance to risk life and limb.
you don't have to be a mechanical engineer to notice something a little wrong with the gear arrangement: in this configuration, none of them can move.
following the program will be a free skywatch outside with thenew hampshire astronomical society including personal telescope advice and assistance.
apparently that assessment is wrong, however: at least 50 people liked watching some of these goofballs tramping around fort knox in maine, orso reports the bangor daily news.
he passed away recently at the age of 91.
the sunday telegraph has a report (complete with video) -read it here.
a detailed new study of how life expectacy has changed in the u.s. over the period 1987-2007 shows new england, and new hampshire in particular, doing very well.
the globe has a detailed story here .
there will be mayhem.
my week-long project to have telegraph readers create and improve a new wikipedia article has ended* and the result is pretty good.
february 25, 2011 ups (as in power supply)
the theme of this year's ceremony is chemistry.
the only nearby example of alternative voting for government office is in  cambridge, mass., which uses instant-runoff voting for city elections.
i paid money for some *homeopathic* baloney!
ap has a good story about the sort of decisions customers are going to have to make about usage:read it here.
the conference is being held by one of our congressman, charlie bass, with thehead of the aircraft owners and pilots association, several other new hampshire airport folks, a representative of new hampshire fish and game, which is worried about interference with back-country rescue work, and the state's broadband director, carol miller (known to many state geeks as the former vice-president of north country internet access, way up in berlin).
there will also be a free skywatch program outside with telescope advice and help.
they also did a version called "aristotle's âthe elements'" with the same tune, although earth/air/fire/water made for a much shorter song.
the scene was gross but fascinating; nature at its most unnervingly efficient.
maybe then you'll take land conservation a little more seriously.
note that the us isn't saying we should stop adding fluoride to drinking water supplies, only that we should add less of it.
it seems that when the federal government changed daylight saving time back in 2007, new hampshire forgot that that we have a state law on the topic.
spook lots of wasps near a nesting site, then see what prey was abandoned nearby - clever.
the globe describes them as "an economist who studies racial disparities, a physicist who probes the quantum behavior of ultracold atoms, and a clinical psychologist working to better understand suicide and how to stop people from harming themselves."
pretty much every year we see news stories about how this is a particularly bad pollen season - for example,this wmur report from the weekend, which says both tree and grass pollen are arriving at the same time - but at least as far as i'm concerned, this year truly is a hum-dinger.
ranked-choice voting makes more sense when there are a lot of roughly equivalent candidates.
a handful of  scientists point to that extra heat as a possible culprit in the recent harsh  winters in europe and the united states.
a study by iso new england, the folks who run the region's power grid, says that if the vermont yankee nuclear power plant shuts next year, when its license runs out, "potential thermal overloads and voltage violations were observed in almost every area of vermont and new hampshire. ...
the doubters point to lack of hard evidence: no photos from the many automated "hunter cams" that fill the woods, no good solid footprints, no hair samples caught on barb wire fences, and no road killed big cats.
yet people have found so many new places to light that today we  spend the same proportion of our income on light as our much poorer ancestors  did in 1700, "many have come to believe that new, highly-efficient  solid-state lighting â€” generally led technology, like that  used on the displays of stereo consoles, microwaves and digital clocks  â€” will result in reduced energy consumption.
here's the globe story, which says that the company has disclosed details of the hack.
" here's their report.
so a long flight will be required to measure a number of bursts.
not too bad, but annoying.
read the article from abc (australian broadcasting co.)good for them:
multi-megawatt solar plants keep coming to mass. one of the interesting things of maintaining my alternative-power google  map has been watching the size and number of solar and wind projects grow over  time, which means i have slowly been dropping smaller projects that i had added  due to lack of alternatives (e.g., the one wind turbine at jiminy peak ski  area; the brockton brightfield solar plant in mass.).
there are two kinds of "citizen science" initiatives - those that get volunteers to sit at their computers and do stuff (e.g.,galaxyzoo, the mersenne prime project) and those that get them to go outside and do stuff, usually searching for and recording wildlife.
at unh, where the relatively new field of environmental genomics is at the core of the hcgs mission, the daphnia project resulted in productive collaborations around the university.
my column in the telegraph today is, if i may (or must) say so myself, a noble failure:
if you missed the ig nobel awards, or even if you didn't,* you can enjoy a truncated re-broadcast today onscience friday on national public radio.
they targeted 16 high risk invasive insects, including alb, eab, brown spruce longhorned beetle, and various other serious pests that are not yet known to be in maine verizon wireless lte coming to southern n.h. verizon wireless said monday that its 4g network, which they call long term evolution (lte), will come to nashua, manchester and other parts of southern new hampshire next month.
it's a really upbeat celebration of teenage geekdom overlaid with traditional sports-fan-type goofiness - a huge event, which occupies the entire ice-hocky rink and fills a third of the stands.
" september 22, 2011
may 28, 2011 thursday, celebrate 20 years of unh space grant next thursday, june 2, is new hampshire space grant day, in which members of the new hampshire space grant consortium (nhsgc) and officials from the university of new hampshire and the national aeronautics and space administration - including former astronautjeff hoffman - will celebrate the consortium's 20 years of work dedicated to improving education and public awareness of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, particularly as related to the space program.
in the telegraph newsroom, a couple of us have a tongue-in-cheek contest: any time we get a press release about a school science or math competition, we bet whether there will be any obviously white or black or hispanic names among the winners.
i can forgive bill bryson for his (and his editors) lapse in using the wrong values for a cord of wood.
the case of boston university graduate student joel tenenbaum, who shared ("stole", if you prefer) 30 songs online
even if you don't have a pool, you can enjoy the cool silhouette pattern at left, used to help id the insects you find.
for more details, check the release, which has links to technical blog.
it finally looks like a new hampshire winter - hooray!
the topic was "the future of food", featuring unh professor john carroll, organic farmer larry pletcher, and brandon miller, chef/food buyer for the common man restaurants.
the group ran the gamut in age from early-20-somethings to folks with grayer and/or less hair than me, and in opinion from :"we're doomed" to "it's no big deal."
when mary flanagan was hired at dartmouth as their first person to occupy their chair in digital humanities, i was intrigued enough to write a column in which she advocated the role of games and gaming in education.
i really like the handheld model with 8 pipette tips - it looks like a high-tech comb for an afro - which can adjust the spacing between the tips with a touch of the button.
the new hampshire statehouse has voted to end our participation in the  10-state regional greenhouse gas initiative, a cap-and-trade greenhouse gas  program for utilities.
my department head, peter eisenberger, told me to spend my first six months in the library and talk to people before deciding what to do.
the film is then heated with a milliseconds-long pulse of electricity.
startling weather for humans, but a couple days  of this would be a great way to contain the spread of some invasive tree-boring  insects that are taking advantage of our slowly warming weather.
january 29, 2011 kindle books outsell paperbacks, hardbacks at amazon.com no local angle, but one of those interesting and potentially important  milestones happened this quarter: amazon.com says it sold more kindle books  that paperbacks or hardbacks (although not both together, i don't think).it's  in this press statement.
i can do this because i have space and time.
the state has sampled 9 sites since a tritium leak was first found at vermont yankee last year.
here's the map - it's a british site so that's where most of the data is.
we were casually discussing uninterruptable power supplies when the director mentioned that he had thrown out several because the battery had died.
still, i subscribe to the  telegraph and magazines because paper is real.
i explained this because a couple of readers wrote in to say they had downloaded free books (e.g., project gutenberg) which worked fine.
"there is no indication at this point that the rosyside dace could cause recreational or economic problems; however, ecological impacts to the native fish community are possible depending on the ability of the species to expand its range and successfully propagate," said glenn normandeau, fish and game executive director.
we will soon see a day when new computers, servers, mobile devices and the so-called internet of things can only get an ipv6 address.
a normal 'ice-out' this year last year, lake winipesaukee had the earliest "ice-out" on record - by several days, in fact.
after all, more women and some children have this as part of their legal name.
the foundations slid down the eroding cliff face to their current positions on the beach."
the story is reasonably cautious, with some caveats from experts, but it still sounds interesting, since northern new england is (i believe) the region that is most dependent on heating oil.
my teenage self would be appalled
recycling filed under environment, general, software / computing  by earle at 12:33 pm one of the jobs i have down here in florida is to give advice on computer  equipment.
in addition, the mission's science operations center is headquartered at unh.
here's the science cafe nh page, which includes some "background reading" from the panelists, for more information.
boston.com has a a photo essay on cranberry-harvesting season today:check it out here.
a first robotics parody of "wizard of oz" - tonight in amherst tonight the souhegan first robotics team has its comedy night fundraiser, withthree professional comics on the school stage.
if the trash can is tiny, you think twice about throwing stuff away when staff at dartmouth college were given tiny trash cans - i've seen slurpee cups that are bigger - to handle their non-recyclable materials, they reduced the amount of stuff they sent to the landfill by 200 tons.
we can only hope to emulate those engineers, mechanics and craftsmen if the need ever arose.
interference is always an issue, and the more things become wireless, the more possible conflicts we have.
return to menu august 1, 2011 when prizes are 'rolled down', lotteries can become profitably unfair
they are also energy efficient, drawing about as much as a 75 watt incandescent lamp as opposed to 300 watts or more for compressor units.
the dwc celebration is tonight.
among the items that will be on display: the world's first pocket-sized scientific calculator (1972); wind tunnel models that helped determine the cause of the john hancock tower's window failure (1970s); mit-harvard merger petitions (1904); recordings from an (impromptu) grateful dead concert at mit (1970).
judging from the first scnh, on climate change, it will be two hours plus of intelligent, polite, informative discussion which actually leaves people more knowledgeable instead of just more angry.
i wanted to show how computer models work, so i talked to a guy who developed an economic model being distributed by fairpoint.
n.h. has seen 31 emergency-room visits this year from eating toxic 'shrooms, including 18 in september alone, compared to 11 in all of last year.
new england was a leader in demand response, and currently has enough signed up to theoretically exceed the output of seabrook station nuclear plant.
the globe has a story.
boston.com is also in the process of adding two dozen new blogs, primarily related to business, consumers, and nightlife."
members receive $2 off each person in their party according to membership level.
none of the 22 macarthur foundation "genius" grants for 2011 went to new hampshire folks, although three went to harvard scientists.
an outside observer like me is bothered by this lapse in logic only because i see it so often.
it has a calculated risk of 1 in 14,493 of a core breach.
here's the group's facebook page.
the national network of precipitation-watching volunteers called cocorahs  has compiled state-by-state data from its various volunteer observing stations  in 2010.the chart is here, if you want to ponder it.
the portland press-herald has a good article about a side industry blooming because of a $1.4 billion upgrade of central maine power's transmission system (an upgrade largely designed to handle maine's growing wind-farm production).
"no matter how much circumvention the protesters use, if the government slows the network down to a crawl, you can't upload youtube videos or facebook postings," mr. anderson said.
the globe has a story about a massachusetts inventor who claims he has made a gizmo that sprays heating oil as a mist for burning, which greatly increases the efficiency of the burn.
there's nothing like  a full moon on snow, for some reason.
i don't think so … why aren't more power lines buried?
"it's personally a major achievement," says w. kelley thomas, hubbard professor in genomics and director of the hcgs, adding that the daphnia sequence was among the center's original goals at its founding in 2001.
the state and federal governments are committed to killing lamprey by applying pesticides to rivers in the champlain basin where they spend their early years.
it's very well written with lots of interesting facts thrown in about everything from servant rules to the erie canal being the event that created new york city and american commerce.
study: rggi saved customers money, created jobs, cost power operators a study of the regional greenhouse gas initiative performed by a boston-based consulting firm with the boring name analysis group concludes that it was a winner, although that's partly because the recession dropped energy prices.
the smallest variation i could find was delaware, which reported between 111 and 125 days of precipitation
the appalachian mountain club is shutting down and evacuating its eight high huts in the white mountains this weekend, because the national forest service will close the white mountain national forest and all of its trails and campgrounds as over 6 p.m. saturday, because of fears about hurricane irene.
there was one finding "just above the lower limit of detection in one fish sample" and it's the first time the radioactive material has been found in an edible portion of any of the fish routinely sampled near the plant, said the vt. health department.
how far does a cat's sneeze travel?
voters ranked some or all of the 15 mayoral candidates by darkening an oval, and traditional optical readers counted the results, leaving a hard-copy ballot for recounts.
power sockets and plugs a little information on power sockets.
i recognized thomas edison, bill gates, steve jobs, mitch kapor, and bill hewlett and david packard, but i was stumped by bob swanson.
that hole is the richelieu river, the lake's only outlet.
here's the school's own story about it.
participants can bring their camera and test the tips.
it's a massive slab, thicker than most floors so the thermal properties cause quite a lag when i'm going to be working on my projects.
tinnitus is the almost inevitable result of abuse.
if you've never used a pipette, you haven't worked in a laboratory, at least not a life-sciences lab.
my only reservation about them is that i don't know if the spike  trapping varistors are still good.
they argue that private ventures like spacex won't ever get beyond low-earth orbit to any meaningful extent, and that china and and india will quickly reach the same conclusion as the us and russia about the cost/benefit ratio of manned flight, since they don't even have a cold war to spur them on.
this sounds like a joke but is  pretty accurate.
still, when i see the list of messages that read "you simply must read this and pass it on", my inclination to be polite gets strained.
i must admit that part of me is slightly worried about voice-over-internet from a business point of view - i'm concerned it is undermining the income which allowed a worldwide phone system (lines, switches, maintenance and installation staff) to be created in the first place.
why did northeastern do badly?
the grant came from the new hampshire innovation commercialization center, one of those public/private enterprises designed to spur job-creating innovation.
the colder the outside is, the sooner the furnace will turn on.
a significant milestone will be reached this summer with a balloon test flight of a small prototype instrument based on what was learned from comptel.
here's their blog; they call themselves the inventioneers.
the telegraph has the same issue.
amazon wants to sell e-books because of the profits from kindle, just as apple used itunes to boost sales of the ipod, and so it has an incentive to triumph electronic sales.
the fast compton telescope, or factel, will be flown to see how well it handles the radiation environment at high altitudes in order to assess its design.
this is why utilities continue to invest in very large wind turbines on windy mountain ridges even as homeowner systems languish.
even as new hampshire's mascoma prepares for a $100 million (they hope) ipo as they try to commercialize cellulosic biofuel, a firm down south says it has a way to turn wood into fuel that uses water, rather than complicated microbes, to break down those pesky cellulose walls.
still i'm amazed at how many people tell me that they've never received these coins before even though they've been out for several years.
alas, nothing's perfect.
the mht article doesn't mention that terrafugia announced a couple weeks ago that it was pushing back its roll-out schedule because it had "encountered a number of the challenges that are common in aircraft development programs, including problems with third party suppliers."
it is somewhat like an airline passenger's volunteering to be "bumped" in exchange for a free ticket.
january 21, 2011 more on those hydropower power lines
the setup is similar to thousands of cafeterias all over the world where food is served on plates placed on standard fiberglas trays.
"we're down into north carolina and tennessee and into the midwest in kentucky and indiana and ohio, and we don't seem to see any slowing down of the fungus being spread among bats in those areas.
international collaboration has been essential to this project.
is a warmer climate killing off minnesota's moose?
it's part of super stellar friday at the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center, tonight (friday, april 15) in concord.
october 24, 2011 nh aviation museum building - photo by kevin harkins photography museum gets bigger the new hampshire aviation museum is located in perhaps the coolest building of any museum around:
i have heard of farmers having some problems with turkeys invading fields in new hampshire, although not to a great extent.
mcguire and some other sponsors are associated with the free state  project or similar limited-government political ideologies, groups that tend to  be more open to non-traditional approaches to government.
the book's been a success in terms of providing a free educational resource for the ubuntu community, and i'm very proud of this achievement.
alas, there doesn't seem to be a program that will make it easy for me to learn "take the a train."
since satellites began tracking it in 1979, the ice on the arctic ocean's surface in the bellwether month of september has declined by more than 30 percent.
even-tempered, even-handed, on an even keel … that's me.
we wrote one report about these poll results last summer -pdf
attempts were made in nh last year to let parents opt out if they have "philosophical objections," but it was defeated on the floor of the house of representatives.
a wall mounted thermostat, on 3/8" plywood would again cause a lag in response.
"polarized" radiation vibrates in a preferred direction, and the extent of that polarization can provide clues to how the radiation was generated, in essence serving as a probe of the source.
later, i worked in one of the missile test bays where we tested the rockets before being launched.
folks get a little nervous when ebola moves in next door.
our librarian uses regular magnets to hold the postings and works much better than pushpins.
i have a few other tools hanging around that were too good to be thrown out quite yet that will be going into the tank soon.
i just left my car in the telegraph lot with the wipers raised, although with this fluffy snow it may not matter much.
geekdom should be outraged.
"the plants are less expensive to build, and current forward price projections favor gas over coal."
i still get a little weak in the knees thinking about how lucky i've been.
july 9, 2011 some things are truly beyond our understanding, like fans of moxie
rubik's cube team competition at museum of science
the companies say having the data allows them to provide better information about drugs to doctors, while others say it just lets them ramp up marketing regardless of health benefits.
in a follow-up to my earlier post, here's the telegraph story about concerns with plans for a national wholesale 4g wireless network that might bleed into gps signals: story is here.
it's even got a video - a video of manhole covers!
the result is a complicated fight: jobs from the bath iron works vs. jobs in fishing/tourism, with the environmental community wanting the dredging to be delayed so it does less damage to the river/bay bottom (a contention that not everybody agrees with).
the videos of the waves didn't look as scary or last as movie tsunamis do, but the water just kept coming and coming and coming, destroying anything and everything.
25th anniversary of the challenger explosion the challenger explosion is one of those events in which everybody remembers where they were when they heard about it.
i have read a few good stuff here
either that, or curse her.
telegraph photo by bob hammerstrom.
instead of forming bolts of electricity, though, the plan is that enough electrons will be collected and fed into the electrical grid.
yet people have found so many new places to light that today we spend the same proportion of our income on light as our much poorer ancestors did in 1700, "many have come to believe that new, highly-efficient solid-state lighting â generally led technology, like that used on the displays of stereo consoles, microwaves and digital clocks â will result in reduced energy consumption.
april 16, 2011 hybrid formula racing returns to n.h., thanks to dartmouth
most states (although not new hampshire or vermont) require it be worn by deer hunters* and often specify how many square inches must be visible above the waist.
even though the cards were parsed out and read every day and chain letters sent out their luck never seemed to change.
well, no - obviously.
moreover, glacial meltwater often provides the only source of water for humans and biodiversity during dry seasons.
some of these i had, the chemistry sets, glass blowing sets and a couple of others.
maine / 110 - 133 days overall, it's pretty constant except for vermont, which comes across as notably grayer and damper than its neighbors.
the sun might beat down.
help the state keep track of all those wild turkeys the state wants your help keeping track of all those wild turkeys - the birds, not the beverage - that are spreading throughout southern new hampshire.
after covering town meeting for 10 towns, i'm attuned to elections at the  moment, so let me note a paper by cornell physicists which has this summary:  "a small number of randomly selected legislators mixed with elected ones  should make parliaments more effective. ...
april 29, 2011 extreme weather: lake champlain hits all-time high water level northern vermont and new hampshire had some serious flooding this week, although nobody was killed and it pales in comparison to the extreme weather they've had in the south.
the big time lobstermen, those with hundreds of traps resented us.
the slowdown made most "circumvention" technologies â the software legerdemain that helps dissidents sneak data along the state-controlled networks â nearly useless, he said.
(at the moment the cumulative score is a whopping 19-7 in favor of the bruins, with the series tied at 3 games apiece.)
the company offers a comprehensive array of technology advisory services, telecommunications project management, and broadband design assistance.
the best large-scale news to happen in my lifetime has been the astonishing decline in humanity's birth rate, which has done much to defuse "population bomb" fears.
following the  program will be a free  skywatch outside with the new hampshire  astronomical society including personal telescope advice and assistance.
forums are dead, long live the forums
over the  course of the project, the daphnia genomics consortium has grown from a handful  of founding members to over 450 investigators distributed around the globe.
january 5, 2011 $10 million of 'torture, harassment and bodily harm' from cell towers this item ran on the lobby, a business/politics news site run by the telegraph, and i probably shouldn't reprint it because we charge subscribers money to see that service - but doggone it, i can't resist: bruce loudenslager, a goffstown resident, is suing clear channel radio stations, wmur-tv and citadel broadcasting for "torture, harassment and bodily harm from the continuous use of radio frequency and/or microwave targeting."
subscribe to the print edition, which still makes the large majority of our shrinking income.
the biggest place with public water that's noton this list is  nashua): -manchester
i think that bricks-and-mortar retailers provide enough indirect benefits to the community - notably, local jobs - that they shouldn't be penalized.
one megawatt of electricity can power approximately 1,000 homes.
it got so bad yesterday that i stuck my head inside the freezer compartment of the refrigerator - the pollen-free cold was a blessing!
part of the discussion is how google earth and gps have removed some of the mystery from maps, which is true.
his method would complicate vote-counting on election nights, particularly for communities like mont vernon and lyndeborough that count all ballots by hand, rather than by the optical ballot-reading machines used in larger communities.
*deer don't exactly see in black-and-white, but they can't distringuish among green, red, yellow and orange; it all looks like gray to them.
whoa -  who would have guessed?
" geeks don't have to be technical.
if i was the sort of person who freaked out about end times of mayan prophecies of the end of the world, all these quakes and storms would have me speaking in tongues.
there are now around 150,000 of the lumbering giants in newfoundland.
frontier will use hardwood pulpwood, which is selectively harvested, naturally regenerated, and is an underutilized, abundant resource in the area surrounding the kinross biorefinery.
it doesn't hate us, but it doesn't like us.
the story is pretty bland and doesn't have links to its many other stories or other background information, such as a map of the route - i suspect that's a result of today being monday, because there's not much staffing in offices on sunday to do that sort of thing.
could firefighters battle blazes with electricity?
may 9, 2011 skeptical inquirer editor on a remote feed at skeptics meeting, tonight granite state skeptics will have another of its "remote speaker" presentations tonight, featuring ben radford, deputy editor of skeptical inquirer magazine and author of a host of skeptic books, including " "media mythmakers: how journalists, activists, and advertisers mislead us" and "lake monster mysteries: investigating the world's most elusive creatures" (with joe nickell), a scientific examination of lake monsters around the world.
the key to the connection, the article says, is realizing that the tanker has five red "sequencing lights" under its better that fired in various orders in preparatio for the mid-air refueling with other jets.
the blaze are in the playoffs as the regular season ends.
start with color standards as part of a good, comprehensive ap story about the way foliage change is getting later (read it here)
the number of moose in northern minnesota has declined, and it's not certain why -
my sister has a nice microwave oven made by amana.
the telegraph and all the people are real and substantial.
i don't have the can since we used it all, so don't have the manufacturer but it should be easy to find if someone wants to try this.
girl scout "localvore" badge - not sure why they chose a radish (ugh) girl scouts create a "localvore" badge the name "localvore" has an annoying hipster/treehugger ring to it, but it focuses on a real trend: the increased interest in eating food that is grown relatively nearby, and grown by relatively small farms that you can get to know.
the company's website gives no explanation; this comes from an article  by crane's detroit business (article here): water is pumped in as wind blows through, forcing a mist of tiny water  droplets out pinholes in the aluminum.
portland, maine's ranked-choice ("instant runoff") mayoral ballot portland official confirms: the odd ballot didn't baffle voters, after all voting day in portland, maine's 11 precincts (including one on an island - cool!) went smoothly despite predictions from scaredycats like me that the instant-runoff ballot for mayor would baffle voters who had never had to rank 15 candidates in a single race before.
"we told poll workers to call us and give us feedback if you get negative response (from voters), but we didn't hear any," nicole clegg, the city's communications director, told me in an interview this morning.
become a sunbelt snowbird when i retire?
i've got around 20" on the ground  now.
i quoted storefront travel agents saying that sort of thing in the 1990s, and it didn't seem to help them much.
i thought the active ingredient (grindella robusta) was listed at 3%, a perfectly reasonable amount in medication … but it's actually 3x, which is homeo-nonesense for diluted 10^4 (i think) times.
february 8, 2011 dec cofounder ken olsen dies two events created modern nashua/southern new hampshire: one was the 1952  arrival ofsanders associates, a defense electronics firm, into the empty mills  left by the collapse of the textile industry, and the other was the early 1970s  arrival of digital equipment corp., expanding up from massachusetts.
other alternative voting schemes also allow voters to cast ballots  for multiple candidates per seat, but are more complicated than traditional  voting.
this is sometimes called "instant runoff" for that reason.
i wrote about it recentlyin my column, but figured i'd give it another prod here, because the deadline is in a few weeks.
mr. mastro theorizes that the bugs link the color to the purplish hue that can be seen on the inner bark of ash trees.
i know: where did humans evolve?
it sounds like a steampunk novel plot, but it's real.
the compacted snow contains dust, chemicals and atmospheric gases, which are trapped in the ice and are indicators of past climate.
nh biofuel startup hopes for $100 million from an ipo mascoma corp. of lebanon, which has been trying to tweak bacteria to develop a one-step way to turn cellulose into ethanol, plans to go public and hopes to raise as much as $100 million.
that's cool, certainly, but it was also confining, which is why it's good news that the airport has expanded and is now open seven days a week.
a single and  passive input to our senses.
the proportion of working-age people to children or, increasingly, of retirement-age people to children is going to soar, but the total number of kids running around may be at its maximum today.
the weird spasm of opposition to the change, advocating 19th-century technology as a good idea for 21st-century america, seems to have faded, thankfully.
november's cafe will be about biomass power - the promise and realities of burning wood for electricity and/or heat.
the rest would  spill onto the ground, stinking up the joint and polluting the groundwater.
so it's appropriate that the annals will host of evening of songs from lehrer and some ig nobel prize mini operas.
mascoma got a lot of attention a  couple of years ago but has been bypassed by bigger, higher-profile efforts  recently.
june 2, 2011 mass. flywheel energy company is ready to hit the big time beacon power of tyngsborough, mass., is preparing to unveil its 20-mw energy storage plant in stephentown, n.y.
they are round doughnuts about three inches in diameter.
i was pretty intense about learning this stuff.
this was printed in the 1960's.
as reported in the union-leader today, he missed the triple-century by just 900 miles, for a very dramatic reason: the car burst into flame on the road.
a first robotics parody of "wizard of oz" - tonight in amherst tonight the souhegan first robotics team has its comedy night fundraiser,  withthree professional comics on the school stage.
you can turn on/off categories like xdsl (symmetiric or asymmetric, you choose), cable-modems (docsis 3.0 or other), fiber-to-the-home, and various fixed wireless options.
it ripped the bird feeder off our porch*, bending the supporting metal rod and tore up some of last year's beehive frames that were stacked in the barn, crunching on the wax and dried bits of honey, breaking a few in the process.
march 14, 2011 not much snow, lots of water i have roughly 7 inches of snow left in my yard (depending on where you measure, there are bald patches and foot-deep spots) which isn't much.
a reader points out that i overstated the impossiblity of tsunamis on the east coast;check here for a report, which lists them as "rare but possible.
hence they tend to be big superhighway projects, with  just a couple of "off-ramps.") february 10, 2011 any rap with "sohcahtoa" in it is ok by me
ken olsen's legacy - nobody has quite matched it still, the massachusetts high-tech sector has never fully recovered from the collapse of digital and the state's other leading computer companies.
they can't be tested with what i have here, so protection isn't complete.
i say this because i have been deluded.
that was my real education.
carrier-grade nat (cgn, also known as large-scale nat)
multi-megawatt solar plants keep coming to mass. one of the interesting things of maintaining my alternative-power google map has been watching the size and number of solar and wind projects grow over time, which means i have slowly been dropping smaller projects that i had added due to lack of alternatives (e.g., the one wind turbine at jiminy peak ski area; the brockton brightfield solar plant in mass.).
the drum spins at an impressive 3,000 rpm, generating a magnetic field of  such strength that it instantly creates an opposing field in even the most  crumpled of moxie cans, sending them flying off the adjacent conveyor belt into  sorting bins.
reading the paper, holding it in my hands involves more than just reading.
he said he expected to  bring brine to central vermont next year.
mcguire admits to one drawback.
despite their amazing usefulness, there has been next to no research regarding the response of wildlife to the technology itself (which often assumed to be negligible or non-existent)!
there are even wireless interactive sets so that, say, a high school band director can make changes to sheet music and have it show up automatically for everybody in class.
(i didn't have a camera, so i've attached a wikipedia photo.)
april 2, 2011 the best april fool's day joke for geeks: scientific american gives up it's a 2005 joke (that's why i waited until april 2 to mention it)
the knight science journalism tracker pointed me to an interesting story:
the best information compilation i've seen in quite a while on sunscreen confusion is posted on the information is beautiful website.
storing electric heat in maine homes is an interesting option tux turkel in the portland press-herald has a good story about a pilot program by the town-owned utility in madison, maine, to test "electric thermal storage heaters" that store electric heating when rates are lower.
my wife, the veterinarian, recommends that people with outdoor pets use tick prevention all year long; most clients assume she's just trying to get more money out of them, but it's a legitimate problem particularly as our winters warm up.
verizon iphone is a great move, or a lousy one verizon wireless is expected to announce today or possibly later this week will start handling iphones in february.
that means you, granite geek reader!
from the story: creating simple lines of communication outside official ones is crucial, said collin anderson, a 26-year-old liberation-technology researcher from north dakota who specializes in iran, where the government all but shut down the internet during protests in 2009.
i gave him $50, because i thought the idea is cool, but he needs another $1,372.
i didn't have room to get into detail about how nuke plants work and what's happening in japan.
it looks like the union-leader will have a story about him in the sunday paper,judging from this teaser.
consider the 51-kilowatt photovoltaic system that psnh installed on its manchester headquarters.
not much detail in the story, but it  sounds optimistic.
it takes 1:29, and shows the staggering size of the storm - no wonder it pulled so much moisture from the ocean that ended up being dumped inland.
they're the only two n.h. institutions in a list of the 30 places which got the most nsf money in 2010.
researchers initiated a study using a variety of red and purple traps to determine which trap attracted the most beetles; the purple trap achieved the best results."
it used to be that seeing a wild turkey was like seeing a bobcat - you'd stop the car and scream in excitement.
its genome, however, remained elusive, limiting understanding of how the  environment and genes interact.
i want to make the movie about how twinkies are actually larval form of creatures from episoln vii which have to pupate for 82 years before the creamy filling turns into a godzilla-like demonic beast … and since twinkies were "invented" (that's what they want us to think) in 1930, this is the year that a sample from the first batch will come to life!!!!
" the item says the u.s. department of transportation estimates that "about 5 percent of u.s. motor vehicle collisions, or between 1 and 2 million crashes per year, involve animals.
i've always used lap and shoulder belts without fail, going as far as to install them in my first cars that didn't come with them.
none of this interactive-exhibit nonsense for them, thank you very much.
this opens up all sorts  of opportunities for cheap robots and little machines.
the species had been wiped out of the state ("extirpated" is, i believe, the term) by hunting until a small population was brought from new york state to the keene area, in the late 1970s.
the network operates on the 700 mhz spectrum, access to which verizon wireless bought from the feds after it was freed by switching tv broadcasters from analog to digital.
nobody makes new ones, so the city is switching to the national standard.
as a side note, i love the description of incandescent bulbs here: "incandescent lights are basically electric space heaters that give off light as a byproduct.
mcguire, a republican, liked the gop candidate, john stephen, but he  liked the libertarian candidate, john babiarz, even more.
voters need not rank all the candidates, but that would reduce their say if the runoff process continues for more than a round or two.
from the police press release: initial on-scene investigation revealed that each carriage was being drawn by two (2) horses and each carriage was traveling in an opposite direction when it appears that a portion of one of the carriages malfunctioned.
â things such as remote equipment relaying status updates to a home office and truck fleets transmitting location and condition reports."
who says math class is boring?
august 22, 2011 triangular manhole covers in nashua - geometry underfoot!
november 9, 2011 no easy winner in portland's instant-runoff election, which enters the mathematical "instant runoff" portland's race for mayor using ranked-choice ballots did not produce a winner last night - that is, nobody was 1st choice for a majority of voters - so poll workers are going through the process of testing lower choices.
the event is sold out, alas, but will be live webcast at http://www.youtube.com/improbableresearch andhttp://improbable.com/ig/2011/. this will be the 21th first annual ig nobel prize ceremony.
no fungicides are being recommended to control the spread of the diseases, ostrofsky said.
the global warming debate gets people even madder than the atomic power debate it sounds like a weird geeky joke: what did the plastics engineer say to the physics professor after the contentious debate about atomic power?
a wind farm with mount washington in the background the telegraph got the above photo submitted in the mail, one of several aerial pictures of wind turbines being installed in and near the tiny town by dummer, mass.
one volunteer on the eastern shore of maryland reported 11.34 inches of rain in a 24-hour period up through this morning.
his number: at least $3 billion, maybe 15 times as much.
today, william f. nye, inc., obtains blackfish head oil produced as a byproduct of larger commercial whale-harvesting enterprises in canada and the west indies.
hey, i lived through that history, of course i know it!
here is a discussion from phil plait of bad  astronomy fame.
creating a wikipedia article to celebrate the 10th anniversary
the vast majority of the website content also appears in print.
still, it's pretty cool.
be there or be ... well, less knowledgeable.
specifically with regard to fish and  wildlife, the new hampshire fish and game department administrative rules  control the possession and importation, and prohibit the release of,  non-indigenous or non-naturalized fish species to new hampshire waters.
dedman's report (you can read it here) points out that the odds of a breach has increased for most power plants because new research has raised the likelihood of earthquakes throughout the country - although it's still very low in new england.
earle rich mont vernon, nh soon to be back home april 06, 2011 should online retailers have to pay state sales tax?
the company was selected as a broadband properties top 100 company in 2008, 2009 and 2010.
the bangor daily news has the story.
i have three sets of hearing protection headsets in the shop, always within easy reach whenever i turn on a power tool.
this study, funded by several non-profits, seems to belie that.
you can read my article here or be a lazy news-aggregation-reader and be happy with this paragraph, concerning two of the editors (one from texas, one from nashua) who i interviewed: in the process, they gave a demonstration of the way one of the internet's weirdest creations â "the encyclopedia that anyone can edit" â has grown to become a gigantic source of often valuable information, despite the fact that all the work is done by a few thousand disorganized volunteers who are scattered around the globe and come and go at will.
you can read the whole announcement, and admire the clipart of a tombstone,  here.
and some parents in this country refuse to have their  children inoculated, citing safety fears that most specialists regard as  unfounded.
january 13, 2011 'call of duty' gamers hacked medical server to get some free bandwidth the union-leader has a today (read it here) about scandinavian players of "call of duty: black ops" who swiped bandwidth from seacoast radiology, in the process getting access to the personal information of more than 230,000 patients.
(no power is easier in august than during an ice storm, when freezing pipes is a worry.
the area has not one but two teams playing in the u.s. chess league,as i noted recently, so you can stop your sobbing and start cheering.
they've gone one better, however, with american chunker, a massive air cannon that shoots 8-pound pumpkins almost a mile.
the forage fish, which include species such as herring, exploded after cod stocks plummeted.
it found statistically significant increases in childhood luekemia within a certain distance of power lines - although the disease is still very rare - but cautioned that the numbers were so small that you shouldn't take the results seriously, partly because there's no way known to science that the lines could be causing leukemia.
however, if we do have any cougars, they're not eastern cougars, because that species is now officially extinct.
ny times story here.
electronic pickpocketing http://www.wreg.com/wreg-electronic-pickpocketing-story,0,6289527.story it doesn't take much of an investment for the dark side of society to steal information from our credit cards.
i spotted this via slashdot, of all place - which drew some excellent reader comments, including this one: a horse is a self-replicating semi-autonomous rover optimized for negotiating tough terrain, and it was developed without darpa assistance.
i have a bucket full of microswitches, so i don't collect those any more.
the equivalent is 117 mpg.
one is that it led to the end of a homemade isp - a guy paid for a t1 line to his home and stuck a wifi-ish antenna on the tower he had for his ham radio, selling service to 16 people; "the biggest problem was occasionally having to chastise somebody who hogged the bandwidth with excessive peer-to-peer-network use.
heres the press-herald story.
* but they're not the only ones mad at amazon.
new hampshire figh & game says more than 400 returning adult salmon were captured at the lawrence, mass., fishway in 2011 - topping the modern-day record of 332 returning salmon in 1991.
even if he drove 60 mph the whole time, that's 33 days - more than a solid month - of sitting in your car every single year.
at least they still have netflix envelopes to deliver!
stephen abodeely, right, and mariah shrey look on as her husband, adam uses a laser to design a pumpkin at make it labs thursday, october 27, 2011, in nashua.
so the circle is roughly twice the area of the triangle; there's a bit of lip overlap that complicates the calculation, hence my fudging.
discovery center: 'astro-photography 101â€² taking pictures of the night sky is harder than it sounds, and few of us  will ever be able to take photos like a mind-boggling shot of the iss in front  of the sun during a solar eclipse (check it here).
at approximately 18 miles, it's the shortest ocean coastline of any coastal state … unless you count tidal flats, which would bring the great bay into the equation and bump us up past pennsylvania.
somehow that had never occurred to him that a $50.00 ups could be fixed  with a $17.00 battery.
new hampshire has a different daylight saving time than the rest of the  country apparently having the first-in-the-nation political primary isn't enough  for new hampshire: we want to have the first-in-the-nation daylight saving  time, too.
it turns out that our good friends at mythbusters have examined thi myth (although on the ground, not on ice).
presumably the cruise line hadn't factored all local depths during such "astronomical low tides" when calculating departure times.
they are great for tolls and restaurent tips.
great picture with the telegraph's story today about people taking refuge from the widespread power outage at hotels, shops, etc. - it shows a bunch of people on the floor of barnes & noble, fixated on their laptops.
instead of attacking the rust with sandpaper and steel wool, i'm using an electrolytic method that actually converts the rust back to iron.
http://www.economist.com/node/18745371?story_id=18745371 return to menu june 1, 2011 is it safe (contacting-bacteria-from-teens-wise) to shake hands at graduation?
but they have a long history of cost overrides and pollution (trash is a real mixed bag of a fuel and it's hard to eliminate all the unpleasant byproducts).
you can read the piece here.
… it is not too much of a task on the imagination to believe that women will have taken a much more important position in the business and political life than they hold today.
they caution that lots of snow doesn't mean lots of moisture: the winter storms brought more snow, but less rain to much of the united states said the national climatic data center.
as the state public utilities commission notes, natural gas is a big and growing player: "gas-fired electric generation in new england accounted for less than 1% of its electric supply in 1980; however, today it accounts for over 41% and is expected to increase to 49% by 2010.
localvore-ism is truly becoming part of the mainstream - maybe not as mainstream as cheetos and mcdonald's, but no longer a weirdo fringe activity.
the telegraph's article includes a  pdf of mcauliffe's original application to the teacher in space program (here).
so, people buckle up just to keep the damned thing silent.
the unh research is based on a unique modeling method pioneered by xiao, and will make use of very large sets of ecological data only recently available from study sites across north america.
part of twickler's job is to divvy up the precious ice samples depending on specific researcher's investigations.
at unh, where the relatively new field of environmental genomics is at the  core of the hcgs mission, the daphnia project resulted in productive  collaborations around the university.
you have to admire mother nature sometimes.
each gets a five-year $500,000 award, no strings attached, and the knowledge of how they will be described on first reference in all news stories for the rest of their lives.
clear brooks and rivers are clear because they don't contain much in the way of the nutrients that algae needs to grow, particularly phosphorus.
why do pollsters do this?
the wais divide  project, for which the university of new hampshire provides science  coordination, is investigating the last 100,000 years of earth's climate  history.
next month's science cafe new hampshire is about vaccines, and one of the panelists is jose montero, the state epidemiologist and a cool guy.
(why would a drug company do that?
the authors were trying to make a point of how it was amazing that any kids survived the contact with stuff that could maim and kill.
the investment isn't terribly surprising, since sustainx is a partner in ge's ecomagination challenge, a high-profile program that ge has used a way to find r&d start-ups that might feed into its business.
"this approach is very different from traditional ecosystem models, which are built upon a lot of complex, underlying ecosystem processes," xiao explains.
they can't be tested with what i have here,  so protection isn't complete.
unh magazine, by coincidence, has a big story about this just out.
after some verification, it started crunching numbers, eliminating the lowest-taylling candidates one by one, until a winner was announced about 8:30 p.m. wednesday.
the bdn staff is working as quickly as possible to fully  restore the site.
he agreed with one questioner that polls are biased, but not in the way we think.
as if on cue, last night my wife found a tick crawling on her laptop computer!
cape cod's "arm" is slowly rotating, and climate change is speeding it up the cape code times has a fine article about what erosion is doing to cape code's shape, and how the increase in strong storms and rise in sea level associated with a warming planet is accelerating that erosion.
mpc says skipping some homes would undermine the whole point of a smart grid.
the ratcheting down of newspapers across the nation makes me uneasy.
the ship, the two brothers, was captained by the man who previously led the essex, the ship sunk by a sperm whale - a story that inspired herman meville to write "moby-dick."
exploding rockets never showed up on the front page of pravda, it seems.
it also would hook into both the new england and long island grids, providing one of the extra connections that the national grid badly needs.
or, a downstairs  refrigerator might come on, and the electric motor inside might make just  enough of a spark to start the whole place burning.
did you know you can buy new batteries for a fraction of the price of a  new ups?
millisecond power pulses make for a super de-icer dartmouth engineering professor has developed a de-icing system called pulse electro-thermal de-icing that sounds great: petd uses a thin, electrically-conductive film applied to the surface of, for example, an airplane or a windshield or almost any other object in need of ice protection.
of course, and not really you may have stumbled across some discussion/news lately saying that  "scientists" have realized that the signs of the zodiac are  "wrong" - discussions likethis one at salon, which starts out  "yesterday i was a leo.
participants  can bring their camera and test  the tips.
in wandering through news websites i found a story from the burlington free-press discussing vermont practices.
"while the origin of this species in new hampshire is uncertain, it seems likely to have been introduced by human intervention," said david neils, des biologist.
â â â â mont vernon, nh august 19, 2011 lobstering my grandfather
you should watch it, since it's entertaining, but for impatient folks here's the ending: if the earth was the size of a basketball the moon would be the size of a tennis ball, and it would be 24 feet away.
*a development in san francisco has triangular covers to its water valves, as shownin this photo, but that's not quite the same thing.
the discovery was made in summer 2010 by des  biologists during routine biological monitoring activities.
the telegraph's connection also puts out.
the multi-institution project also involves scientists from the university of alaska, fairbanks and ohio state university who will, respectively, run glacier mass balance models to determine how all this ice will change under different climate scenarios, and improve estimates of all the global mountain glaciers by means of "remotely sensed" satellite maps.
nobel laureate tells all about rna today at st. anselm college craig mello, 2006 winner of the nobel prize for physiology and medicine, will give a talk today (wednesday, april 27) at st. anselm college in manchester that's titled "rnai: from mystery to mechanism, or how a worm won six nobel prizes."
the wheels (carbon-fiber composite rim supported by a metal hub) spin at between 8,000 and 16,000 rpm - at the latter, the flywheel can store and deliver 25 kwh of extractable energy very quickly.
the upcoming grape flight will also serve as an engineering test for two other unh experiments that will piggyback a ride on the balloon.
has made it to the federal appeal level.
they obviously want you to buy a copy instead of reading for free … i sympathize!
macleod has studied ospreys for more than 30 years and has monitored the growing nesting population in the nh lakes region since 1997.
this same approach has been taken for a variety of aquatic invasive weeds, and to be perfectly honest it hasn't worked all that well.
it concludes with what might be considered the geek motto: "for a successful technology, reality must take precedence over public relations, for nature cannot be fooled."
next, they factor in the day of the week, the time of year, even the previous day's weather.
i have this vision of a trial before the north american society of homeopaths in which upholders of the faith shout in outrage that tecnu's medication actually performs some medical service, going against all the tenents of homepathy!
he argue, quite reasonably, that this means we should be doing more to fight white nose syndrome as it moves west, devastating entire populations.
but there is help at hand at the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center on friday, during its weekly super stellar friday event.
we talk about coal a lot in new hampshire, thanks to the 460-mw merrimack  station plant in bow, but the granite ridge natural gas plant in londonderry  (owned by energy giant aes) is actually bigger (750 mw).
"it refers to letting people vote fairly, and to having correct proportional representation," said dan mcguire, a republican state legislator from epsom.
but the total population continues to soar because there are so many of us having babies, even though we're having fewer babies each - the un now estimates it will peak at 10.1 billion, which means adding a couple more chinas to the world.
those orange-spined paperbacks look so cool, and i was quite the literary anglophile, which sent me to the british publishing house.
it has been found in massachusetts, too.
the sugar myth * irrational stock market * mathemagics the presenters come from around the region, many involved with granite state skeptics, the loosely organized group which is hosting the event.
the regional economy gains more than $1.6 billion in economic value added (reflecting the difference between total revenues in the overall economy, less the cost to produce goods and services)
vermont is the only state which must give the ok for relicensing of nuclear plants within its borders; for everybody else, only the federal government needs to say ok.
they simply have to pass on the joy to everyone on their email list.
the latter brought us firmly into the route 128 technology-industry camp and set us on a path that we're still following.
it also has a separate electric grid, as a result of historical accidents.
by using special bacteria to "scrub" any phosphorus off the bottom of the creeks, condensing it with iron in a way that increases the biological availability of phosphorus, making the nutrient available to didymo even though they're inaccessible to most other living things.
they are sodium-cooled and have enough passive cooling that if they lose power they still don't overheat.
(i may not say "hooray" when i go to get the car out of the driveway, however) ham radio at mcauliffe center (how's your morse code?)
even after reading, the paper has more uses.
time to pull out the super-8 camera and make that home movie you've always dreamed of; submissions are due by jan. 10.
" hmmm ... perhaps my incandescent scorn was misguided?
i missed october and part of november, so it's incomplete, but i had 47.29 inches of water falling from the sky, including 62.5 inches of snow (which melted down to about 6-7 inches of water).
âflying car' gets another broost from the feds terrafugia, the massachusetts folks trying to create a "roadable aircraft" - a.k.a.
and four airports in maine are among the small airports around the country where carriers get a federal subsidy to keep commercial service going.
the huygens probe from nasa's cassini mission parachuted down to the surface of haze-shrouded titan six years ago, transmitting images and data that scientists are still working with today.
but we always answer, echoing the utility, "it's too complicated to say exactly."
apparently, people haulting sticks in their trunks or the back of their rv is a major vector for insect movement in this country.
department of innovation logo (check the gears!)
the same is true for older adults who acquired natural immunity by being exposed to the disease when it was prevalent.
may the best bean flinger win!
i learned from prevous problems to work harder at melting the snow - i put it in the still-warm
yesterday, the texas grid used a staggering 65,443 megawatts of electricity.
the ny times has a good article (read it here) today on how those traps, so different from most phermone-using insect traps, were developed.
in addition to measuring what the atmospheric concentrations of carbon  dioxide, methane, and other gases were in the past, the research team can also  determine what the surface air temperature was in the past by studying changes  in the isotopic composition of the water that makes up the ice.
popular science and popular mechanics were very good, having regular columns on chemistry and other technical subjects.
for more information, contact david neils, des senior biologist, at (603) 271-8865 or david.neils@des.nh.gov .
(the power-point presentation is here.
these are occasionally used in circumstances such as electing boards to professional organizations or other organizations â a variant of approval voting was used to elect the pope for several centuries, for example â
but it is interesting, and i suspect the folks at unh's interoperability lab, which have spent years testing and certifying devices and systems for ipv6 compatibility, could explain it better.
(check outthis great animation of lehrer's "the elements" song.)
he travels to amish country in the midwest at least once a year to appraise new equipment and buy a horse, if one catches his eyeâas fred did one year while desmarais was in indiana.
they require voters to do such things as list the candidates in order of preference or give each one a varied score.
so far, between web comments,  email and phone calls, reader reaction is 5-to-1 in favor of the idea.
i'd have liked them just as much in 1997, when michael robertson pioneered the idea of a service to stream your own music.
other standards will kick in by 2017.
high-altitude balloons, with a volume of up to 30 million cubic feet (large enough to contain a football field) have been used to carry nasa experiments to the edge of space for more than 50 years.
the recent habit of big storms traveling  south of nh is getting to be annoying.
professors don't take kindly to being interrupted, so the physicist got mad in return.
there are three interesting events in new hampshire next week for folks who like to think about and discuss important issues based on facts, instead of just rant about soundbites.
he'll argue that journeys to nearby stars are feasible with round trip times that are shorter than a person's life span - presumably via time distortion, which is sort of cheating (it's only shorter than the riders' life spans, not the stay-at-homes').
i've even written articles about it for the telegraph, but do i listen to myself?
more importantly, though, is that they'll be preceded by a short skit put  on by the team, involving a sort-of-but-not-really musical parody of  "wizard of oz".
some new hampshire legislators wanted to study a variant of that procedure for our state, but that idea was shelved by lawmakers.
legos that solves rubik's cubes using the legos mindstorms computer platform:it's here.
read the article here, then go gaze at your odometer.
i interviewed easton last year, when he was admitted to the national inventors hall of fame.
"if the election were held tomorrow, who would you vote for?" polls, which are the bulk of primary polls at the moment, are largely ignored by the pros, he said.
it's supposed to rain and be above 40 degrees all day, so the snow should get super-saturated.
they'll "pitch" two similar foods (probably different-colored jell-o) with big pictures.
the lines would bring  1,200 megawatts of power down from large quebec hydropower dams, roughly  equivalent to the power output of seabrook nuclear plant.
even a coal-fired-power-plant-powered electric car is good nothing local this morning, so i'll link to this story, which discusses a  swiss life-cycle analysis of electric and gas-powered cars.
while the site is being restored, online readers will notice  changes to the display of the site and will be unable to access some features  and archived articles.
"tanks can only support so only many organisms.
by coincidence, yesterday was the 34th 44th anniversary of the only  comparable american space disaster:the fire that killed three astronauts  training for the first apollo mission.
as part of it, we ran an old black-and-white  photo from the mos showing little kids looking at an earlier generation of star  projectors.
after covering town meeting for 10 towns, i'm attuned to elections at the moment, so let me note a paper by cornell physicists which has this summary: "a small number of randomly selected legislators mixed with elected ones should make parliaments more effective. ...
photo by boston university ultra-ex project boston's weekly carbon-emissions pattern: weekends are quiet
the telegraph has a profile of blue2green, an ashland nh start-up that wants to retrofit existing dams to create small-scale hydropower.
for a certain segment of society, it just might be betty and barney hill's reported interaction with a ufo on route 3 near lincoln, which occurred 50 years ago tonight, and launched the whole "alien abduction" craze.
since i don't even own a cellphone, i'm really not the person to mention this, but verizon wireless starts offering the iphone today.
it's sweet when you catch someone else in a gross error in math.
i don't know what algorithm they used to flag that purchase - the card is used largely for buying groceries and gas, so it stood out - but well done to its programmers.
(below that, the layers become too compressed to allow annual layers to be resolved.)
for more on the shower, including where to look (southeast, before dawn), check nasa's page here.
(below that, the layers become too compressed to allow  annual layers to be resolved.)
here's a new scientist story.
the advantages are obvious - "no moving parts" is a goal to which all engineers aspire.
january 26, 2011 n.h. kids' steering wheel sensors detect distracted driving some home-schooled teens in londonderry have gotten federal attention from  an invention that would put sensors on steering wheels to detect when drivers  have removed their hands for too long - a sign that they may be texting,  combing their mustache, eating burritos, or otherwise distracted from save  driving.
hauling buckets of water from the rain barrel to flush the toilet gets old fast.)
the times quotes this from a research paper: consider what's happened with lighting over the past three centuries.
in other words, yes, sales tax should apply to online sales.
the units do seem to be wildly superior to traditional heat pumps when they're working - but a major customer that used them on a new jersey air force base says they fail a third of the time.
this wasn't really a surprise.
each state has dozens of stations (including me, although i only started in december) but most of us miss the occasional day.
precipitation measuring - it's not for the faint of heart!
but this is still the time of year when how to handle  ice on roads is big on our winds.
the most effective proved to be manuka oil, an extract from a tree that has been used by maori tribesmen in new zealand to treat certain illnesses.
here's a small but intriguing example: propublica and the ny times are selling  long-form journalism as part of amazon's "short book" program (5,000  to 30,000 words or so).this column, by former telegraph staffer damon kiesow,  explains it - although he gets his wrist slapped with a pica pole for using the  word "monetize" (ugh).
it's weirdly fascinating, but i realized as i wanted through room after room that it's also a brilliant counter-example to noah's ark literalists.
"this gives voters more options ... to reflect how they feel about all the candidates," mcguire said.
as i noted in an april story (read it here)
may 27, 2011 gop presidential hopefuls have to reject global warming to be viable tuesday's science cafe discussion about climate change avoided the deadly taint of political discussion, which i also try to avoid here in granite geek, but just in case you thought that weather extremes were moderating anti-global warming extremes, and ap story reminds us that republican presidential hopefuls must be climate change deniers to make it through the party primary: republican presidential hopefuls can believe in man-made global warming as long as they never talk about it, and oppose all the so-called solutions," said marc morano, a former aide to oklahoma sen. james inhofe, one of the most vocal climate skeptics in congress read it here.
the report says fws must "manage cave access to minimize risk" and "investigate bat-to-bat transmission" but makes no immediate recommendations for action about caves.
earle rich    mont vernon, nh january 19, 2011
"we now have a resource for everybody who's interested in strawberry genetics.
(they are also popular with hunters, who use them to figure out game patterns before hunting season starts.)
lthough, come to think of it, maybe excess greenhouse gas changes the likelihood of pyramidilly-terminated hexagonal prism crystals ... in which case, climate changewould be the cause!
it found that the decade of the 2000s had by far the most "abnormal" years: "between 2001 and 2010, eight of the 10 years had precipitation levels outside the normal range.
november 7, 2011 wind farm law in little antrim generates big debate
the usual excuse is, "my hearing is already poor, so what's the use?"
that puts into doubt a complicated system of fcc-required payments between phone carriers, who reimburse each other via "access charges" as calls move to and from one another's lines.
i don't even turn them.
hock will use climate projections such as temperatures and precipitation amounts from ipcc data in glacier mass balance models on all of the individual mountain glaciers identified for the study.
featured exhibits will include the discovery center's  moon rock exhibit, lunar crafts, and lunar lander simulator where visitors can  try touching down on the lunar surface.
the ice is then cut into  smaller samples and sent to 27 investigators around the u.s. who make the  measurements.
the globe has a story about how hackers swiped information about a bunch of secureid tokens, used to gain tempoerary access to secure computer networks, from rsa security in hopkinton, mass.
" the bomb was desdcribed as "rudimentary" - one advantage of being targeted by luddites, i guess - although one professor was slightly injured.
like a ghost who has no real affect on our physical being, only a suggestion of meaning that once seen, remains to us as only a memory of visual content.
i wrote about how new hampshire needs to face this very issue in the telegraph this week:report warns of health-care costs with elderly.
(that is 10 to 15 times the photovoltaic output of every panel in new hampshire.)
there's nothing local going on because the latest snowstorm has shut down  everything, so take note of this fascinating item, spotted inthis ny times
i have written about mountain lions and local lack thereof a few times, most recently after the subspecies eastern mountain lion was declared officially extinct (read it here).
here's the website of the museum.
you can read or download the conservation guide here.
if this sounds interesting, consider becoming a volunteer for cocorahs.
you think i'm kidding around?
february 16, 2011 cape cod erosion reveals marconi's original broadcast towers the foundations of the marconi radio towers on cape code  â€“ four 210-foot wooden towers used to broadcast the first  wireless trans-atlantic message, which went from teddy roosevelt to king edward  on jan. 18, 1903 - were revealed by beach erosion caused by a big storm,  reports climatetide.
i wouldn't want to be a poll worker in portland, maine, today, as voters face their first ranked-choice ballot, which asks them to rank their preferences for the 15 candidates for mayor.
i look forward to her "fractal fandango", or perhaps a "linear  algebra liturgy" if she gets her degree in the subject.
lotteries never have better-than-1 payouts, because then they'd lose money - except in unusual circumstances, usually involving a contest of limited duration and set number of tickets, in which prizes are "rolled over" if they're not won early.
most digs, but not all: there have always been hints of pre-clovis people here and there, which is why the arguing has gone on.
who says geeky stuff doesn't draw responses?
you can check out an interactive map here; here's a washington post story about it.
the control boards go into the electronics recycling box.
so unfortunately i didn't find it very useful.
there was a big psychic fair scheduled for this saturday at the radisson  hotel in nashua - a fake-castle affair that is quite noticeable to people  driving up the interstate from massachusetts.
new mexico experienced its driest january on record.
not much detail in the story, but it sounds optimistic.
a thought: replace "black friday" with "make something day" the maker community - that cheerfully pushy mix of do-it-yourselfers, hackers, and lovers of dangerous tools - has a suggestion: instead of rushing out to buy something on black friday (the day after thanksgiving, when retailers traditionally entered the black financially for the year), why not try to make something?like this: "anti-consumerism supporters" have been pushing for years for black friday to become "buy nothing day".
air conditioning & texas drought = twice new england's electricity usage air conditioning has become the biggest power draw in the u.s., overall; even here in new england, the peak usage occurs in summer, not winter (partly because we've switched from electric heat to oil).
turns out, they have, and the arrival of tablet pcs/ipads may finally bring it to the masses.
when one of these came in, copies were made and sent out.
i have a story in the sunday telegraph about nashua's unique (so far as i can tell) triangular manhole covers, which are slowly being replaced because they're not big enough to meet modern safety requirements.
i expect much complaining.
"it's definitely a stressor â
make magazine is full of great hands-on learning experiments.
liu's unique contribution to this effort was to independently  document the locations of specific sequences called ribosomal gene clusters on  the chromosomes themselves, using an advanced microscopic technique known as  fluorescent in situ hybridization.
fred is 14, and he's been laying line for five years.
if you really want to write a book, get signed to a publisher.
from a ny times story: the process developed by renmatix involves putting hardwoods into a small pressurized chamber.
researchers are trying to pin down more of the connection between the north atlantic oscillation, which you might consider the north atlantic's version of el nino/la nina, and big snow events.
you have to sit through an ad when it first comes on.
it will be the subject of a  hearing tuesday.
digital automation would have rerouted power or corrected a problem before an outage occurs meaning fewer customers would have seen outages, and thousands of customers may have never experienced an outage.
a trebuchet-building contest - and it's at an armory museum thanks to the success of yankee siege, the enormous trebuchet that dominated the world punkinchunkin contest for five years, new hampshire has a special relationship with these siege engines of yore.
it's well worth reading: here it is.
i've paid money for a placebo!
as explained by the press-herald, the election in maine will work like this: voters will mark their ballots not only for the candidate they'd like to see win, but also rank the rest in order of preference.
oddly, it estimated that rhode island had the lowest wireless-only percentage; i say oddly because it's a flat, urban area, which seems ideal for good cell phone coverage.
astrologers and psychics and mediums can't predict the future!
xiao is the project's principal investigator and a research assistant professor in the eos complex systems research center (csrc).
" here's the story, although since it's the weekend maybe you want to skip it until monday.
from the burlington free-press: mudpuppies share the river bottom with larval sea lampreys, perhaps vermont's least popular species.
he then compares several statistical properties, which tend to be consistent across most natural images and hard to forge.
i have a little story in today's telegraph about a couple getting married today, although it was just the 11/11 they wanted, the 2011 was a bonus.
march 13, 2011 call it the anti-ark museum we visited the harvard museum of natural history yesterday to see a talk.
from the company press  release: mascoma and valero ink deal to develop commercial cellulosic ethanol  biorefinery lebanon, nh â€“ january 13, 2011 : mascoma corporation today announced that valero energy  corporation, the nation's largest independent oil refiner, has invested in  mascoma corporation.
while working in the yard sunday (i still haven't cleaned up all the downed limbs from the halloween snowstorm, because my $#%@ chainsaw broke)
it says they have occasionally been  revelead and then re-covered by sands over the decades.
april 27, 2011 after 259 hours in space, a visit to aerospacefest in concord manchester native lee morin, anstronaut who flew on sts-110 atlantis, the 13 th shuttle mission to the international space station, and has logged over 259 hours in space, will speak at noon as part of the second annual aerospacefest at mcauliffe-shepard discovery center.
future plans for the station will also be presented by santos and david  mcdonald, education director at the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center.
because plants make a lot more cellulose than seeds.
the story says why this is a good idea: ninety-five percent of the 1,500 saltwater tropical fish species sold for use in home aquariums are collected in the wild from coral reefs in the pacific ocean, such as those off the philippines and indonesia.
as a sign of how much energy it takes to break ice bonds, i had to pour 5 inches of nearly boiling water into the rain gauge to melt what turned out to be 4.8 inches worth of ice/snow, and it still took about 10 minutes.
mother nature sure can be a pain in the neck.
you gotta love miss vermont in the second video.
february 16, 2011 cape cod erosion reveals marconi's original broadcast towers the foundations of the marconi radio towers on cape code â four 210-foot wooden towers used to broadcast the first wireless trans-atlantic message, which went from teddy roosevelt to king edward on jan. 18, 1903 - were revealed by beach erosion caused by a big storm, reports climatetide.
scnh co-founder dan marcek just lined up the first panelist:joe pato of hp labs.
so airbrushed pictures tend to have different statistics in compressed mode that non-airbrushed pictures.
the reality is that our surface heat radiation is roughly similar over most of our body, with some variation due to amount of blood supply near the surface, depth of subcutaneous fat, presence of heair, etc.
this is an interesting, complicated topic, and i wonder how much reader insight we're missing via this registration policy.
i just spent 10 minutes busting through the crusted-over 16" of snow (yesterdays' storm ended with icy rain, ugh) trying to find the friggin' thing and had to give up.
more on that "pulsed power makes ice disappear" startup near dartmouth
another big solar plant on a mass. landfill 5.6-megawatt photovoltaicd plant - more than 2 times the output of all the pv in new hampshire combined, by my estimation - is planned to cover a closed landfill in canton, mass. (read the globe story here.)
50th anniversary of gagarin's flight coming up reminder:
there are also interactive projects, like bach (binaural cooperative hypertext), software that uses shockwave to integrates musical scores with audio and commentary on the web.
at the time of sampling, 85 individuals were captured.
january 31, 2011 "approval voting" (vote for more than one candidate) sought for nh i will have a story in tomorrow's telegraph about a proposal (this bill) to allow "approval voting" in nh - basically it would allow you to vote for as many different candidates as you wanted, e.g., you could have voted for all three governor candidates if you couldn't choose among them.
here's the puc "docket" on the whole issue, if you want more details.
i have no idea who he is, and when the light changed he drove off without a glance in my direction.
northernpass hydropower line delayed at least a year the much-debated northern pass power line, designed to bring 1,200 megawatts of hydropower down from quebec to new england, has pushed back its earliest turn-on date from 2015 to 2016.
of course, i'm not the one who has to fix the problem.
among other things, digital had 34,000 employees - 34,000! - at its height, many in manufacturing.
unh oversees drilling of two-mile-long antarctic ice core from unh news service:
my telegraph column today talks about digital changes in the tiny border town of mason (population about 1500).
should plans to install somewhat interactive electric meters, as a step  toward making more efficient use of our electricity, be stymied by the fact  that a few people are convinced the wireless meters do weird stuff to their  bodies?
today's ice-on-streets factoid: roadsalt bounces, brine doesn't last night's icy rain on top of snow didn't produce the morning commute  nightmare i was expecting - although i almost fell three times walking to the  car in my own driveway.
it's a really  nice rain gauge, though.
but it has a surprisingly clever web site.
they give youjust a tease online.
the banks a little steep where i usually go … i might have to try to find another spot.
he said he expected to bring brine to central vermont next year.
and a great quote: lowell, mass., resident robert ellis made friends by bringing along a surge protector and letting other customers plug in some of their devices while he worked on his laptop.
april 11, 2011 long-distance calls over the internet; like magic, but vaguely worrisome my daughter is in africa at the moment.
too large or too small meant we had to throw it back.
it's a 10-state program that was long touted as a model for national cap-and-trade - something that isn't going to happen any time soon.
check outhis coumn here.
more startling, though, is the fact that it was 80 degrees when i got up.
on the other hand, my days with "the philosophy of thomas aquinas" were a dud.
late monday night we were visited by what appears to have been a bear.
the wais divide project is specifically investigating the small timing  offsets between past changes in the atmospheric concentration of greenhouse  gases and changes in temperature.
whether it helps a functioning democracy is another question.
september 27, 2011 could biofuel be made from wood using just water, not microbes?
you can get ready for the celebration this weekend in exeter at the third annual ufo festival.
this isn't an original idea: as early as 2007 (seemy post here, which includes the v2g initialism, i notice) people were doing this with a prius.
after 10 years, and more than 40 birds tagged (mostly on the vineyard), his project is providing much-needed data revealing migrational differences among ospreys and helping pin down where threats to the birds lie," added macleod.
it sounds darn good to me.
it included two interesting tidbits: * the effectiveness of road salt goes down dramatically as the temperature goes down.
tom thomas w. french, ph.d. assistant director division of fisheries and wildlife one rabbit hill road westborough, ma 01581 may 10, 2011 slow-draining lake champlain is a slow-motion flood
march 22, 2011 compressed-air energy storage draws ge investment mass high tech reports that west lebanon, nh-based sustainx has gotten a $14.4 million investment from ge to further its work developing ways to store energy with compressed air.
we're taking december off, and january's cafe will be about the math, science and sociology of polls and polling.
scientists and engineers from the university of new hampshire's space science center (ssc) have been selected to provide instruments for two upcoming satellite missions led by the european space agency and the japan aerospace exploration agency.
worcester business journal has a story (read it here) in which it is argued that cities are the right size to lead in this sort of technology.
the height of the wave was only 22 microns!
we  scroll the pages on the screen and they disappear into the aether.
unh has already been awarded over $661,000 for the project.
his sub-orbital parabola was a hasty response to yuri gargain's orbits, 23 days earlier, but it showed that the u.s. wasn't as far behind in the space race as it might have seemed.
maps are a perfect combination of utility, beauty, engineering, mathematics, mystery and a bunch of other cool concepts.
i'll have to hunt up my old story.
just going through the "pit" where teams scramble to repair their robots is enough to give hope to anybody who despairs of today's not-do-it-yourself society.
the collection barely touches on the range and number of species on the planet; yet it's so huge that it shows the mysterious linear unit "cubit" would have to equal a football field or more to build a boat that could hold two of everything - even when discounting fishes, flying birds, bats and dinosaurs.
this  station, ka1sky, will be formally dedicated on feb. 14 at 11 a.m.part of school  club round-up week, to 2009's station project manager ken rust, kb1prv, who  recently became a silent key.
measuring radiation in new hampshire my column today talks about the various ways that new hampshire measures radiation in our air, soil, water and even farm sileage - we have stations and sampling protocols near seabrook and vermont yankee, and a federal air-sniffer in concord that's part of a federal program designed both to establish good baseline data and spot anomalies.
it has several thousand observers scattered throughout the 50 states.
using a power plant's waste heat as heat is harder than it sounds a 50-megawatt wood-burning electrical power plant has operated in the heart of burlington, vermont, for decades.
that doesn't seem plausible, which implies that a switch to this form of calling will start eating the seed corn of the entire structure, leading to weakness and failure down the road.
july 6, 2011 renewable energy (mostly wood, hydropower) passes nuclear power in us renewable energy sources - much of it large-scale hydropower, but also geothermall, biomass (burning wood), solar and wind), generated 2.245 quadrillion btus of energy, or 11.7 percent of u.s. energy production, according tothis report from domesticfuel.
a free lecture on mechanical cad at nashua's "maker-space" nashua's new maker-space, makeitlabs, has lots of cool tools that members can use (including almost-ready3-d printer) but what makes it really valuable is expertise - all those hacker/do-it-yourselfers whose brains you can pick in a loose, geeky-workshop atmosphere.
the monitor has an article today that takes a local aspect: that  towers may require faa approval because they might go near the city's airport,  unless existing rights of way can be used.
the current reactor was installed in 1975 and  it uses a more highly enriched version of uranium fuel than a commercial plant.
they are one of those products that summarize the weird wonder of childhood; the fact that you cooked food with a 100-watt light bulb is just so charmingly goofy that it's irresistable.
heating with wood will never replace heating with oil in new england, but it sure could make a dent in that expensive, environmentally not-so-hot practice.
january 6, 2011 gps-enabled coyotes control rats and mice in chicago via braniac, i learned that chicago puts gps units on wild coyotes that now live in the city, to study their habits.
the full list is here.
we could create a militia to line state borders and keep out  clocks showing massachusetts time.
they were the lowest of low-maintenance: i threw stuff on them for a couple of years, then started a new pile and let the old pile rot for a couple more years.
they require voters to do such things as list the candidates in order  of preference or give each one a varied score.
she cringed watched me dribble a little bit of water on the counter here and splash a tiny bit out of the beaker there, and finally couldn't help herself: "you'd have real problems in organic chemistry, where the amount left on the (stirring) spoon would make a difference.
kelley's experiments with this oil produced a startling improvement in clock lubrication; and by the latter half of the 1800's, the use of dolphin head or porpoise jaw oil for timepiece lubrication had virturally become standard, not only in the united states but through europe as well.
the same problem has afflicted other alternative fuels such as compressed natural gas, which is why you don't see many cng cars around.
part of the experiment will involve "consumer manipulation" within a measurable section of a stream by taking away or adding animals like aquatic insects or fish to see what effects these animals have on the overall stream processes.
after the talk, a st. anselm physics professor tried to explain the issue, but as they stood and talked the engineer demonstrated that smartest-guy-in-the-room attitude which turns so many people against the sciences and kept loudly interrupting.
no wonder i'm always getting wet when i hike in the white mountains!
the author obviously doesn't use wood for heating and has probably never been around a woodpile with a given quantity of wood in it.
i wrote about the program back in march of 2010, when e-books started joining audiobooks, but the system has grown a lot since then.
they are extra cool, however, in that the cover is areuleaux triangle, a curve of constant width - meaning the cover can't fall down through its own hole.
daphnia minnehaha with mild defensive neckteeth against predators credit: dr. paul d.n. hebert (university of guelph).
a release from the division of plant industry in the state department of  agriculture says bmsb and another pest that is on its way here but hasn't been  spotted yet, the spotted wing drosophila (swd), "cause damage in a  wide-array of agricultural crops, and both can subsist in non-agricultural  plants, like forest and ornamental trees, in the absence of a suitable  agricultural host.
here's the greentech media piece.
meanwhile, i'll crank up my legal team, dewey cheatham and howe.
"monkeys have been shown in previous studies to really love photographs of alpha males and shots of genitals, and we think this will drive their purchasing habits.
more on that "pulsed power makes ice disappear" startup near  dartmouth my column today has more on icecode, the startup using technology from a  dartmouth college professor that sends very short pulses of high power through  heating elements to separate built-up ice from surfaces.
the video isn't online, butthis summary says they busted it - that is,  they couldn't start a fire from pure friction, not even when dribbling gasoline  on the hot, spinning tire.
i wish i had this available to me when i was growing up.
it's a wonder that any lobster escaped but there always seemed to be more.
my only dissapointment about the night is we didn't discuss the mathematics of determining margin of error.
says lammers, "while there are large parts of the world where small glaciers have been identified and mapped, such as the himalayas, in other regions they are neither well mapped nor sufficiently investigated with respect to what a warming climate will do to them."
it notes that study a state study from 2001-2006 "found winter ticks accounted for 41 percent of all moose deaths in the state over a five-year period.
"there are not a lot of things anyone can do, but one thing that can be done is not disturb the trees by doing any thinning," he said.
the other shows the alpha male of the capuchin troop associated with brand a.
defining a trillion by turkey plate specials the union-leader has a piece today trying to put the number  "trillion" into perspective.
rosenau noted that the medicine has an active ingredient listed at 3x, which means diluted 10 x 10 x 10 times, and that an active ingredient concentration of one-tenth of a percent isn't all that unusual for real medicine.
but ethan strimling, another former state senator, earned 4,390 first-place votes, or 22.4 percent, which left him "within striking distance," he said.
anyway, the coyotes  usually keep out of sight.
a self-driving farm tractor from a massachusetts firm google might want to make self-driving cars, but a self-driving farm tractor should be a lot easier.
nothing of scientific interest was taken, but some material related to franklin roosevelt and other u.s. presidents was recovered by authorities,according to this free-press story.
other alternative voting schemes also allow voters to cast ballots for multiple candidates per seat, but are more complicated than traditional voting.
today, 365 years ago, christian huygens discovered saturn's largest moon titan.
well, because they're new, i guess.
at least, that's what the a fire marhsal told foster's  daily democratin this story.
7-year sentence for modem-hacking scheme a n.h. man who released malware that made computer modems dial special  premium phone numbers, racking up millions in charges that he and buddies  pocketed, has been sentenced to 7 years in jail.
"i'm not sure how heavy the drum is, but two guys can't pick it up,"  said white.
march 26, 2011 slow but steady progress for our endangered state butterfly
as for a tsunami, here's a quote from unh geophysics professor margaret boettcher in response to an email query of mine: "it is also quite unlikely that the east coast will be hit by a tsunami generated by fault slip in the atlantic because there are very few subduction zones (the type of plate boundary that japan and chile are on) in the atlantic."
january 10, 2011 unh helps sequence strawberry genome from unh news service: an international team of researchers, including several from the university of new hampshire, have completed the first dna sequence of any strawberry plant, giving breeders much-needed tools to create tastier, healthier strawberries.
as the weather continues to get warmer, more ticks will be out in the open, and most infections in maine occur during the summer months.
verizon 4g best in boston, at&t good elsewhere pc magazine did drive tests for 3g/4g networks around the country, using android phones.
but a ph.d. candidate at stanford university is raising an interesting question about them:
and, i'm  happy to say, no bobhouses were destroyed.
i did not notice that it shortened the days-long infection period, which is what i really wanted, but i'm not sure i ever applied it soon enough after getting infected to expect that the oils could be removed.
northern lights display possible tonight i'm flying out tonight to visit my dad, so i'll miss it, but the u-l reports that solar activity has scientists predicting good northern lights displays tonight (thursday night).
read the burlington free-press article here.
the only drawback is the full moon, which will wash it out a bit.
direct comparison can be difficult, however, because of varied makeup of radioactive elements in spent fuel.
the state environmental agency said this is the longest distance a mountain lion has been known to travel,according to this story.
turns out he founded genetech, which helped launch the whole biotech scene around route 128, making him more than worthy of enshrinment.
the majority of unh's digital books are offered on the free nookstudy platform, which allows students to highlight materials, link to websites and course notes, and create study guides for exams straight from the textbook.
animetrics90 implements 2d-3d normalization through the generation of the 3d model for every image processed by the system.
http://www.informationisbeautiful.net/ everyone should take a look at this to cut through the advertising hype and get to the truth of the matter.
earle rich mont vernon, nh fruitland park, fl march 17, 2011 a (non-geeky)
n.h. firm's facial-recognition software popular with police animetrics, a conway, n.h.-based firm, has algorithms for turning 2d photos of faces into 3d software objects to aid facial recognition searches.
(she frequently tweaks the wikipedia article about the abduction, for example.)
this is what it looked like 12 hours after being created as a single  sentence.
once the eggs hatch, they become larvae, commonly known as maggots, which feed on the fruit, spoiling it for human consumption.
tuesday is science cafe new hampshire - this month it talks about the science and math of public polls, particularly political polling.
with the guidance of volunteer amateur  radio operators, visitors will be able to talk to other "hams" around  the world as well as contact the international space station when it is in a  favorable position.
you can make all the bug jokes you want, but as an eight-legged arachnid, ticks aren't bugs by the strict definition.
the range can be much greater in other states: hawaii, which includes what may bethe wettest place on earth, ranges from 37 days of precipitation to 267 of them!
for more information, check: http://extension.unh.edu/agric/agpmp/brownmarmoratedstinkbug.htm some details: "in early fall, bmsb aggregates inside homes and other structures in  search of a protected shelter from winter's harsh conditions.
my telegraph column, complete with a video that shows why my attempts at becoming carl sagan 2.0 are unlikely to succeed, concers webworms, the messy-but-not-harmful caterpillars that clutter up trees this time of years.
underground lines are less vulnerable to high winds, falling trees, ice and snow, nei electric said, but perhaps more susceptible to other hazards.
he says his daughter found them on the way home from school.
details from mass high tech can be read here.
yesterday in my telegraph column i lambasted incandescent light bulbs  because they're grossly inefficient (drawing a lively conversation in the  comments section, as you'll see if you check it out.)
n.h. has long tested for radiation in the air, water and plants and crustaceans throughout the southern part of the state to make sure nothing is oozing out of vermont yankee or seabrook station nh audubon society: comparison of bird population trends among nine nh habitats.
weather is a weird thing, eh? n.h. lawmakers think about killing cap-and-trade new hampshire's republican-dominated legislature - "dominated" is  hardly strong enough; the gop is king and queen of all it surveys in concord  after it swept the state in the last election - is taking a look at whether to  continue our participation in the regional carbon cap-and-trade program called  rggi, or regional greenhouse gas initiative.
all their postings are archived so that if you wish, you can trace the history of energy production.
that is amazing from a technical point of view, although it also shows how certain types of "green energy" aren't going to be major job-creators.
i didn't realize how systemetic they had gotten until i read a free-press article about a new high-tech composting facility in vermont - it's indoors, not outdoor, and the main problem so far is keeping thepiles from getting *too* hot, which kills beneficial bacteria.
in a way, lobstering is cattle ranching while fishing for, say, tuna, is deer hunting.
i've missed several days and i've only been doing it six months.
tests will include static and fatigue testing, blade material testing, dual axis static or fatigue testing and quality testing.
i'm not sure if they'll have any of their most famous display, of various  mit hacks - including the fake cop car that was placed on top of the mit dome.
the first spam, a dec marketing staffer's email sent around the old arpanet, was launched on this day in 1978, as i reminded by the telegraph's weirdly entrancing feature called daily twip -read
i didn't play with an easy bake oven as a kid - gender stereotypes, you  know -
they're weird triangular things, purple-colored and baited with phermone to attracted the bugs.
i've included a sceen shot of part of the brochure, above.
legislators are scrambling to change this rather embarrassing discrepancy with a bill (hb61) that would put us back in line with the feds before we change our clocks next week.
" i hope that the always personable co-founder, mark mallet, will talk about it with me later.
hooksett was the first plant in the u.s. to buy them, according to kreuger.
the nuclear regulatory commission has a calculator for estimating your daily exposure to radiation.
this is part of the process for melding standards used in aircraft and in autos.
the most likely explanation (as discussed here) is  that an unusual ice crystal called pyramidilly-terminated hexagonal prism in  the atmospher caused a larger-than-usual halo effect around the sun, which made  a just-below-the-horizon sun to be apparently visible.
soft-skinned  fruits, like nectarines, blueberries, raspberries, cherries, and strawberries.
watch the animation here.
first pitch at phillies game was thrown by a robot
the ig nobels awards are coming (thursday, sept. 29, at harvard as usual) and have a youtube promo (a clever one, of course) here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6pwbx9q9cbc&.
the three-store toadstool bookshops, a very fine local independent bookstore, has signs on its counters asking people not to buy kindles because that locks them into amazon and locks out bookstores.
a pipe clogged with zebra mussels.
me neither, but now i  know why it exists: it has spotted the arrival of the brown marmorated stink  bug (bmsb), an invasive pest from east asia that was spotted in pennsylvania in  the 1990s and which has spread to 32 states.
slowing down the spread seems to be about the best we can do.
*i know, i know - the state says we shouldn't leave birdfeeders out right now for that very reason.
instead, power company crews in cities like houston are being dispatched to spray electrical lines.
(between600 billion and 600 trillion, depending on which calculation you used.)
i was in our local hardware store yesterday (county stores in milford, whose owner used to humilate me on the basketball court when our town had a casual over-30 league, not that i hold it against him) and found myself in the light bulb aisle.
to be perfectly honest they were not the best-written of stories - creating dialogue, as i found when i tried writing novels in my youth, is much harder than it looks - but the approach was intriguing.
we were casually discussing uninterruptable power supplies when the  director mentioned that he had thrown out several because the battery had died.
the building was completed in 2008 but hasn't been used because of neighborhood opposition.
next year i hope to win tweet of the year, and then perhaps after that i'll win adjectival subclause of the year.
our recordis a 19 year old male that nested on the customs house in boston.
hahahahaha - get it???
this scenario is often shorthand labeled "clovis culture," named for a certain type of stone tools found near clovis, n.m., and indicative of most of the earliest archaeological digs in the content.
pre-'clovis' humans in north america now seem a certainty
the legislators said they didn't want to interfere with private contracts signed by homeowners and associations.
the kindle only uses amazon's version, so it can't read drm'ed books from other sellers.
it was a cute picture - they were all dressed up in party dress and coat-and-tie - but the museum had no information about it.
seabrook station, new hampshire's only nuclear power plant, is taking a look at what it needs to do to lessen the risk - nhpr has a good report: "with funds from the new hampshire des, the rockingham planning commission conducted a study two years ago in seabrook.
does digital privacy exist?
"joe is a testament to what you can do if you maintain your car" is a quote from the story and it says a lot, although it doesn't hurt to own a simple reliable model (in this case, 1990 honda acord).
i've since done some interviews and written a story that will run this weekend.
you've probably seen emerald ash borer traps hanging in trees, also designed to spot early arrivals.
here's the nh environmental services page about it.
hasbro, salon says, is going to replace it with "the easy-bake ultimate oven.
the rest of the world must make do with prizes for english (not spelling, though; that's another south asian stronghold) or stuff like debating.
they've got a google map and other interactive stuff, so i supposed it's real.
in case we forgot dry july was, the chart giving precipitation data at my house will remind us.
" here's the whole story.
so i guess this could be a problem if there was a long drought on our seacoast, as well.
spontaneous combustion - the real kind (unfortunately) the term "spontaneous combustion" in news reports usually refers  to the unsubstantiated idea that people sometimes burst into flame and burn up  for no obvious reason.
i have a story in the telegraph today about why 603 is going to remain the only telephone area code in new hampshire for at least four and probably 10 or more years to come - and it's not because of voip or google voice or skype or anything like that.
you can see his pitch here: http://www.rockethub.com/projects/3777-does-the-act-of-looking-change-what-we-see (some readers say that link is bad, but it works for me.
daphnia minnehaha with mild defensive neckteeth against predators credit:  dr. paul d.n. hebert (university of guelph).
it's basically the same as 3x3x3, except more so - whereas the 4x4x4 requires a different approach.
watch yesterday's earthquake "ripple" across the u.s. on a video seismometers from the earthscope project transportable array measured the up-and-down motion of the ground from the magnitude 5.9 earthquake that occurred in virginia on august 23, 2011.
of couse, it's a lot easier to make a smart grid inside a facility owned by a single firm than across a city or state - a benign dictator is always more efficient than a democracy - so the lessons to the wide world are limited.
among the items that will  be on display: the world's first pocket-sized scientific calculator (1972);  wind tunnel models that helped determine the cause of the john hancock tower's  window failure (1970s); mit-harvard merger petitions (1904); recordings from an  (impromptu) grateful dead concert at mit (1970).
big cat sightings prove to be as elusive as the cats addendum:
here's a blog that argues, without much detail, that the lines could be  buried march 2011 march 1, 2011 dense snow on the ground yesterday's rain - 7/10ths of an inch where i live - compacted the 24  inches of snow on the ground in my yard into 20.5.
these big metal tubes allow streams and brooks to flow under roadways, and their dimensions are based on historical rainfall/runoff data.
hooray, or maybe not a few months ago the telegraph changed it so that you have to register to post a comment on a story, using a valid email address.
news item: the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center, in conjunction with the contoocook valley radio club (cvrc) and the new england amateur radio festival (near-fest), has completed production of an amateur radio station.
while some researchers believe there are discernable decade patterns to the oscillation, others say a good measurement record dates back only to 1950.
i wrote up a proposal for more ups along with links to battery replacement  companies and prices.
the point i found most interesting came from panelist david moore, who cofounded unh's survey center and worked for gallup among other things.
what do 1,570 derelict lobster traps look like on the ocean floor?
the grant is awarded under the first round of competitively awarded grants for the agency's new macrosystems biology program, designed to spur research on ecosystem processes and their complex interactions with climate, land use, and invasive species at regional to continental scales.
july 22, 2011 80 degrees at 6:30 a.m.!
biotech has never really grabbed my interest, although i can't say why.
uv light water purifiers seem more like magic than technology
ham radios are spreading like crazy.
i remember being astonished at how little stuff ended up in the family trash can when our town started recycling paper, several years ago.
make a recipe with local ingredients 5.
and speaking of flying, do pilots prefer to fly boeing or airbus?
it starts at 7:30 p.m., titled "an introduction to basic mcad techniques and tools for creating 2d laser cutter profiles or 3d shapes for simple milling and rapid prototype production."
nothing alarming or too surprising, say geologists, but interesting.
during the reporting i stumbled across a study done by the centers for disease control, of all people, about "wireless substitution" - an estimate of the percentage of adults living in households that have dropped landline entirely in favor of cells phones.
when i saw that i checked the ingredient list.
in some cases, gear can even get so encrusted with marine life that it becomes an artificial habitat.
february 8, 2011 dec cofounder ken olsen dies two events created modern nashua/southern new hampshire: one was the 1952 arrival ofsanders associates, a defense electronics firm, into the empty mills left by the collapse of the textile industry, and the other was the early 1970s arrival of digital equipment corp., expanding up from massachusetts.
launching pad startup-funding program.
many spelunkers have opposed this move.
earle rich mont vernon june 27, 2011 a smart grid in action: 20 percent less use for more production the huge ibm plant in essex junction, vt., near burlington, has turned its electricity service into a two-way "smart grid" and says this has helped the plant cut power use 20 percent while increasing production.
the telegraph has ended its "forums" section, which created discussion areas for general topics that were supposed to draw crowds of people who would have lively, intelligent debate prodded by our news stories, thus drawing hordes of eager advertisers.
to find out more about this osprey project and see updated maps of saco's journey, visithttp://www.nhnature.org and click on the project ospreytrack button.
but it's never too late to change.
the main lesson, of course, is that if you build in floodplains, you'll have problems.
the odd thing is that new england's moose population is doing pretty well  - so well that they're spililng over into new york state,as a report  from last october said.
for more information go towww.nhhtc.org.
note that this data is taken from fewer than 10 stations in each state, since that's the number which reported a "complete water year," not missing any days.
august 2, 2011 ig nobel tickets go on sale today!
the ceremony will happen at the usual place (opulent sanders theater at harvard).
these results are in line  with both the ancient greek democratic system and the recent discovery that the  adoption of random strategies can improve the efficiency of hierarchical  organizations.
when i pick up the paper, i know that there are lines of people behind it who worked and thought and collabrated and made my life happier.
" if this is a true turnaround, it's important because it shows that crashes of major ocean species can be reversed if we leave them alone.
this treehugger post (here) talks about how unusually high overnight temperatures are worse for health and some crops than unusually high daytime temperatures, because they don't give a chance to cool off between blasts.
i'm surprised a bear could come up against the house without waking us, one floor above.
50 years of manned space flight: it's yuri's night addendum: wired.com has a cool article about doctored photos from the soviet space era, in which various people were airbrushed out of photos because they misbehaved, died, or otherwise ran afoul of authorities.
* * note to non-nh readers - these are referencers to a couple particularly interesting laws that have been proposed lately.
these results are in line with both the ancient greek democratic system and the recent discovery that the adoption of random strategies can improve the efficiency of hierarchical organizations.
that's part of the conclusion from hiawatha bray's look at digital  equipment corp. in the light of the recent death of cofounder ken olsen.
photo by rachel andrews damon, pilot kenyon king - granite reliable power windfarm being constructed near dummer, n.h. mount washington is in the background.
there are a  number of people who swear they have seen one in the wild, but officials point  to the lack of any proof - no good footprints, no hair tufts caught on barbed  wire, no photos from handheld cameras or the many automatic "critter  cams" in the woods - and say that the sightings are probably of bobcats,  which are bigger than most people realize.
as a long term subscriber, i won't see a difference as we pick it up out of  our box.
sometimes my job is fun!
longer free-press story here.
"the observatory had a high-gain antenna on a deployable boom," recalls professor mark mcconnell of the ssc and department of physics and who spent the first 15 years of his career at unh working on comptel.
the effects of the  "super-secret" government program "to eliminate opposition"  are to "reduce the brain's essential chemistry gradually without the  target being aware."
we can answer questions that before would have been impossible to  address," says davis, who has been working on the strawberry genome  project since 2006 as part of the international strawberry genome sequencing  consortium.
at one time the national plan was to move such fuel into dry storage casks inside yucca mountain in nevada, but that plan was scuttled by the obama administration after years of dispute and controversy.
but around boston, they said, "while t-mobile's hspa+ 21 network is also speedy, verizon's 4g is by far the fastest.
march 5, 2011 unh finds home routers/modems aren't ready for ipv6 networkworld has a report on a recent "plugfest" test of home  routers and modems atunh's interoperability lab, one of the nation's foremost  places to see whether equipment is ready for ipv6, and says the results weren't  pretty, although details are scarce because labs "are typically  tight-lipped about plugfest results.
she was told that is was a compatibility problem between two computer systems, the checkin system and the billing system.
the parallels to my industry - newspapers are dying; is that good or bad for journalism and democracy? - are obvious.
but due to lack of space (in the column) and time (to research and write), and to the fact that i never really got an "aha!"
my biggest problem is that i'm on a well, so i have no water.
it is  this habit that caused it to be considered, from the first, a homeowner's  nuisance rather than an agricultural pest.
we used 1/2â³ plywood as the base since we wanted some structural strength.
january 2011 was the  ninth-driest january in the united states in 117 years.
a milford math teacher realized this back in 2009 and bought hundreds of dollars worth of a scratch game called new hampshire millionaire's club because the payoff had bloomed while the number of remaining tickets shrunk due to a shortage of winners.
october 26, 2011 telegraph photo by bob hammerstrom - some pipetting units from integra.
are you saying i can even buy a cup of coffee? …
but google is pissed off and ramping down the company's results manually.
here's my column about it today.
the system works fine as long as the shower isn't turned on full blast.
"smoothing out" pictures with airbrushing makes it easier to compress the picture because it blurs sharp edges.
here's their technical description.
i look forward to her "fractal fandango", or perhaps a "linear algebra liturgy" if she gets her degree in the subject.
hence a state program looking for people to help shape their property into the sort of scrubby lands that little rabbits like.
five years ago i was writing about community supported agriculture (csa) operations as a novelty, but now they're mainstream, as are farmers markets featuring real food, not just knick-knacks and flowers, as well as pick-your-own places.
although with its slightly stuffy motto that "these are studies that make people laugh, then think."
the video linked below, spotted via bad astronomy, does a good job putting the distance in perspective.
lyme disease is preventable.
i had 8 1/2 inches at home at 7 a.m., so it looks like we'll easily top a foot before this is done.
as a sign of how much energy it takes to break ice bonds, i had to pour 5  inches of nearly boiling water into the rain gauge to melt what turned out to  be 4.8 inches worth of ice/snow, and it still took about 10 minutes.
someone working in crowd control like an airport or major entertainment center must have to put with a lot of this type of unconcious behavior.
playing with the map finds something interesting: our legislature is well above average in the precentage of lawmakers with doctoral degrees.
as author and editor  ofcosmology and the evolution of the universe, he is involved in  searching for answers to questions like: how did our universe begin?
some small inconvenience to others only lasts for the time it takes for that one meal and no one is really paying attention.
i was just given an edelstaal miniature lathe that had been stored in less than ideal conditions.
they have returned their books, for now,as i report in today's telegraph.
(i bet that "thank you" isn't exactly what the editor was thinking.)
they finally had to cut the lines after being swamped with angry  international calls.
the comptel experiment was headed up at unh by professor jack lockwood until his retirement, at which point professor james ryan took over as the principal investigator.
so reportsmass high tech in this report.
the principal investigator for the project is regine hock of the university of alaska, fairbanks.
i must confess that i'm a maker admirer but not participant; the few things i've ever built (shelving in the unfinished basement) were ugly hack jobs that barely served their purpose, due to combination of impatience and clumsiness.
mascoma's  200,000 gallons of cellulosic ethanol per year demonstration facility in  rome, new york, has demonstrated the viability of the technology over the past  two years and sets the stage for the commercial facility.
supporters say such  alternatives create a better reflection of the electorate's overall opinion  that the usual voting method, which is called first-past-the-post, or  single-member plurality.
still, the ability to shut down computers gracefully is good to have.
i strongly suggest you read the article here.
the graphics designer pulling two of the gears apart so the triad is no longer an immovable, interlocking mess.
e. coli outbreaks occur because food is full of excrement i have a story in the telegraph today in which officials express concern and confusion about the e. coli outbreak ingermany (you can read it here), but to be frank, there's a much better story on slate that gets right to the point: e. coli outbreaks occur in meat and on various produce because we fertilize food with excrement, and because it's hard to kill animals without some of the excrement in their intestines getting in the food.
more storms, worse air coming to the seacoast, courtesy of climate change "the likelihood of more frequent and severe weather events, increased asthma, and the death of crucial plant life in great bay are all realities on the seacoast.
the story is nothing new but still depressing: "as it continues to spread we don't see anything slowing the spread of the fungus down," ann froschauer of the u.s. fish and wildlife service said during a conference call with reporters.
then he backtracks with the crew, drawing the overhead lasher along utility wires between poles.
the grant came from the new hampshire innovation commercialization center,  one of those public/private enterprises designed to spur job-creating  innovation.
the recent habit of big storms traveling south of nh is getting to be annoying.
if you were a legitimate user, and could prove it, they'd unlock you.
it was fun, and i got to talk about one of  my most enjoyable stories/columns, when i tried to calculate the number of  leaves that change color in new hampshire each leaf-peeping season.
get a science/tech college degree i assume that people who read a column called granite geek are more likely to have college degrees in the sciences than in the humanities, so we'll all get some self-satisfaction from this story: over a lifetime, the earnings of workers who have majored in engineering, computer science or business are as much as 50 percent higher than the earnings of those who major in the humanities, the arts, education and psychology, according to an analysis by researchers at georgetown university's center on education and the workforce.
still, the ability to shut down computers  gracefully is good to have.
the story notes "the state is poised to test a scale model of a floating offshore wind turbine next summer ….
(spotted via slashdot)
here's the us chess league home site, with breaking news like this: with a resounding win over sm jorge samour-hasbun, one of the most exciting players in the uscl, shankland (left) led the nor'easters to a much needed 3.5 - 0.5 victory over their archrivals, the boston blitz.
forest roads will be gated and all developed sites and backcountry shelters are being evacuated.
but i doubt i'll ever top the 299,100 that doug earl of fremont, nh, put on his ford focus.
extreme surgical mask wins high-tech product of year award foss manufacturing's surgical mask has won top honors as the new hampshire high technology council's 2011 product of the year.
level 4 labs have all sorts of safety precautions when entering or leving through muliple airlocks, including ultraviolet light rooms.
in australia, kangaroos are the big issue; "in africa, a large antelope, like the giant eland, could do as much damage as a moose, but most of these animals graze a little farther from the freeways.
a student at nashua high school named mackenzie turnbull has recorded a math rap, and uploaded it to youtube.
the really interesting thing is that they proposal to bury it rather than string it on towers.
to use an example which helped prod mcguire to draft the bill, consider november's election for governor, which had three candidates.
on the other hand, upstairs we have four, 4-week-old kittens that are so freaking cute i can't stand it.)
of course, no comments also means no intelligent discussion by readers, which is too bad.
i certainly hope that if an afterlife does exist and has some  ethereal connection to this world, we aren't forced to spend eternity  flitting in and out of reflective surfaces in restaurants.
the article says there may be as few as 440 right whales left in the world,  which doesn't sound big enough to maintain a population for such a large,  slow-breeding animal.
a list of these publications can be found at http://www.biomedcentral.com/series/daphnia.
october 9, 2011 steve jobs was brilliant, but he sure could be a jerk all the hagiography for steve jobs is well deserved on the business front, but i'm glad i never worked for him.
"some will get it lightly and not be affected too much, but trees that are affected can lose about 50 percent of their needles reducing their energy sources by half.
for solar orbiter, unh is a subcontractor to the southwest research institute, the lead institution for the heavy ion sensor (his).
however, as the paucity of such systems shows, it's hard to build machinery that will stand up to the pounding of moving water, particularly seawater, is tough.
for details: http://improbable.com/ig/2011/ when water chestnuts invade a river, they *really* invade it my telegraph column this week (read it here) includes a video by staff photographer don himsel of canoing past a large mat of water chestnuts on the nashua river.
in addition, as the science of genome sequencing evolved in the past decade to use "fewer pipettes and more computers," says thomas, the hubbard center forged strong bonds with unh's computer science department, in particular professors dan bergeron and phil hatcher.
a cord of wood isn't something that is easy to visualize.
we just had a newspaper staff meeting - which, like all newspaper staff meetings for the past couple of years, mostly concerned how to deal with the online world - and during it i heard myself say "granitegeek automatically tweets all its posts."
the problem, as locqals know, is that northeastern's unusual coop-learning program means that it's a five-year school.
incandescent bulbs are like a gas pump that leaks 80% of the time
the column looks at scifund challenge, a short-term experiment on the rockethub platform, which has been crowd-funding arts projects for a while.
so we asked around as part of coverage, and it appears vaccine avoidance wasn't part of the problem - although 2 of the 14 kids did not get the dpt (diptheria, pertussis, tetanus) vaccine for religious reasons.
he then  either refurbishes and resells the items or breaks them down into individual  component piles, on site.
in fact, mcguire thinks new hampshire voters should be allowed to vote for as many people as they want in any race.
i would think that in this day and age that such an obvious issue could be easily solved.
harvard, with $43 million, is next.
modeling will be done to scale measurements up to regional and continental levels.
the new hampshire rollout, an extension up from eastern massachusetts, is slated for dec. 15.
the public reaction from a sighting have evolved over the years from "holy cow, is that a wild turkey?!?!"
they do this sort of analysis all the time, it seems: a look through their "news" section finds reports of them confirming the origin of lots of road-killed mountain lions - except that all of them are west of chicago.
(the globe story is here.)
check it out yourself here.
even the voting itself didn't take much longer than usual, except that surprisingly high turnout led to some crowding, she said.
t the moment, the north conway water project pv plant (167 kilowatts) is  the biggest in n.h. i haven't heard much later about psnh's idea for a  multi-megawatt plant at the manchester landfill, which was tied up in questions  of whether the utility could use some money it pays into a state-controlled  renewable energy fund.
when lightning just misses you and hits a tree, it isn't necessarily white
and it reflects how much culture matters, unless you think that half the world's population has some weird i-quantify-well gene.
march 21, 2011 deer hunting rules are an interesting bio-control mechanism my telegraph column today is about a proposal to institute antler point restrictions in parts of new hampshire for parts of the deer hunting season.
if you waffle they ask whether you're "leaning toward" one side/candidate or the other, and tally the resulting "oh, i guess it's x if i have to say something" as if it really represents an opinion.
it also points out that the 2,000 figure is delivered  robots, which doesn't mean they've actually been deployed.
the company's name is accio energy, which makes it the first serious startup i know that usesa harry potter spell as part of its brand.
they have no  choice: it's impossible, in the end, to run the coyotes out of town.
this year, as i have reported, my trees (like many others) were infected with a fungus that spoiled autumn color change.
the project has revealed that they're more  comfortable with urban life than one would have thought.
nobody was in the room to be reflected, they claim, so ghosts are the only possible explanation ... and meanwhile, here are today's specials.
emerald ash borers, the invasive insect that is destroying ash trees by the millions as it slowly makes it way here, is among the things it likes to eat.
noting that the state's emergency operations center has two stations for ham radios, i said "the spread of new communication technologies is helping an old technology hang on."
this isn't local, but it's too interesting to ignore: a biologist in the netherlands is trying to quantify the toll taken on bugs by automobiles.
he called it "a simple arrangement of machinery for navigating the air for purposes of transportation and travel, but more particularly with a view to operations of war in the present crisis."
from the story: comed would have known customers were out of power without them having to call us.
as part of it, we ran an old black-and-white photo from the mos showing little kids looking at an earlier generation of star projectors.
under the terms of the letter of intent, valero would potentially invest up to $50 million of the equity required to finance the project through frontier kinross llc, a subsidiary of frontier, and would enter into an off-take agreement for the project's ethanol production.
explaining the process.
i have a couple of ups units that were destined for the trash.
try a local cooking challenge very cool indeed.
read it here (i think it's available to non-subscribers, although it's hard to tell these days.)
the telegraph's article includes a pdf of mcauliffe's original application to the teacher in space program (here).
tabletop geometry i'm often amused by the assumptions people make when they don't poke their heads up to see the overall picture.
we felt like the "chosen ones", with no obligation to do anything except the research we loved best.
"i'm hoping that the committee will take their time."
a perfect example of the latter is the new hampshire dragonfly survey, which is winding up this fall after five years.
so far it has five anti-fluoride comments, but they're all pretty reasonable and rant-free (although one does use the word "fluoridationists," which is a new one to me).
and although this isn't presidential politics, the gop congressman for the western half of the state, charlie bass, also agrees that human-caused global warming is real (as i noted in this post), although he disagrees with many current legislative efforts to fight the problem.
for the jaxa "cross scale coupling in plasma universe" or scope mission, a team led by professor lynn kistler was selected to proceed with an 11-month mission concept study for unh's ion mass spectrum analyzer (imsa), which also draws on historical work done at unh, such as the codif (composition distribution function) instrument developed for the esa cluster satellite mission.
" that measurement was made possible by the detection of gamma rays from the far reaches of our galaxy.
she uses her maiden name and my last name seperated by a hyphen.
sometimes we would find our traps surrounded by their traps.
you can read the whole report here.
for example, they point in the direction that the water is supposed to flow beneath them, providing a bit of information to sewer workers.
weirdly, i somehow smashed my left big toe, which is blue, swollen and  throbbing.
in fact, he could have voted for john lynch, as well.
verizon finds a whole lot less - or maybe a little more - data theft loss thanks to the telegraph copy desk, i was alerted to an interesting article on threatpost.com about head-scratchingly odd data released by verizon, which says verizon found "a stunning 97% drop in the number of lost records, even as the number of reported breaches rose precipitously."
discovery center educator john gianforte will give  a presentation about nasa's effort to find out more about those alien worlds.
january 25, 2011 hackers from tunisia take down maine newspaper site the bangor daily news has an unusual statement on its home page today: the bangor daily news website suffered several hours of downtime monday evening after hackers from tunisia exploited a security vulnerability on one of the bdn's servers.
once inside, you can see the structure that holds the actual reactor, which at its core is only 15 inches across.
it's hard to know what to make of this, since there's no historical data to compare it with … which explains why scientists work so hard to establish baseline data about everything.
at least 500,000 free copies have been downloaded, and in two years he has made $9,000.
some though, place the narrow end facing them, thinking perhaps that they are making more room for others at the table.
the 2010 mean temperature was 46.7 degrees fahrenheit, nearly 3 degrees above the average from 1971 to 2000, which is considered the base temperature for modern comparisons, and 3.3 degrees warmer than the average from 1895 to 2010.
the bbc has a video, with a lot of surprisingly dainty explosions, although i bet they wouldn't seem so dainty up close.
alas, i finally talked to the guy - it turns out he saw  week-old, cougar-like footprints pointed out by other people, who say a nearby  deer carcass had been moved during the night, just like cougars do.
once inside, you can see the structure that holds the actual reactor, which  at its core is only 15 inches across.
the fact that you didn't even know that a professional team chess organization exists is telling, because i've rarely encountered an organization that is worse at getting the word out than the u.s. chess league.
and that's enough about that ...
they look sort of like a car's suspension system to me.
well worth seeing if you never have, and youdon't have to leave the mainland to do it .
unh says digital books save class "more than $70,000â³ in textbook fees from unh news service: a digital textbook program launched this semester at the university of new hampshire whittemore school of business and economics has saved students more than $70,000 in textbook costs, the university claims.
instant-runoff balloting was approved by voters in a charter referendum last year for the first mayor's race in 88 years (previously, the city council chose a mayor from its ranks).
the 1903 nobel prize for medicine concerned using uv against tuberculosis!
i could be painted on an existing wall instead.
i heard about my great-grandfather who lived during the civil war.
frontier will use hardwood pulpwood, which is  selectively harvested, naturally regenerated, and is an underutilized, abundant  resource in the area surrounding the kinross biorefinery.
here's the ap story.
but in the 1979-1980 winter, a generally positive north atlantic oscillation took over until fairly recently.
here's the site of the national space weather prediction center, part of noaa.
new england's first level 4 biohazard lab still on hold boston university has a building that it wants to use as a biosafety level 4 laboratory, to study pathogens that cause fatal disease in humans for which treatment is not available there are six such labs in the continent, none closer than maryland.
this picture does not show a huge robotic hand controlled by aliens seeking to steal earth women, although that's what it looks like: it shows part of the apparatus used at boston university to make detailed measurements of carbon dioxide in the city.
i'm a little late on this:here's a week-old xconomy article.
february 3, 2011 verizon offering iphone today
" the column did some rudimentary analysis of historic rainfall totals at the national weather service station in concord.
what i like, however, is this tidbit: there's a lot to like about both these services.
the science honor society will have booths featuring their research, there will be a barbeque and the new hampshire amateur astronomers (star geeks, not star nerds) hosting a star party starting at 8:30 pm on the athletic fields at north.
historically, these conservation measures have been very successful.
here's an ny times story about the event.
the only drawback is the full moon, which  will wash it out a bit.
nh: no tritium found in connecticut river the new hampshire division of public health services says water samples found no tritium in the connecticut river near the vermont yankee nuclear power plant.
my telegraph column today asks why no new hampshire airport runways have had to be renamed in recent memory, even though the magnetic north pole has moved enough that a runway in tampa, fla. had to change its numbers (which indicate the magnetic direction that runways point).
the location was selected because it is the best place on the planet to  determine how greenhouse gases have changed during the last 100,000 years.
and i mean crazy: it seems likely that humans were in new hampshire as early as 11,000 years ago, just as the glaciers were retreating.
directions are on their web site.
in total, energy produced from renewables is 77.15 percent of that from domestic crude oil production.
i've gently pointed out the advantages of broad end out and then met with amazed looks as the obvious becomes clear.
arrival of dsl ends homemade isp in tiny nh town
http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/diseases/hanta/hps/ those of us with woodpiles outside are used to clearing out mouse nests as we reach the rows as spring approaches.
however, based on observations, des biologists estimated the population to be in the hundreds.
the survey will continue this summer and is expected to be completed early next year, he said.
seabrook station uses dry storage.
it's under 4000 feet and can be reached by some pretty easy trails, but provides eye-popping, 360-degree views of the whites and lakes region.
november 3, 2011 talk about angry birds: burlington airport fights a gull problem the law of unintended consequences strikes again: vermont shut down a huge commercial composting operation because it was polluting nearby waters, so st. michael's college started up its own composting operation.
they're called kreuger biofilm chips, and are made by a german firm that specializes in wastewater treatment systems.
maine cdc recommends following the "no ticks 4 me" approach which includes: 1.
could be fun, if not exactly science.
you just know a bunch of them are going to tough it out.
the general idea that i learned is that we traipsed over the bering strait land bridge about 12,000 years ago, when sea levels were low because the ice age had sucked up so much water (so to speak), and then we spread like crazy.
it would also make it  harder to spot certain types of ballot-counting errors because overcounts  â€“ in which more votes are counted than ballots cast  â€“ would no longer be obvious.
the article is here, and is well worth a read.
nasa says that big solar flares are sending a geomagnetic storm our way, which may translate into northern lights tonight.
you can see the waves move across the country!
the argument, basically, is that you should go forward when there is more uncertainty because the driver can see better than when backing up, and there's more uncertainty when leaving a space (all those other folks zipping around the lot) than when entering it.
to say that the sun is 93,000,000 miles away or is 864,000 miles in diameter is completely meaningless to us ordinary people.
this is, of course, not good news for the cash-strapped postal service.
it's also part of the economic mix, as can be noted byplans in northeast maine to build a mill that would make about 300,000 tons of wood pellets a year, 70percent for export to europe, where biomass energy is well established.
it's got some impressive pictures; this is a huge operation that handles 16,000 tons of stuff each month.
the total capacity of all electricity generation in the six new england states is a bit under 30,000 megawatts (iso-new england, which runs the grid, also has 1,235 mw of imports on call and 1.260 mw of "demand response" in which big users like companies agree to cut back on hot days).
"when we do need new capacity, it is highly likely that we will look to natural gas plants instead of coal, especially if natural gas prices remain as low as projected," says (one energy executive).
that has drawn hunters.
or maybe he is running my license plate number through a web-search algorithm so that he can find my address and egg my house because he disagrees with the political sticker.
the move was part of a sustainability program at the university that takes advantage of human nature rather than technology: "the point of the program is to make trash even more personal by asking people to ponder just how much they're throwing out," says this new york times blog post.
the burlington free-press has a big look today at a contentious issue: what to do with rivers that were changed when tropical storm irene bullied through vermont.
these range from car shredders (which used magnetic drums that can be 8 feet wide and must weigh umpty-bazillion pounds) to coin-operated machines.
the stuxnet virus, often considered the first computer virus to flourish in the wild, was released 25 years ago this month, as i realized after readingthis ny times opinion piece - which notes that it was a mistake: (they wrote it) to safeguard the latest version of their heart-monitoring software from piracy.
february 6, 2011 wearing ice crampons to shovel the roof there is so much snow and ice on our roof that my wife and ice wore  microspikes - a sort of mini-ice-crampon - when we went up there yesterday to  shovel, to give ourselves more traction.
if you stood in that location for 1,000 years, it would keep moving back and forth.
car in rochester was stuck on the ice and the driver gunned it so hard and  so long, trying to get off the ice, making the tires spin so fast they caused  the car to catch fire.
answer: "you're a global-warming-ist!"
it's unclear whether this will jump-start the whole project.
(article can be read here)
hopefully the school will see the error of its ways and rename the event, which takes place from 5 pm to 7 pm, saturday, may 21, 2011 at the nhs north medium gymnasium.
factel represents an effort to demonstrate the latest technologies required to produce an upgraded version of comptel, which should be vastly more efficient and produce much sharper imagery.
at least, you should think that way if sports and politics were logical - but neither one is, so i suppose this argument is moot.
a story about the autopsy is here.
" "swd differs from other drosophilids, known collectively as  "vinegar flies," in that the apparatus with which the female lays  eggs in host material (the ovipositor) is serrated like a saw, which allows her  to cut her way into ripening and ripe fruit to lay her eggs, and is not  restricted, as are the other vinegar flies, to already rotting fruit.
one smithsonian commenter notes, by the way, that the spacing of teeth on the lower gear makes it appear that it won't mesh properly with the big gear, so maybe the logo isn't out of the woods yet.
for instance, says davis, breeders can now look at the dna "fingerprint" of strawberry plants to more easily breed those with enhanced flavor, aroma, or antioxidant properties.
from 1996 through 2010 she produced 38 young that were banded.
the deeper issue is whether this pattern is linked to the rapid changes  that global warming is causing in the arctic, particularly the drastic loss of  sea ice.
(a rallying cry that will take some massaging)
did steve jobs' alternative therapies shorten his life?
there are plenty of places where you can buy sheet music online in pdf form to download and print out or display on tablet pcs/ipads, including some variations like "big note" music - the equivalent of large print books for us weak-eyed older folks.
the surprising thing is that i have never seen the beetles before, even though they are big - about the size of a nickle - and handsome.
since then we've done three more statewide surveys (plus one in the north  country), all getting about the same results.
internet-connected refrigerators?
if the continental-scale carbon budget can be "closed," scientists will be in a better position to make climate forecasts, particularly with respect to year-to-year variability in the carbon budget caused by large-scale disturbances like droughts or forest fires.
a mule beer being startled by a remote camera.
precipitation was also above normal for 2010, with an annual total of 47.45 inches, making it the 24th wettest in the last 115 years.
geeks are knowledgeable and obsessed - a good definition of a geek is "somebody more interested in the workings of a topic than society thinks you should be.
" it's a reminder that every energy system has weaknesses, even tried-and-true hydropower and build-it-and-ignore-it photovoltaics.
(seestory about judge's ruling here.)
we are using a software "platform" called coveritlive to channel all their work into a single, streaming site.
here's a blog that argues, without much detail, that the lines could be buried return to menu march 1, 2011 dense snow on the ground yesterday's rain - 7/10ths of an inch where i live - compacted the 24 inches of snow on the ground in my yard into 20.5.
the improbable research blog is never afraid to ask the controversial question.
a real alien invasion makes it to the movies: asian longhorned beetles the cost of making document films has plummeted in the past decade, and there are more than you can shake a stick at (even a stick containing an invasive beetle), but here's another one to think about: "bugged: the race to eradicate the asian longhorned beetle."
addendum: check the discussion below my column (here) - it's pretty informative stuff, with just a soupcon of ranting.
humidity control one of the 'features' of florida are the extremes of heat and humidity, not to mention the bugs and lightning during the summer.
today i'm a cancer" and gets all huffy that  mean astronomers have ruined his day.
my wife, a veterinarian, liked the way they described that the bats were confirmed to be infected with g. descrucans, the wonderfully-named fungus, by the use of "a noninvasive fungal tape method."
built partly with $24 million in stimulus funds, it the first facility in the u.s. that can test to truly large wind turbine blades.
25 years of computer viruses (just finished measuring 4.5 inches of snow - 0.42 inches of melted water, so this is pretty fluffy light stuff.
i asked everybody that question at the end - is the trade-off worth it? - and all but one person said yes, that the loss of traditional privacy was balanced by all the technical benefits it brings us.
the moon was fabulous last night:
its 33 turbines would stretch roughly from dixville to dummer.
the concept of grape has been developed at the ssc over the last 15 years and in 2007 the first small-scale demonstration balloon flight took place using a single polarimeter to prove the concept.
rubik's cube isn't in the toy hall of fame the national toy hall of fame recently added playing cards and the board game life to its roster of winners.
my feet are warm, so i'm warm enough.
with the june 21 storm, we estimate that 100,000 customers would have never experienced an outage.
what difference does it really make?
last night at dinner my family got to discussing footnoes - my son is a math major and does all his work in a mathematics-symbol-heavy version ofdonald knuth's tex, and my wife and i were wondering how that worked.
but also boy, is the north country hurting for snow - loon  has been making snow like crazy but none of the tree-skiing runs are open  because there's so little natural snow, and a couple of its steeper runs were  closed so that (presumably, anyway) relatively sparse weekday crowds wouldn't  hurt them for the weekend throngs.
we're practically a snow desert this year my daughter
[hear a recording of tom lehrer himself performing the song, athttp://bit.ly/9nujcj] the ceremony will also include: â¢ "chemist in a coffee shop," a new mini-opera starring maria ferrante, roberta gilbert, thomas michel, and daniel rosenberg.
or maybe he thought the hybrid sticker was funny.
turkeys and waterfowl, on the other hand, can see blaze orange just fine, which is why it's less common among those hunters.
there are some who would be appalled that nuclear power is being discussed  on a column titled "green tech," but i'm not among them.
small, medium and large streams in each area will be examined at scales of centimeters to tens of meters.
the map from southern methodist university makes all of new hampshire unhelpfully green - as in having too low a deep-underground temperature to be feasible.
the scrubber produced one of new hampshire's most ironic environmental debates last year.
eventually, the "fist" that holds provincetown is going to become an island.
indeed, if politicians or special-interest groups say things that seem untrue or misleading, our duty as journalists is to quote them without comment or contradiction.
today is the 85th anniversary of robert goddard's launch of the first liquid-fueled rocket, on his aunt effie's farm just south of worcester, mass.
it's really a gigantic law mower, except it uses cross-cut rather than rotary blades.
but, as we are continually told, too much sun can be a problem.
they also rattle less when cars pass over them, compared to round ones.
'i have a dream' speech is covered by copyright
that's the argument in a story from greentech media about vermont electric cooperative, which has networked line crews (who usually have very accurate estimates about power restoration) and used gps to "get the cusomer talking to the lineman.
(spotted via the globe's always-interesting braniac blog.)
october 29, 2011 best nh-born chess player is in the pro us chess league josh friedel, from goffstown, who is the first nh-native chess grandmaster, is now head of thechicago blaze in the professional u.s. chess league.
january 30, 2011 a recession silver lining: lots less trash the city landfill in nashua has seen the amount of stuff left by residents  or picked up by trash haulers decline by 5,000 tons a year since 2007.
the rest would spill onto the ground, stinking up the joint and polluting the groundwater.
"daphnia's high gene number is largely because its genes are  multiplying, by creating copies at a higher rate than other species," said  project leader and cgb genomics director john colbourne.
we talk about coal a lot in new hampshire, thanks to the 460-mw merrimack station plant in bow, but the granite ridge natural gas plant in londonderry (owned by energy giant aes) is actually bigger (750 mw).
at least, that's the distance that its contagious microbes go after a sneeze.
removing rust through technology david asked me to write more about what i'm doing.
but you could vote for multiple people running against each other.
"when you dig down too deep, the water can't get out onto the flood plain," which is where rivers are supposed to go when they flood.
i've heard about solutions to this that are as simple as a metal shield enclosing the cards.
jim haney, professor of freshwater biology, helped with cultures of daphnia, which are common in new hampshire lakes and ponds.
i'm going to be in harvard tonight watching the ig nobel awards from the balcony of sanders theater and you aren't - hahahahaha!
shepard,  the first american sent into space, was the fifth human to walk on the moon,  and famously took in a round of golf along the way.
unh space scientists hitch rides with japan and europe some news from unh (which includes a horrible forced acronym: "cross scale coupling in plasma universe or scope")
this approach can lead to model parameters that are more representative of the full spectrum of vegetation and climate conditions, and to more robust estimates of ecosystem carbon fluxes over broad regions."
"this genome gives biologists and ecologists the tools they need to do genomic analysis on this organism from an ecological perspective."
my morning cocorahs measurement found that i'd gotten 2 1/2 inches of snow, which melted down to 0.27 inches of water - roughly a 10-to-1 ratio, which is "typical" for snow, within a large variation.
it also discusses how his controversial liver transplant (he jetted to another state where he could, basically, jump the queue and get ahead of other patients) might have actually harmed him.
maybe i'll set the alarm for 3 a.m. or so, and see what i can see.
liu's unique contribution to this effort was to independently document the locations of specific sequences called ribosomal gene clusters on the chromosomes themselves, using an advanced microscopic technique known as fluorescent in situ hybridization.
i chose the lower one to report, but it seems pretty arbitrary.
more if you do various cookie-cleaning browser tasks, although i think we're trying to squelch that october 19, 2011 bitcoin, the digital-only currency, crashes i haven't tried to use bitcoin - anybody out there have any experience with it?
my wife decided to give it a try, purchasing a quart at milford paint.
"a textbook licensing model of this kind has the potential for significant universitywide savings, while increasing educational opportunities for more people that can help grow our economy."
just emailadam@makeitlabs.com
for more information on white pine needlecast, go to: http://www.maine.gov/doc/mfs/whitepineneedlecast.htm june 11, 2011 network breaches are inevitable says depressing globe story the globe's hiawatha bray has a long, depressing story today that says, basically, all computer networks and their data are vulnerable and getting more so: "sntivirus and other commercial security software products may be adequate against the kind of amateur hackers who vandalized websites in the internet's early days, but they often fail to detect the custom-made attack programs, or malware, created by today's organized crime gangs and foreign intelligence agencies.
millisecond power pulses make for a super de-icer dartmouth engineering professor has developed a de-icing system called  pulse electro-thermal de-icing that sounds great: petd uses a thin, electrically-conductive film applied to the surface of,  for example, an airplane or a windshield or almost any other object in need of  ice protection.
i watch people arranging the trays as they sit down.
since i know what the outside temperature will be from the weather forecast and i know what the starting temperature will be, i can estimate how much heat will be required to be comfortable.
since satellites began tracking it in 1979, the ice on the arctic ocean's  surface in the bellwether month of september has declined by more than 30  percent.
there is a push in new hampshire's statehouse to expand parents' ability to sidestep childhood vaccinations on a whim - i mean, if they have personal or philosophical or religious or paranormal or whatever objections.
(1 mw is roughly enough to power 1,000 homes).
i was experiencing sensory overload all the time.
the telegraph is doing all it can to hold on.
(yet, we have a sick cat in the house.
i was absolutely thrilled when i was able to go to guided missile schools when i joined the navy.
it was pretty surprising: 20 percent.
"rock snot", the freshwater algae that can turn streams slimy, has been found in connecticut for the first time,reports fly rod and reel magazine.
unh to study gamma rays with a balloon called grape (wonderful acronym) by david sims, unh news service: beginning sunday, september 17, 2011 at nasa's launch facility in fort sumner, new mexico, space scientists from the university of new hampshire will attempt to send a balloon up to 130,000 feet with a one-ton instrument payload to measure gamma rays from the crab pulsar, the remains of a supernova explosion that lies 6,500 light years from earth.
but biological control is so potent that it's still worth trying.
*there is room for debate on that first issue, but not on the second.
new hampshire astronomical society astrophotographer  gardner gerry will show what equipment to use and how to use it.
recommended for ages 8+, children under 13 must be  accompanied by an adult.
it is bound to be an escaped pet of some kind.
the system is studying the issue and expects a report next year detailed how they will factor in efficiency programs (such asbetter buildings nh) when deciding, say, whether closed power plants need to be replaced at all.
(smaug was no. 7, behind scrooge mcduck and jed clampett, but ahead of mr. monopoly and c. montgomery burns, among others.)
talking to people having to make adjustments led him into work figuring out why the changes were happening.
however, the care definitely burst into flame and it was definitely sparked  (so to speak) by the mindlessly aggressive attempts to get off the ice, so  regardless of physics nitpicking, the fire marshal was right in the overall  sense.
winners get prizes and the inevitable t-shirts, plus money for science education at their schools.
here's an ny times story about the topic.
july 14, 2011 morse code lives, at least for one night (.... -- .-.
you can be an art geek if you study the composition of paint or the mechanics of brushstrokes; a harmonica geek if you collect the instruments and learn the history, whether or not you play one; and, of course, a computer geek if you understand how the machines work beyond ctl-alt-del and want to learn more.
its new hampshire population is so small that officials won't say where the state's only group lives, for fear that the news would draw exotic-pet fanciers and/or haters, with bad results.
of course, lack of proof is not proof of a lack, but when it comes to invasives we'll take what we can get.
trying to turn pages in sheet music, having them fall off the piano or get stuck, is so annoying that i can't believe the computer world hasn't replaced it.
it's when you have icy rain that it really helps, i think.
the globe's hiawatha bray writes about proposals by google and amazon to let people store copies of their digital music online, so they can listen to it from any device.
it was ironic because psnh fought against the project when it was proposed in the early 2000s and environmentalists forced it on them.
when i was young it was surprising when a car hit 100,000 miles; i had a friend with a picture of the odometer rollover in his living room!
they called it brain, and it was basically a wheel-clamp for pcs.
october 8, 2011 a new england tradition: marking property lines with blazes in 'witness trees'
swd can readily feed in
although last year was somewhat drier, infection levels continued to remain unexpectedly high, resulting now in the premature shedding of the one-year-old needles, the forest pathologist said.
safety belt use there's a new statistic on automotive safety belt use in new hampshire.
by coincidence, yesterday my wife and i were to new york state, which has had a similar law for three years, to pick up our son from college and i saw billboards for a public-information program on this very topic - called dontmovefirewood.org.
systems of watertown, mass.
february 23, 2011 a jaffrey firm that "de-manufactures" old electronics, for a  profit the union-leader has an interview with the founder of a jaffrey firm called  e-waste recyclers llc that is making a business out of recycling electronic  junk - pcs, phones, etc.
the ny times' green blog has an item about it here (i assume you need a subscription to read it).
but he says this  isn't a free state project idea.
i've also found it  quite interesting to learn the water equivalence in this year's snowfall - it  gives a real quantitative kick to the vague "this snow is heavy, that snow  is light" feeling i've always had.
apparently i was too negative yesterday when i said that mapping of geothermal energy potential by southern methodist university cast doubt on earlier claims that the area around conway, n.h., in the eastern portion of the white mountains, had the best possiblity east of the mississippi.
here's the epa information about their proposal.
landfills are flat, have no high-rise obstacles or trees to block the sun,  and can't hold heavy stuff like buildings, so using them for a money-making  (sort of) pv plant makes a lot of sense.
it's got a really excellent closing, too: "the current german o104 situation … has grimly served to remind us of the frailty of life and the wonders of good plumbing.
so i guess it worked.
check out the video showing  it de-icing a windshield.
they're not biased in favor of one point of view or one candidate - "they're biased in favor of people having an opinion."
vt. / 166 - 211 days * mass. / 122 - 139 days *
last year, infected trees in and around western, central, and southern maine were losing their lower, weaker branches to the disease.
easton, who now lives near canaan, n.h., filed an amicus brief arguing that "law enforcement use of gps without a warrant violates americans' reasonable expectations of privacy.
there's plenty of opposition up north, where the bulk of the new routes would be placed - e.g., here's a blog calledbury the northern pass.
the data, which are poorly understood, will be a critical new element in the next assessment by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc).
i suspect the "multiple devices" aspect of the site which will draw viewers, as the era of the personal computer slowly draws to a close.
it seems a bunch of startups are trying to be billboard 2.0, mixing sales figure with various vague social-media and/or download parameters: "the ultimate chart tracks how music is shared, streamed and purchased across more than 100 different platforms, with each outlet weighted by its perceived importance.
the only nearby example of alternative voting for government office is in cambridge, mass., which uses instant-runoff voting for city elections.
these issues exist with or without vermont yankee in service, but generally (but not always) tend to be more widespread and severe without vermont yankee."
it includes the number - an inch of rain weighs 5.2 pounds per square foot  of level ground - that i didn't include inan article last week about the weight  of snow, much to the annoyance of a number of readers who wanted to know how  i'd gotten my dat.
we're heard them say that neighbors with photovoltaic systems had more production in a day than they had in a month," he said.
it found  statistically significant increases in childhood luekemia within a certain  distance of power lines - although the disease is still very rare - but   cautioned that the numbers were so small that you shouldn't take the results  seriously, partly because there's no way known to science that the lines could  be causing leukemia.
our snow was was pretty fluffy: 8-1 water/snow ratio at my house, 16.5 inches of snow fell in yesterday's storm, the first  decent one of the winter.
granite state skeptics handed out cold reading "bingo cards" at john edwards talk-to-the-dead show the granite state skeptics put together an intriguing method of informing the public about a bit of hooh-hah - a few of them gathered outside the palace theater in manchester on tuesday night before the start of the show of john edwards, whose shtick is "communicating with the dead," and handed out "bingo cards" for cold-reading terms, plus material explaining how cold reading works.
not everybody is thrilled by this study, as i note: some fear it's a  backhanded way to return a hunting/trapping season on bobcats, which ended in  1988.
math professor who wrote novels on the physics of golf several years ago i wrote about francis scheid, a then-86-year-old former math professor who had written four self-published novels around the mathematics and physics of golf, thus combining two loves.
november 8, 2011 forensic study finds that "human" remains often aren't nice story in the ny times (subscription probably required) today about how forensic study of grisly human remains often finds that they are actually animal bones.
other groups, notably cavers, think it would be going overboard (as i notedin a column last year) because we don't know whether the disease is actually being spread by the bats themselves, traveling here and there, rather than via contaminated boots or caving equipment.
there's a big fight in new hampshire over a proposal to build about 40  miles of high-voltage dc power lines (which use enormous towers) over  relatively untouched north country hills, while the rest of the system would  run over existing rights of way where other towers exist.
but today it launched bostonglobe.com, a $3.99/week site which "will combine the newspaper's print stories with breaking news on a site designed for customers who want premium content they can read on multiple devices, from computers to tablets to smartphones.
they still need some helpers, particularly in the manchester area for the merrimack river.
i just left my car in the telegraph lot with the wipers raised, although  with this fluffy snow it may not matter much.
february 2011 february 1, 2011 last ipv4 blocks auctioned; the net has to grow up now the last blocks of ipv4 addresses have been auctioned off (release here;  slashdot item here).
** unh sociologist larry hamilton got into climate change work out of sociological research decades ago in the arctic, where the climate is already changing.
the event starts friday night the observatory open, a skywatch event and a program titled "50 years of us human space flight".
my column today has more on icecode, the startup using technology from a dartmouth college professor that sends very short pulses of high power through heating elements to separate built-up ice from surfaces.
precipitation was also above normal for 2010, with an annual total of  47.45 inches, making it the 24th wettest in the last 115 years.
the fight is ramping up over a proposal to construct a 1,200-mw high voltage dc power line to bring more hydropower down from quebec through nh to points south.
i wrote an advance, with photos of the new wood-fired boiler heating system at mascenic high school, for the telegraph:you can peruse it here.
november 26, 2011 australia may remove benefits from parents who don't immunize their kids austrlia, which has seen a particularly successful burst of anti-vaccine advocates, is considering a plan under which parents who do not have their children fully immunized will lose family tax benefits, which can reach aus$2,100 (about $2,050) per kid.
for the past few years, damage to eastern white pine foliage has been observed throughout the state.
the station will allow voice transmission and morse code on thousands of  frequencies of various wavelengths.
it found that the microscopic freshwater  crustacean contains at least 30,907 genes, compared to approximately 25,000 in  humans.
it cannot spread through the air: healthy bats did not pick up the infection when housed near to, but physically isolated from, diseased bats.
as long as there's somebody who understands it, of course.
the launch is highly dependent on weather and wind conditions, and the launch window closes at the end of next week.
yet maybe it's not, if you're prepared with a good network.
so far, i've taken 5 truckload of firewood over to the temporary woodpile after cutting to length and splitting in place.
hence they tend to be big superhighway projects, with just a couple of "off-ramps.") february 10, 2011 any rap with "sohcahtoa" in it is ok by me
"you're losing as much as 90 percent of your input watts in heat," said joe murdoch, a professor emeritus of electrical engineering from unh who has written a number of books about lighting.
is it possible to have fake homeopathic medicine - that is, medicine which pretends to be homeopathic but actually contains useful amounts of an ingredient?
there's a worldwide celebration (yuri's night), considerable what-iffing (what if the us had done it first?) and plenty of where-do-we-go-from-here ("forget space flight: it's just a dream")
the 5th annual formula hybrid competition is may 1-4 at new hampshire international speedway, with 33 college/industry teams from around the world.
arguably, more is known about the ecology and stress biology of the water flea than any other animal.
this was the first widely-reported ufo abduction report in the united states.
if you haven't been, check the fine video by a n.y. video guy named zach ornitz:see it here.
says wollheim, "very few studies have tried to understand processes across these different scales to determine, for example, how does carbon storage measured in individual stream reaches relate to carbon storage of an entire river network?" insight into how nature works at this level is necessary to understand both whole-system dynamics as well as to manage human impacts on entire watersheds.
the major concerns, judging from the burlington free-press story (read it here), were financial rather than technical, but they were overcome by the belief that upgrading the "dumb pipes" of the current power grid is a necessary step to holding down rates in the long term.
it will feature the state climatologist, a city planner, and a unh professor with a statistics expertise, who will discuss "climate change in nh."
pictures like this are why people think the moon is a lot closer to the earth than it really is.
i know this because his family called me after the story appeared.
as for me, i was out on the souhegan river this morning, gathering water samples in crisp, gorgeous 60 degree weather.
from the posting: "during the sixteen years the station was in operation, the shoreline moved 150 feet and began undercutting the two seaward towers.
it certainly has enough intellectual, business and ethical complications to keep any observer fascinated for a lifetime.
here's the whole article, with many facts to chew on.
now it's like seeing a deer - nice, worth slowind down slightly, but nothing major.
miami herald story here.
gittell and two colleagues have written new chapters on sustainability and business and public policy that weren't in the original version of "exploring business" by karen collins, one of the two digital books used in the "introduction to business" course.
there may be others i've  missed.
if the vancouver canucks win the 7th game of their series with the bruins by a margin of 11 runs or less, they will take home the stanley cup even though they scored fewer goals.
as i said, people's concerns must have some basis in  fact to force public action.
the station will allow voice transmission and morse code on thousands of frequencies of various wavelengths.
whatever your political slant, you can find a source that will reinforce your view of the world.
approximately half of the textbooks sold at the unh bookstore have the digital option, which saves students an average of 60 percent off the price of the printed book, the store said.
** keene city planner rhett lamb gave an interesting example of planning for life in a climate-changed world: culverts.
considerthis venn diagram, which explains the difference.
as moderator, i will ensure that there's no discussion about (ugh) politics itself, just the mechanisms, strengths and failings of what has become a major part of american life.
the flow of water creates a charge, just as it does in thunderheads as water droplets rise and fall on wind currents.
lots of rain means lots of mushrooms means lots of mushroom poisonings i think the headline says it all.
yet if he had voted for both of them his ballot would have been tossed out as invalid â even though it would have been an accurate reflection of his wishes.
… their talks were framed, many said, by the recent draft document by the intergovernmental panel for climate change that links man-made climate change to the extreme weather conditions in much of the world in recent years.
my telegraph column today, with accompanying video (oh, what a brave new world we newspaperman are floundering in!)
bpw is board of public works.
i hadn't realized how much of a difference this change made until today, however, when i wrote a story about an upcoming public hearing to help set federal vaccination policy.
all those small new england states look the same when viewed from afar, i guess ...
one audience member, a plastics ( see comment below, presumably from him) engineer and business owner, started off his question with a diatribe against global warming because the speakers had touted nuclear power's carbon-neutral position.
the n.h. health and human services folks, who are very pro-vaccination because they actually know what they're talking about, say vaccine avoidance doesn't appear to be a cause of this outbreak.
he did pretty well, considering - living an active life for another 6 years - but you have to wonder whether he'd still be around if he'd gone under the knife more quickly.
here's a better link for the conference.
with a focus on cosmology and exciting new instruments being developed, his presentation will explore what astronomers expect to learn about the early origins of the universe as we achieve the ability to reach back to the first stars and first galaxies formed in the universe.
it's pretty easy when dealing with unfamiliar materials or dimensional factors to not realize you could be so far wrong.
talented reporters and staff are stressed.
we oldsters reminisced about what a pain it was to make footnotes in the old typewriter days - you had to estimate the number of lines, count lines upward, determine when to stop the body, etc.
this control has an outside temperature sensor that modifies the furnace response to a call for heating.
there have been some mistakes
he graduated from unh in 1974.
fairpoint uses draft horses to lay fiber optic vtdigger.org, an online journalism site for vermont, has a profile of a 1,700-pound drafthorse used to lay fiber-optic cable for fairpoint in northeast vermont.
the che report said new hampshire was the lowest in the country in terms of percentage of legislators with an associate degree or higher, although it qualified the statement because information about educational attainment for a large number of our huge statehouse body wasn't online.
but i don't feel strongly enough toâ defriend just yet.
let's see, a million miles in 21 years is about 48,000 miles a year.
the cofounder of reddit and fellow at harvard's university's center for ethics alleged hacked into mit to "free" 4 million scientific papers fromjstor, which provides access to a gazilion journals and papers from subscriber research institutions.
i covered that show years ago.
just don't expect to do much more than cover your costs, though.
the interesting thing to me, however, is the tone of the story: it regards these people who legally maniulated the lottery through knowledge - instead of hoping for blind luck - as being unpleasantly tricky or even downright thieves.
you can see video at the company web site, linked above.
it's now up to 75% although past years percentage wasn't mentioned.
to "hurry up and cross the %$!#* road so you'll stop blocking my commute!"
make something friday isn't an anti-capitalist, back-to-nature screed that could bring the economy crashing down.
it's certainly going to weaken the trees," william ostrofsky, mfs forest pathologist, said.
another drawback is that  you have to buy the rain gauge, which isn't cheap - $25 or so.
what i take issue with is polarized line cords, those two wire cords with one of the plugs being wider than the other, used in battery chargers or other appliances that have plastic cases.
here's an nh magazine story from earlier this year, with a nice picture of doyle's bigfoot suit, bought at the iparty store in keene.
but you can't do it without those little tubes called pipettes.
this represents a new technology that may prove valuable for many nasa space applications.
it will be the subject of a hearing tuesday.
maybe it means ... er, something else.
rocketry remembered i read a lot about goddard's rocket experiments in early issues of pop science/mechanics and other magazines from the 30's and 40's.
vermont yankee uses pools, and has more fuel stored than at those damaged reactors.
usually the dredging is done in the fall, after shellfish season and tourist season are over, but the navy wants to do it in august so it can launch the destroyer sooner.
the conclusion:  from soup to nuts, including the impact of making those big batteries, even an  electric car that gets its juice from a nasty coal-fired plant is equivalent to  a conventional car that gets 45 mpg.
april 12, 2011 from a classroom to a mayan burial site my telegraph column this week is about a nashua guy who was intrigued by an archaeology class in high school, and a decade and a half later is part of ongoing work in northeast guatemala that recently uncovered the oldest royal mayan tomb ever found.
a study that says "we found a connection but it probably doesn't mean anything" is bound to confuse everybody.
the washington post has a piece today (read it here) on the future of  coal-fired electricity in the u.s. that examines it largely from a financial  standpoint and concludes that as things currently stand, little or no new  coal-fired power is likely to be built.
i've been out of town for a few days, so i wanted to get a snow-water-equivalent measurement of the snow in the yard, since the warm weekend lowered the levels from 22 inches to about 14 inches.
he will explore stream metabolism â how carbon is produced, consumed and vented into the atmosphere â as well as nutrient retention and the effects of predators and herbivores on stream metabolism and nutrient cycling.
the consortium focused  first on sequencing the wild woodland strawberry because its cultivated  cousins, all hybrids, are far more complex.
my wife talked to a human; they yanked the purchase and issued her a new card.
the most interesting choices, however, are these two: * live within 50 miles of a nuclear power plant (pressurized water reactor) (0.0009 mrem) * live within 50 miles of a coal-fired electrical utility plant (0.03 mrem)
no credit card or medical data was breached, or so says  seacoast radiology.
(except it's supposed to be cloudy - argh!!!!)
antivax didn't seem to play a role in whooping cough outbreak
here's the article, with lots of links.
apparently the river needs to be dredged in order for large ships to be launched, including a $1 billion destroyer nearing completion.
i've got 25 inches of snow in the yard  now with a lot more supposed to fall.
if you want an adventure then try self-publishing.
saturday admission prices are $15 adult, $13 seniors/student, $11 children and groups of 15 or more.
the topic is "the future of food" and i hope we'll have a good mix of gm food fans, raw food advocates, growers and buyers, localvores and localvore skeptics showing up in the audience to talk with our three panelists (a professor, an organic farmer and a food buyer for the common man restaurant chain).
three physics graduate students are working on the current flight as part of their ph.d. studies and several undergraduate students have also been involved in the flight preparations.
this approach, known as approval voting, is the simplest form of various alternatives to traditional voting patterns.
being alive minus the answers to the issues you've resolved all through your entire report is a serious case, and the kind which may have badly affected my entire career if i hadn't come across your site "looking out throughout the search engines and seeing thoughts which are not pleasant" … if that doesn't describe the internet, i don't know what does.
they've got an open house every monday and thursday evening.
i've had years of depending on daily updates from my favorite newspaper and that is threatened.
virtually all the calf deaths during the study were due to winter ticks."
the ny times has a storytoo.
they're not quite as god-awful as milfoil, but they blanket the surface with mats so thick you can't row through them, doing a number on other waterlife.
there are complicated economic arguments and environmental arguments about the plan (is "big hydro" green or not?), but i noticed from tuesday's protests at concord that the anti-powerline folks argue that the lines would increase childhood leukemia.
i wrote about the eddy current effect from the same facility back in may 2009, but the friggin' item isn't linkable: i can only find it via a search query that can't be linked.
the latest plan calls for a 4.2-megawatt plant near springfield, which would be more than twice the size of new england's biggest pv site.
if the room is warm, we think the globe is warming
(spotted via treehugger)
he is a smart guy, computer literate and good at his job.
the oil drum the present rise in oil and gasoline prices are being blamed on everything from the north african political changes to speculators to greed of the oil companies.
i've noticed quite a few 'chain letters' on facebook lately.
admittedly, it's kind a pain at times, since the measurements should be  done by 8 a.m..
i learned an awful lot from doing the experiments, far more practical experience than i ever got in our tiny school system.
tussle over electric smart meters continues in maine center maine power, the biggest electricity utility in maine, is spending big bucks on expansion of the power grid because it wants to use more wind power - maine is already the northeast's leader in wind and likely to get better.
they look like a rectangle with two corners cut off to make a six sided tray.
the projects are all pretty small by science standards, just a few thousands bucks each, usually covering a small part of overall research.
i'm still writing it, but i'm rather proud of the metaphor that i open with:
nine of the top ten are obvious (0000, 1212, 2580 (the central spine of the 10-number phone keyboard), 1111, etc.) … but one of them is 5683.
the power supply can be a cheap battery charger capable of a couple of amp output.
more online paywalls - this time for the telegraph the telegraph has joined the legion of newspapers hoping they can make money by charging people to read content online.
we used a state issued brass gauge to measure from the eye socket to the end of the carapace.
psychic fair didn't forsee that its hotel would shut  suddenly!
the boston globe has another big story on the process, including the fact that some lottery officials looked the other way, or even assisted groups in mass-buying tickets, because the sales looked good.
if you've never stopped by the first robotics regionals, being held this weekend at the verizon wireless arena in manchester, you should.
i'm not sure if they'll have any of their most famous display, of various mit hacks - including the fake cop car that was placed on top of the mit dome.
a single chart shows the staggering amount of energy we waste
the session got a little testy at the end, with pro- and anti-nuclear folks interrupting each other and shattering the desired air of genteel powerpoint academic discourse, leading an organizer to take the unusual step of insisting that the institute wasn't taking sides.
a case in point: this morning at 7:30 i was wading around in the crystal-clear souhegan river, watching the sun glint off the water, the songbirds flit and fly, the minnows swim - while collecting water in a glass bottle and a little plastic bag, measuring the temperature with a thermomter hooked to my ankle, and generally feeling pretty pleased with myself.
the union of concerned scientists says in a new report that farmers markets have grown 20 times over four decades and has the potential to be a major job creator, although out financial and regulatory policies have been created to help big agriculture, which holds things back.
here is psnh's take on it.
ranked-choice ballots let voters rank the randidates, from first choice to last.
here's a snippet: the moose may be a canadian icon, but in the island of newfoundland it is an alien, introduced a century ago when local leaders reckoned their presence would attract hunters and tourists to what was a struggling british colony.
launch is slated for january 2017.
all of us have built a lot of stuff in a lot of floodplains, with the expectation that the situation will never change for the worse.
then you can  writhe in envy or shake your head in disbelief at such a waste of effort - you  choose.
my 'fix' is to use an ordinary spring-wound timer to run the furnace for some period of time to give me the amount of heating i want.
so-and-sos, partly because they generate a natural antifreeze, usually glycol.
one thing you don't do is give up on them in some anti-mercury move, because the extra power consumed by wildly inefficient incandescent bulbs releases more mercury into the air from coal-burning power plants than exists in the cfl bulb, on average - as i noted here.
i spent a lovely morning on the river - and for a good cause the best kind of volunteering involves doing something you lenjoy, so you get pleasure as well as that lovely feeling of self-righteousness which drives most volunteering.
one advantage of web publishing over old newspaper publishing is being able to respond immediately to reader feedback.
the drum spins at an impressive 3,000 rpm, generating a magnetic field of such strength that it instantly creates an opposing field in even the most crumpled of moxie cans, sending them flying off the adjacent conveyor belt into sorting bins.
comic books its been a looooong time since i read any comic books - not since john romita's stint at spider-man, and i mean romita senior - but i enjoy keeping track of the industry as a weird microcosm of the whole entertainment/information/media universe.
as i said, people's concerns must have some basis in fact to force public action.
the boston globe visited the cryptozoology museum in portland, maine, that seems to exist somewhere between true believer land and skeptic city, dealing with the coelacanth as well as the yeti.
the final outcome of the race won't be known until the following day when the ballots are scanned and all of voters' rankings are extrapolated, kleppner said.
bryson correctly states that the average colonial house required 15 to 20 cords of wood a year for heating and cooking.
for new hampshire, the item concerned ticks and moose.
the creation of nsf's macrosystems biology program follows the agency's ambitious national ecological observatory network (neon), which when completed in 2016 will provide the first continental network of data-gathering stations.
the fact that a wild cat traveled 1,500 miles raises hopes of people who think they've seen mountain lions (a.k.a. cougars or panthers) in new hampshire.
precipitation volunteers make fascinating reading in a hurricane i'm a volunteer precipitation-measurer for the community collaborative rain/hail/snow network (cocorahs) run by the national weather service.
the wacky, geeky, do-it-yourselfy folks at makeitlabs, the state's first "maker space" with tools and expertise for members to use, are holding a halloween party on saturday, and they're have a pumpking-carving on thursday night.
"i'm not sure how heavy the drum is, but two guys can't pick it up," said white.
unh oversees drilling of two-mile-long antarctic ice core from unh news service: the west antarctic ice sheet (wais) divide project closed out its fifth drilling season on friday, jan. 28, after reaching a depth of 3,331 meters â about two miles â thereby deriving the deepest ice core ever drilled by u.s. researchers.
fish & wildlife reports how climate change is affecting each of the 50 states (ticks and moose for us) the u.s. fish & wildlife service has been running a series of articles, one for each state, highlighting adverse effects of "increasing climate change" (wow - a government agency that doesn't mince words!).
read the whole article here - it's worth the time.
i await the news that dna analysis has shown that the easter bunny is  actually a groundhog.
they have another plant in the works in pennsylvania.
lyme disease is treatable, and the majority of patients recover after receiving appropriate therapy.
"when we do need new capacity, it is highly likely that we will look  to natural gas plants instead of coal, especially if natural gas prices remain  as low as projected," says (one energy executive).
but they're still trying: free flow power of boston is testing 6,000-pound, 10-foot-tall turbines,which look like jet engines, on the floor of the mississippi river in a whole bunch of locations:globe story here.
verizon iphone is a great move, or a lousy one verizon wireless is expected to announce today or possibly later this week  will start handling iphones in february.
here's the press information; the museum show will be on display all year.
it's not clear what this will do to the debate over whether caves should be closed to humans, out of fear they spread the fungus on clothing or equipment.
you can wander in any time and stay as long as you like.
the issues was summarized well by one attendee, who said it boiled down to control - that technology has lessened our ability to control other people's knowledge about us, our habits, our whereabouts, our anything.
the gas is, says the wikipedia article, a "broad-spectrum poison" that it "forms a complex bond with iron in the mitochondrial cytochrome enzymes, thus preventing cellular respiration.
there is, actually, some news coming out of the ceremony: the association, which represents daily and non-daily newspapers, will allow digital-only journalism publications to join - which means patch.com, with a half-dozen bureaus in the state.
as if nuclear engineering wasn't complicated enough speaking of local power plants, seabrook station's attempt to get its 20-year license renewed early has run into an obstacle: the discovery that some below-ground concrete has been degraded by seawater, leading to leaks and fear of corrosion.
this, she explained to me, means they put scotch tape on the bats, pulled it off, then examined the sticky side under a microscope.
here's the schedule.
improbable research after dark - goofy science galore!
earle richâ â â â â â â â â â â â â â â happy in mont vernon, nh august 21, 2011 boston has two - two! - professional chess teams.
their main job on hot summer days, when power usage hits its peak (the switch away from electric heat and the addition of air conditioning means that new england no longer uses the most power in winter), is to decide how much energy will be needed that day and whether they'll need to buy any on the open market, or call in any demand response (contracted arrangements under which companies ramp back their usage when needed, in return for lower rates).
it's more bearable for jobs than for most such folks because he was special, but nonetheless that attitude is pretty damn hard to swallow.
burlington, vermont, used a similar system for a few elections until voters tossed it out,as i've noted before; while a new hampshire legislator wanted this state to consider adopting it here - an idea that has been shelved in committee and seems unlikely to go anywhere.
high-voltage dc can carry electricity with great efficiency, losing much less power along the way than ac lines, but it's difficult and expensive to switch the power to the ac needed by our systems.
here's an example: wisconsin researchers are testing waspsp from china in an attempt to limit the spread of emerald ash borer, which is perhaps the most destructive of all invasive insects threatening america's forests at the moment.
whether "smart meters" will lead to hard-to-spot rate hikes is another matter, of course - one that isn't crazy to worry about.
increased melt due to climate change has the potential to substantially alter both the magnitude and timing of freshwater discharge.
i wonder if it's legal in new hampshire?
unh news: energy 'ribbon' in heliosphere due to galactic magnetic field (maybe) from unh news service: in a paper to be published in the april 10 issue of the astrophysical journal, scientists on nasa's interstellar boundary explorer (ibex) mission, including lead author nathan schwadron and others from the university of new hampshire, isolate and resolve the mysterious "ribbon" of energy and particles the spacecraft discovered in the heliosphere â the huge bubble that surrounds our solar system and protects us from galactic cosmic rays.
to use an example which helped prod mcguire to draft the bill,  consider november's election for governor, which had three candidates.
some  immigrants and travelers hail from countries where vaccination is not routine.
whether "smart meters" will lead to hard-to-spot rate hikes is  another matter, of course - one that isn't crazy to worry about.
read the story here.
but that doesn't mean there isn't a lot of water there: i melted it down this morning to 3.2 inches of water equivalence, or darn near 2-1.
boston.com site free, which will "include summaries and headlines of stories on bostonglobe.com, but you must be a subscriber to read those stories in full.
shepard, the first american sent into space, was the fifth human to walk on the moon, and famously took in a round of golf along the way.
(this test indicates that comcast nodes aren't ipv6 ready, as the blue bar shows.)
another big solar plant on a mass. landfill 5.6-megawatt photovoltaicd plant - more than 2 times the output of all the  pv in new hampshire combined, by my estimation - is planned to cover a closed  landfill in canton, mass. (read the globe story here.)
we crinkle up newspapers as packing for tender items.
by the time the apollo program made it clear the soviets were being outdone, he added, news of the space race had disappeared." using the infinite corridor and toilet paper, students break paper-folding record from a story in boston.com: using more than two miles of toilet tissue and one infinite corridor at mit, a group from st. mark's school claim to have wiped out the world record for folding paper sunday.
but the music companies hated the idea and sued mp3.com into a coma.
this isn't quite as much of a change as it seems, since virtually all the hydropower and much of the wood-burning power has existed for years.
that is, power is proportional to the swept area of rotating blades, in technical terms.
gerry will show what equipment to use and how to use it.
you'll want to built your own version, i guarantee  it.
computers that ran their program, plus this new bit of code, would stop working after a year, though they cheerfully provided three telephone numbers, against the day.
he has sponsored a bill, hb240, which would tweak ballots for local  and state elections in new hampshire by "allowing voters to vote for  multiple candidates for an office."
check out the nasa site here.
let's take a moment to recognize some true heroes - a term that is bandied about far too loosely.
among these effects, it appears that carbon particles, or soot, generated in the flame are key for its response to electric fields.
here's the gm website for the spark.
i haven't gotten to the point of measuring the temperature, as serious compost-pile folks, like those who run commercial operations or the huge piles at the landfill (those guys sometimes have to lower the temperature in their piles so it won't kill the microbes), but it was still pretty neat.
the globe has an article about research today (read it here) which notes that the nao is proving hard to predict: the link between the north atlantic oscillation and snowfall is intriguing because the oscillation can go into decades-long periods where it is dominated by a positive or negative phase.
comcast begins ipv6 deployment comcast, the biggest cable provider in new hampshire (it's probably our biggest isp and is one of the biggest telephone providers) has begun deploying native ipv6 in "selected markets",according to the company announcement.
who wants to store your work online if you can only get to part of it without paying more?
no news is very good news when you're hunting invasive bugs maine forest service had a good news release today:
math professor who wrote novels on the physics of golf several years ago i wrote about francis scheid, a then-86-year-old former  math professor who had written four self-published novels around the  mathematics and physics of golf, thus combining two loves.
after stripping out the secondary, the transformer makes a nice 1+ kw transformer for a spot welder with a couple of secondary turns or, with more windings, any voltage you want.
included are letters from the engineering bureau of the war department of the confederate states of america that frowned on the whole thing, saying that he exaggerated the power output of engines and misstated the role of air resistance.
organized by the science humor magazine annals of improbable research (air), in cooperation with several harvard student groups, it features genuine nobel laureates to hand prizes to the winners, including dudley herschbach (chemistry, 1986), rich roberts (physiology or medicine, 1993), jack szostak (physiology or medicine, 2009), roy glauber (physics, 2005), eric maskin (economics, 2007), peter diamond (economics, 2010) and louis ignarro (physiology or medicine, 1998).
dog trained to sniff out invasive mussels if dogs can be trained to sniff out contraband, why can't they find invasive zebra and quagga mussels?
it has multiple generations in a year, so that populations can build up and be  quite large by harvest.
" contact the division of plant industry, nh dept. of agriculture, markets  & food, 271-2561, orpiera.siegert@agr.state.nh.us.
creating 'gas stations' for electric vehicles is a non-trivial job my column today talks about the chicken-and-egg difficulty of creating a network of charging stations for electric vehicles before there are any out there to use it.
it has also been fertile ground for pseudo-science.
here's the braniac piece.
quintet of birch trees fallen at once a birch-tree star: five full-grown trees knocked down at once this picture shows the scene at a campsite in the adirondacks where my family stayed last week.
the celebration will occur at the institute for the study of earth, oceans, and space (eos) in morse hall on the durham campus from noon to 3 p.m. members of the general public are invited to participate.
(yes, i'm very sensititve)
that's about two-thirds of the cost of the 33-turbine farm, which will be only the second big windfarm in nh when it's finished.
if i was a lawymaker i'd immediately submit a bill requiring that makes of homeopathic medicine include that term in writing at least as large as any other word on the label.
the game "rolls down" unearned winnings into lower tiers, which means that at certain points it becomes statistically worthwhile to buy lots and lots and lots of tickets - as various groups have done for years.
read it here - and start looking for bobcat tracks in the snow.
(this year, the only official participant i know of is burlington, vt.)
obviously there is a lot of waste and unnecessary expense and monopoly-enabled froth in telecommunications, but is the consumer cost really 95% unnecessary?
the party sounds awesome, because if there's any place you're likely to see intriguing costumes, i would guess that makeitlabs, which features both a hydraulic car lift and enough leds to light up city hall, is the place.
what it doesn't mean, he said, is that each vote must be for just one man.
reality is so much less interesting than our memories of reality.
tom davis, professor of biological sciences at  unh, and postdoctoral researcher bo liu were significant contributors to the  genome sequence of the woodland strawberry, which was published last month in  the journal nature genetics.
i found that out this morning.
the telegraph has ended its "forums" section, which created  discussion areas for general topics that were supposed to draw crowds of people  who would have lively, intelligent debate prodded by our news stories, thus  drawing hordes of eager advertisers.
you can't more aerospace-y than juno, nasa's just-launched mission to juptier.
(trebuchets throw stuff with an arm powered by a counter-weight, as compared to a catapult, which uses torsion, or a ballista, which uses bow-like springs.
the hydrological resource implications of continuing glacial melt will affect more than 1.1 billion people living in glacier or snowmelt-fed river basins around the globe.
the foss manufacturing name will be added to the trophy, and the trophy and an exhibit of the product will be on display and the manchester-boston regional airport for one year.
falcon from acadia killed in boston this from my brother who works at acadia national park in maine.
it is very good  at finding cracks and crevices into homes, trunks of automobiles, etc.
the end product is a better understanding of what genes matter for  organisms to cope with environmental stresses like pollutants and global  warming and of the technologies necessary to understand how these genes  function within an animal that is easily studied in water reservoirs around the  globe.
the windfarm has the grandiose namegranite reliable power.
we are approaching the point where individual atoms are parsed out with instruments unimaginable a few scant years ago.
the ig nobel fokls are scheduled to put up a replay of the show, if you missed the stream.)
, that's partly because of the increased costs of environmental regulation of coal, which is the dirtiest of major fuels by most measurements, and partly because of the cost advantages of natural gas.
this kind of single-species crowding can be disastrous in the event of outbreaks like the parasite infestations and shell disease that severely reduced lobster yields in southern new england waters.
but boy, is it dense: it  melted down to 4.8 inches of water, which is just a tiny bit over 4-1 water  equivalent.
he also knows that it's unlikely to be accepted by the statehouse any time soon, due to novelty if nothing else.
speaking of electric power, slate's farhad manjoo has a good, but depressing, article about why battery power is unlikely to replace gasoline: read it here.
annual ig nobel prize ceremony go on sale today at noon.
it's such a simple concept.
we were small time operators, doing it mostly as an expensive hobby and loving the lifestyle.
$9/adults, $8/seniors & students, $6/children.
the ibex maps reveal the galactic magnetic field is also a critical part of the sun's interaction with the galaxy."
the experiments and modeling results will be relevant to ecology as a whole because few "coupled and nested" experimental and theoretical scaling exercises have been undertaken in any environment.
here's the site of the national space weather prediction center, part of  noaa.
i can't decide if this idea is just funny, or really depressing.
this is the first glimmer of hope that the fungal disease isn't going to exterminate cave-dwelling bats in the u.s.
(the post-irene river was so high that for the first time in five years of sampling, i couldn't wade out into it, but stayed next to the bank.)
dangerous toys just read a list and supposedly funny descriptions of dangerous toys marketed during the glorious 50's.
the discovery center observatory will be open from  7-10 pm.
but nobody is quite certain; while breeding pairs are highly unlikely, it's possible that a wild animal or two has escaped from captivity and is lurking near mount monandock or the white mountains.
the result is a more even and comfortable home environment for the occupants.
cost is $9 adults, $8 seniors & students, $6 children.
people's concerns must have some basis in fact to force public action.
it has some pretty startling stuff, including: veral lines of research now indicate thata 3-foot global rise by 2100 is a plausible scenario, though some scientists forecast a smaller rise.
march 15, 2011 region's nuclear power sector watches, waits i have a story in the telegraph today about the region's five nuclear power plants - to be four next year, if the vermont yankee shutdown goes through - and the possible effect of the crisis in japan.
it's kind of a loose organization, and i don't suppose local new hampshire coverage really matters much, but still!
pretty prosaic, alas.
on the 50th anniversary of sputnik i interviewed a bunch of people who remembered where they were when that news broke, including this tidbit from a russian i met in siberia, a russian food store on main street in nashua: he said he was in his early 20s in moscow when the news broke, but i can't really quote him because he decided to hide his name.
it starts at 7 p.m. at the high school, and the $20 ticket goes entirely to the robot team.
a good example of why rankings done by algorithm are suspect boston-area media guy dan kenney has a great item today in reactino to forbes trashing northeastern university in boston in its annual ranking of colleges.
not a very funny joke, i grant you, but it was kind of funny to see.
so, in my 70s, i can hear about as well as i could in after i achieved adulthood.
if i only had the code last year we did "first side story", which among other things  featured the robot singing "i feel pretty."
"modeling in environmental studies is a way to tie together what we understand about various aspects of the environment so that we can determine how the entire system works," notes wollheim of the water systems analysis group within eos, who will conduct the core modeling to translate measurements in individual stream sections, or "reaches", up to entire river systems and, ultimately, continental scales.
i'm still writing it, but i'm rather  proud of the metaphor that i open with: imagine if gas stations installed pumps that spilled four-fifths of  everything you bought.
its genome, however, remained elusive, limiting understanding of how the environment and genes interact.
find out why some antennas are on huge towers and why others can't be seen, what it takes to bounce a signal off the moon or talk with the international space station.
a lot of libraries in new hampshire use it,as this site notes.
but despite the fact that the expso had (as it says in this laughable  calendar listing) "up to 25 different readers including: angel readings,  psychic/intuitive readings, mediumship, astrology and more..." nobody  predicted that the owners wouldsuddenly go bankrupt and throw everybody out,  cancelling the show abruptly!
probably  not, but i certainly don't want that or other internet news services to be my  only remain choice.
check out the video showing it de-icing a windshield.
t the moment, the north conway water project pv plant (167 kilowatts) is the biggest in n.h. i haven't heard much later about psnh's idea for a multi-megawatt plant at the manchester landfill, which was tied up in questions of whether the utility could use some money it pays into a state-controlled renewable energy fund.
either from drought or shading from other trees, there would be a period of 5 or more years when the growth rings were very close together.
here's the report, which is more regulatory than scientific.
i heard stories about fishing and whaling and the steamboats that traversed the maine coast.
now, that isn't a problem.
read tje article here.
if you've ever attended (at harvard), listened to (on npr's science friday) or seen (online) the annual ig nobel award show, you've seen william lipscomb, who won the nobel prize in chemistry in 1976.
it didn't touch the beehive itself, perhaps because the new hive hasn't had time to make much honey yet.
so it's understandable that nanocomp is proud that contractor lockheed-martin used nanocomp's material, calle emshield, in the fabrication of the craft a good way to block electrostatic discharge that can happen from as spacecraft pass through charges particles in space.
this raised the expected payout, and he won a million bucks.
(ranking states, people have found, is a great way to get coverage - like this.)
there is usually some disclaimer in the letter that the contents were not illegal, that there was room for interpretation and anyway, how could something that made so much easy money for good people be wrong?
update:it has been pointed out to me that one thing i didn't examine in my story is whether all those cases involved people seeking mushrooms to eat or mushrooms to provide, shall we say, a different experience.
it's about greeley  park in the city, and it's still pretty stubby,as you can see here, showing it  at 7 a.m. on tuesday.
as far as yuri's night goes, on friday at dwc the gargarin fans will have a meal, varous space-related activities like a "lunar lander" egg drop, and a presentation from team goddard at wpi, which designed a permanent lunar base (html version of their presentation here).
here's a company wiki page, which doesn't explain exactly why they're shutting, although it contains the financially ominous word "liquidation."
ssc scientists and engineers who worked for years on the comptel experiment and who remain at unh include ryan, mcconnell, john macri, stan ellis, and tom milliman.
it lets everybody put their text posts, photos, video and audio into a single window inside our website.
" biologist is counting how many bugs are killed by cars (yes, bugs)
but it is a notable example of how to educate, rather than annoy, the public.
both lawmakers agree there are theological/philosophical elements to their proposals - one wants to examine how much atheism is being the push for evolution in classes; the other is concerned by the lack of a deeper meaning in evolution.
finally, check this ny times article talking about freakishly warm weather in the arctic and freakishly cold/snowy weather in the us and europe.
fluoride in drinking water: good stuff, at lower levels my telegraph column today is about the desirability of fluoridating public  drinking water, albeit at lower levels, per the recommendation of the us  government.
the ibex team is using the maps to learn how the heliosphere is shaped and what its physical properties are.
it's made by tecnu, a company with a good reputation for medication that prevents poison ivy infection, by applying it before contamination.
jobs suffered from "smartest guy in the room" syndrome - he was the "doesn't suffer fools gladly" kind of guy who believes that rules don't apply to him because he's special.
as of the moment, the usgs map of reports doesn't show many north of new jersey, so i guess i shouldn't feel too bad:here's the map.
there are dogs which have been trained to sniff out invasive weeds, however, as this story reports.
by understanding these timing offsets, the  research team can determine the role changes in ocean circulation had in the  release of carbon dioxide from the ocean and how an increase in carbon dioxide  in the atmosphere warms the planet.
in this climate, at least, you need some backup if you want pv to be a large piece of your power supply.
wood energy is not an economic swap for the departed paper industry - in general, loggers get less for their wood because it's worth less per finished ton, and the mills don't employ as many people.
each state gets a minimum maximum number, taken from the various stations.
as a reader, i'm stressed because my news delivery service  is being changed to something i don't enjoy nearly as much.
there are a number of people who swear they have seen one in the wild, but officials point to the lack of any proof - no good footprints, no hair tufts caught on barbed wire, no photos from handheld cameras or the many automatic "critter cams" in the woods - and say that the sightings are probably of bobcats, which are bigger than most people realize.
i'm not sure if there are other freelance blogger types who'd want to cough up membership dues, but that would be very cool.
i can't find anything in their stories about how voting night went, so maybe it wasn't the long lines and confusion that i assumed it would be.
february 14, 2011 proof that the internet is full of pointless junk: a video of me how heavy is the snow on your roof?
november 12, 2011 impressive events next week: skeptics in the pub, science cafe, climate change
a new invasive fish in nh 'likely introduced by human intervention a press release from the state: the state departments of environmental services (des) and fish and game announced today the discovery of the rosyside dace (clinostomus funduloides), a non-native member of the minnow family previously unknown in new hampshire.
that's because it's legally unclear whether the fcc has the authority to regulate voip calls.
and some parents in this country refuse to have their children inoculated, citing safety fears that most specialists regard as unfounded.
here's the smu press release.
later, he'll go to an energy symposium at dartmouth ( details here).
the two are part of clean energy america, which is sponsored by the nuclear industry lobbying groupnuclear energy institute.
" a bit of quick searching finds a youtube video of it from 2009 and another  from 2007.
here'san article from worcester polytechnic institute, where goddard attended and which for obvious reasons has embraced the father of rocketry's memory.
i didn't really mean it, but maybe i should have: the number of amateur radio licenses in the u.s. is soaring and now top 700,000, an all-time high, according to the american radio relay league (read it here).
washington state, which has seattle as well as near-deserts, goes from  44 to 224.
january 30, 2011 a recession silver lining: lots less trash the city landfill in nashua has seen the amount of stuff left by residents or picked up by trash haulers decline by 5,000 tons a year since 2007.
the attached photo was taken on the sidewalk at 140 providence street indowntown boston, suffolk co., ma on 05-04-11.
but you get what you pay for.)
check out the release from dartmouth's thayer school of engineering, which hosts the event:the release is here.
caution: all i know is this tv news report, which presents the sort of in-depth analysis that you expect from local tv (i.e., none).
my telegraph column today (read it here) is about the spread of ticks in the region, spurred in warming winters and land-use changes - it's an expansion of a granitegeek post from a week or two ago.
it doesn't explain why tunisians would target northern maine; i assume it  was a random attempt to snag customer information or something similarly  unconnected to tunisia's turmoil.
the ig nobel awards have come and gone for the 21st year, leaving harvard's stately sanders theater slightly shell-shocked at having been home to such shenanigans, and now it's time for an important question (important to scientists, anyway): does winning an ig help or hurt a researcher's career?
here's a telegraph story about the gathering, which includes links to the bingo card and pamphlet.
will suffice as a stopgap measure, but it comes with its own set of problems read the whole article here.
it's basically a small hydropower  plant in a man-made rapids.
you buy high quality rain gauge, get a little online training, and  become part of a web-based data gathering national network that, among other  things, gathers data to help predict flash flooding.
but, every time i get a kid in my shop and expose them to real tools, making outrageous amounts of noise and sawdust or metal chips, the seed is planted.
perform daily tick checks 4.
these would require that hunters can only kill a deer with "at least one antler 3 inches long measured from the tip of the main beam along the distal edge of the antler to the base of the antler burr at the skull, plus at least two antler points that branch from the main beam that are at least 1 inch from the tip to the confluence with the closest edge of the main beam."
he ended up voting for stephen because babiarz had no chance of winning, which is the sort of "gamesmanship" voting that he'd like new hampshire to avoid.
once decimated by ddt, ospreys have recovered significantly in the last three decades and have recolonized most of their pre-ddt haunts.
the comments on the story are mostly of the "fie on arrogant eco-snobs!"
i don't know if we're one of the markers, but in prevous ipv6 stories i've been told that comcast is way ahead of the curve in this issue.
here's something you may not know: the king family owns rights to that speech, even though "a speech broadcast to a large audience on radio and television, and considered instrumental in historic political changes and ranked as the most important speech in 20th century american history, would seem to be a prime candidate for the public domain," as slashdot puts it.
in a surprising turnaround,  the u.s. department of health and human services is agreeing with one of the  critics' main points, and is calling for a reduction in some fluoridation  levels "because of its presence not just in drinking water but in  toothpaste, mouthwash and other products, causing splotches on children's teeth  and perhaps more serious problems."
what happened, it turns out, is that a reporter talked to an astronomer and learned about the precession of the equinoxes - the fact that earth wobbles in its orbit so that the imaginary figures drawn in the sky called "zodiac signs" have shifted over the millennia.
the washington post has a piece today (read it here) on the future of coal-fired electricity in the u.s. that examines it largely from a financial standpoint and concludes that as things currently stand, little or no new coal-fired power is likely to be built.
the fact that google, which has always been incredibly open about everything, did this on the sly seems pretty darn corporate - maybe not evil, but not googleish.
last year the new hampshire legislature declined to pass bills that would prevent homeowners associations from banning outdoor laundry - a proposal pushed byproject laundry list, which argues that outdated concern about aesthetics fprces people to use energy-hogging clothes dryers when it isn't necessary.
the charged particles respond to the electric field, affecting the stability of flames, he said.
*you can continue to edit the article about greeley park, of course.
from the story: "the vote fast-tracks negotiations with vendors, which might begin installing meters, sensors and communication gear by the end of the year.
the vermont yankee plant, on the connecticut river adjoining new hampshire, may have to shut next year unless the state of vermont oks an extension for its operation.
it concerns what is described in official police-speak as "an incident* involving two horse-drawn carriages."
here's the video on bad astronomy.
it stuck me as a little odd, since presumably the tires were on ice which wouldn't easily build up enough friction to burn rubber.
(you can see the site here.)
i really love this bit of the story: in a separate study, participants were significantly more likely to agree  with a statement that desertification and drought were a growing problem if  they were made to eat several pretzels before answering.
at about the same time, a company called the world was launched in brookline, mass., becoming the first company to offer dial-up internet service to the outside world - that is, the first internet service provider.
a case in point: this week's education column about a nashua middle-school mathcounts team that got its second state title in three years.
you put it on top of each new snowfall, so that you can measure the amount of the next snowfall.
" the logo of this cool new enterprise is shown here.
ken olsen's legacy - nobody has quite matched it still, the massachusetts high-tech sector has never fully recovered from  the collapse of digital and the state's other leading computer companies.
costs run from $3,000 to $11,000.
contact the division of plant industry, nh dept. of agriculture, markets & food, 271-2561, orpiera.siegert@agr.state.nh.us.
the article is here:
it also mapped out sites where all of the heavier elements in the periodic table are created, a process known as nucleosynthesis, which is detected by regions of strong radioactive emissions.
washington post article here.)
be there and be geeky ….
two chicks were tagged in july, but the younger male chick didn't survive its first flight attempts.
i don't know who double-checks their data - sec, maybe?
my wife is the tool-wielding primate in this house; she bult the bookshelves upstairs, for example.
here's a long and detailed analysis from the burlington free-press - an interesting look about the devil-in-the-details which make all the difference for something like this.
earle rich mont vernon, nh fruitland park, fl march 29, 2011 icy water, lots of snow cut hydro, solar power output psnh says the ice merrimack river reduced flow through its 16-megawatt hydropower dam at manchester, while january's heavy snows blocked the 51-kilowatt solar farm atop the company hq in that city, resulting in n 8 percent drop in hydropower and "mid-january through mid-february being the slowest month yet for output from the 2-year-old energy park pv system.
the reason is that if a plug is partially pulled out and something falls on it, the first contact is with the neutral or ground line.
by the way, a commenter to the post suggests that the creator, mike haeg,  tie the fishing line to the rocket, so the catch can be pulled out of the hole  automatically.
thinking back on my kids' early childhood, i think "the mud puddle" would challenge it for that title.
the proposal, called granite reliable power windpark and proposed a subsidiary of noble power, would be about four times the size of lempster mountain wind farm, the only wind farm in the state.
any inventor or start-up can tell stories about potential customers deciding to stick with older, less effective technologies due to fear of the unknown.
because antivaxers have led to some recent outbreaks of this once-prevalent disease.
at the moment the efficiency push, like localized power production (e.g., home solar), isn't big enough to be a factor in overseeing a system that deals with up to 30,000 megawatts of production at a time - but gordon van welie, iso-ne's chief executive officer, says that's going to change.
they still hope to open the level 4 portion: seethe bu faq here.
it's one of those rules of thumb which sounds much better than :"rules of nose hair." lso, i am reminded of the great scrunchy noise that snow makes when you walk on it
i was moderating so i couldn't take notes, but here are a few highlights from my memory banks: ** state climatologist mary stampone says that she doesn't think the biggest devastation that's coming due to climate is an an increase in big storms - hurricanes, tornadoes - but the increased likelihood of drought.
good thing i like mountains more than beaches.
the net result for most of us in the ipv6 transition will be nothing - the point of going to the bigger address space is to sidestep future problems.
the key paragraphs in a boston globe story about a measles outbreak in  boston, started by a 20-something french intern, are these: for children and adults who have already had the recommended two rounds of  measles vaccine, there is little reason to worry.
it wouldn't affect us in new hampshire, of course.
as a sign of how the rain didn't hit, the noaa's automated gauge at the mouth of the souhegan riverhad been predicting a crest of 9 feet today - but the reality (as shown in the screen shot at left) is less than six feet.
researchers are trying to pin down more of the connection between the north  atlantic oscillation, which you might consider the north atlantic's version of  el nino/la nina, and big snow events.
the discovery was made in summer 2010 by des biologists during routine biological monitoring activities.
february 5, 2011 i don't just do geekery, but farm-and-forestry reporting, too last night at the new hampshire farm and forest exposition, i won the 2011 fred beane award "for achievement in reporting on issues and developments in the field of agriculture".
passengers eventually were ferried to the caribbean princess in motorboats.
the bdn staff is working as quickly as possible to fully restore the site.
the boston globe just announced a different idea: it's going to keep its long-running (since 1995)
to mark it, i have an article in the telegraph today (read it here, accompanied by a video that is currently screwed up, so that the voice-over doesn't match the screen grabs ... )
my daughter got one of those ultraviolet-light water purifiers for use in camping, to kill bacteria so you can drink water from streams and lakes.
but it's for the love of the art!"
my last netflix red envelope like a lot of people who use netflix, i am doing what netflix wanted me to do when it jacked up its rates:
boy that fire must have stunk when it was out.
and this item, concerning the growing practicing of using salt brine on icy/snow roads: * in the past two years, the state has begun experimenting with brine in northwestern vermont. ...
that's according to a new study of rock snot in south dakota streams - you can read a summary from the nastional science foundation here.
today it tackles the timely query: is it safe to shake hands at graduation?
that's roughly the same amount that temperatures have risen in the u.s. as a whole - compared to places like the upper midwest, which saw the average go up by twice as much.
of course, this isn't a problem where moose don't exist.
they called it brain, and it was basically a wheel-clamp  for pcs.
the tankers were based at what was then pease air force base (it's now a civilan airfield) on the new hampshire seacoast, not far from where the myserious lights were spotted.
november 25, 2011 friday: "the next mars rover" at discovery center super stellar friday: "curiosity: the next mars rover" the next rover to mars is set to launch friday morning, nov. 25 saturday nov. 26 (nasa updated it - see post), so the discovery center's friday evening program will discuss it.
across the north american continent, the scaler experiment will be carried out in a tropical forest, a temperate mountain forest, a prairie, a northern evergreen forest, and a tundra.
many of the displays were tiny, of course - they might as well have been colorful fireflies - but it was fun.
(manuka is widely used in the west for aroma therapy.)
the move was pushed by dec cofounder ken olsen, who led its push to create a minicomputer alternative to mainframes.
they also decontaminate air and water service.
maine (no. 13) and vermont (no. 14) are slightly ahead of new hampshire.
so it's interesting that a new study found that, contrary to common belief, it's not mother bears protecting their cubs who are most likely to harm people; it's male bears foraging for food.
mountain lion killed in conn. had walked there from south dakota dna testing indicates that the mountain lion killed by a car in connecticut last month indicates that it was from a wild population in south dakota and - here's the amazing part - appears to have traveled by itself, since its dna matched that of a cat which traveled through wisconsin and minnesota.
we're not exactly trend-setters.
the next morning, there's nothing but a stinky pile of bones and feathers.
" here's the nsw post.
the associated press has an article updating the status of the karner blue buttery, an endangered insect that has been the n.h. state butterfly for years.
read  the mass high tech story here.
a good year for returning atlantic salmon (relatively speaking)
verizon wireless may end unlimited-data plans it world reports that verizon wireless, the dominant mobile carrier in new hampshire, is planning to drop its unlimited-data plan next month.
mass high-tech has an item (read it here).
first for maine i can't find anything of geek interest from northern new england, so let's point to a first for maine: the june issue of playboy will have the first-ever playmate from the pine tree state.
it's a really nice rain gauge, though.
the only nh celebration i can find is in nashua, where aeronautics and aviation students will be celebrating at daniel webster college as a sort of spinoff of the annual student conference for theamerican institute of aeronautics and astronautics, taking place friday and saturday in nashua.
if the u.s. southwest goes into a dustbowl scenario, watch out.
scientists found that buprestids (the insect family to which eab belongs) in general are more attracted to red and purple hues compared to other colors.
you can read the whole announcement, and admire the clipart of a tombstone, here.
you can see n.h. state results here; you can look through all the states, and the overall analysis,here.
one would mandate teaching "intelligent design", the other would mandate teaching evolution "as a theory".
this week, company representatives will make formal presentations on their products to the judges and up to five finalists will be selected to present in front of a live audience at the 2011 poy event held on november 14 at the radisson hotel-center of nh in manchester.
(article here) as japan continues to struggle with the damaged nuclear plants, here's a column that says the issue may give a boost to relatively small (10 megawatt or so) self-contained reactors, which are sealed at the factory, put in place for roughly 20 years, then returned to the factor when they need refueling.
check these numbers, from the arrl: december 1971: 285,000 december 1981: 433,000 december 1991: 494,000 december 2001: 683,000 september 2011: 700,221 spotted via good old slashdot.
july 5, 2011 can existing dams return to hydropower?
photo by don himsel: one of the drawings with the civil war "machinery for navigating the air" how much would you pay for paperwork about a civil war steam-powered airplane?
it's a quickie story but a dose of depressing reality nonetheless.
this is the product: steripen even after your hearing decays, hearing protection makes sense from earle rich: i've had tinnitus (ringing in the ears) for years.
"we can now begin to understand how evolution works at the level of the genome on this family of plants we all enjoy," says davis.
the entire audience casts their vote for their top product after the presentations are made.
and the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center hasa number of events tonight.
he faces up to 35 years in prison and a $1 million fine."
september 28, 2011 really low tide sends maine's first cruise ship skedaddling update: a follow-up story (read it here) crunches the numbers, and notes that wind is an extra factor.
i learned from prevous problems to work harder at melting the snow - i put  it in the still-warm oven right after dinner.
authorities allege swartz hacked into the system to distribute jstor's archives through file-sharing sites.
on friday at themcauliffe-shepard discovery center, following a special presentation of planetarium showtonight's sky at 7 p.m., new hampshire native tom cocchiaro as he recounts space shuttle columbia's first landings on the dry lake bed at edwards air force base in california.
massachusetts uses e-prescriptions more than any state, and connecticut is no. 3.
says mcconnell, "to study the gamma-ray burst phenomena we need much more time because they occur randomly in the sky at a rate of about once per day and last at most a couple of minutes.
source: noaa changes in normal temperatures.
the burlington free-press has a story, with some good photos,here.
for me, the most interesting part was hearing of research which found that 40 percent of the people who come into nh to camp bring their own firewood, presumably to avoid paying $5 to $10 for the stuff near campsites.
if it holds up, and the coverage i've seen says it will, then at least one major scientific argument will have been settled.
making an  "accurate" zodiac not only changes the time of year for the signs but  adds one, called ophiuchus, that was ignored because it ruined the numerical  pattern.
i don't think they have data to report yet, but you never know.
i'm disappointed by our "create-a-wikipedia-article" attempt i'm a little disappointed by my call to nashua readers to create a  wikipedia article in honor of the site's 10th anniversary.
i'm writing a story for the sunday telegraph about mountain lions in nh,  spurred by the fish & wildlife service's decision to declare the eastern  cougar extinct, as noted inan earlier blog post.
he's not worried about extinction, though - he just wants to use the data as a way to estimate insect demographics from the article in treehugger: the biologist from the university of wageningen believes that around 500 billion insects are killed each year in vehicle strikes in the netherlands alone, but within those little deaths lie clues about how bugs are distributed, information that has been thus far elusive.
i walked into the house and  saw ronald reagan on tv in the middle of the afternoon.
(we also instituted a paywall if you read too many articles per month, but that's another matter.)
for some reason, i'd always thought that fishers (a large cousin of the weasel) were eastern animals.
the feds have already given an ok for its license to be extended another 20 years past the end of its license, so this decision may be an indication that the company is confidence vermont will come around, too.
most of the candidates got so little support that a winner announced until 13 of them had been eliminated.
the mortality rate among wild-caught fish is 80 to 90 percent even before they land in the pet store, and about 50 to 60 percent of the initial survivors after that.
occasionally, the application of math and effort can beat their ridiculous odds, as happened occasionally in a game called cash winfall in massachusetts.
unh's larry mayer, director of the center for coastal mapping at the university, who serves as a chief scientist aboard many expeditions to map the floor of the arctic ocean, is a big part of the story.
here's a boston.com story.
the pumpking carving is open for all to see, as it will happen during their regular open house, starting at 6:30 thursday.
here's a section from my 2003 granite geek article (the column was then called science from the sidelines): basically, what the research team does is compress a photo, then compare patterns in the resulting file to patterns from compressed files of tens of thousands of natural photos.
all three can occur on the needles of the same tree, and each one causes similar symptoms, he said.
we were rushing down to beat the lightning storm and were less than ¼ mile from the lonesome lake hut in thick trees when lightning hit a tree or the ground about 30 - 50 feet from us.
nanocomp's carbon nanotube material used in nasa's jupiter mission concord n.h.-based nanocomp weaves together carbon nanotubes into yarn and fabric that conducts electricity and has interesting thermal properties but which, most importantly, is very light.
as a long term subscriber, i won't see a difference as we pick it up out of our box.
rggi was limited in scope, since it only applied to power companies, and limited in effectiveness, since the recession had reduced demand to the point that the allowances, which allow utilities to release carbon while burning fossil fuel, were so cheap that they provided little financial incentive to reduce emissions.
the usual cure, (after throwing it out on the lawn) is to get a new one.
over a nine-year period it picked up signals from just two dozen stars in the entire sky.
loudenslager is asking for $10 million in damages.
when  you can just draw lots?
the report was published in the journal of wildlife diseases in july.
if it gets power solely from windmills or  solar panels (not that any do, of course)
as a kid, i used to love reading the weekly "top singles" chart in our local newspaper (the now-defunct washington star - this was pre-watergate, when the post and star were neck and neck).
then it hit me: i hadn't been down that aisle in ages!
i know how to blow glass, mix chemicals safely and handle electricity and power tools.
here's their web site.
i take the offending plug and either file or use the belt sander to match it to the narrow end.
when a rag is soaked with oily materials, the liquids evaporate and  fill spaces like basements and trash cans with fumes: fumes that can burn.
smithsonian.com has fixed the logo of its new blog called department of innovation, which i (and many others) ridiculed.
* if you want more, buy a subscription (please!!!!)
on tuesday the u.s. fish & wildlife service announced a national plan to combat white-nose syndrome, the fungus-related disease that is devastating bat populations in the eastern u.s. (see the plan, in pdf form, here.)
the blog page includes this rather gritted-teeth editor's note: thank you to everyone for your comments about our logo.
february 17, 2011 fiber, cable, xdsl - it's all on fcc's national broadband map southern new hampshire looks pretty good in the new interactive broadband-availability map released today by the fcc.
this is hardly news - it is well known in college, where white students semi-joke that they avoid classes with too many asian students because that means the class will be hard - but it's particularly impressive in new hampshire, which isn't exactly teeming with non-whites.
if it's above 1, it's worth a shot.
january 18, 2011 climate change made the sun rise earlier!
i played a little in high school and college, when bobby fischer's shadow still covered everything.
following the program will be a free skywatch outside with the new hampshire astronomical society including personal telescope advice and assistance.
integrated circuits are getting down to the few micron size.
i have one in my basement that does wonders for the workshop.
that sounds scarily high, but only because it's a global composite.
news item: the mcauliffe-shepard discovery center, in conjunction with the  contoocook valley radio club (cvrc) and the new england amateur radio festival  (near-fest), has completed production of an amateur radio station.
keep messing with my habitat.
a study that says "we found a connection but it probably doesn't mean  anything" is bound to confuse everybody.
when a rag is soaked with oily materials, the liquids evaporate and fill spaces like basements and trash cans with fumes: fumes that can burn.
accurate information is hard to come by.
his result (read it here):
the three-year study will estimate and predict the contribution of mountain glaciers to sea level for the last decade and out to the end of this century.
maine newspapers do a good job of covering large scale wind-power because maine, with three large farms operating and a fourth getting close, is far and away the windpower leader in the northeast.
"bierregaard has been studying ospreys on martha's vineyard for 42 years and holds extensive experience using this satellite tracking system.
in fact, no place in new hampshire other than hooksett uses them, according to the state department of environmental services.
addendum: wired.com has a cool article about doctored photos from the soviet space era, in which various people were airbrushed out of photos because they misbehaved, died, or otherwise ran afoul of authorities.
the esa solar orbiter mission will carry the heavy ion sensor, which includes an ion composition telescope being built at unh by a team led by research professor antoinette galvin of the institute for the study of earth, oceans, and space (eos) and the department of physics.
the tests were made in response to an announcement last week from vermont about tritium having been found in edible portions of a fish, some time ago.
they feel like a different "voice".
the bill is co-sponsored by three other first-term republicans state legislators, but mcguire says that's a coincidence, reflecting the fact that they already know each other.
so, perhaps the high use isn't a matter of educating the public as it should be attributed to the car manufacturers.
as a warm-up, you can troll youtube for the many videos there of 4-year-olds solving the cube in a minute or two - i've seen at least one kid sitting in a high chair, doing it.
here's the telegraph story.
the college board estimates that students spend an average of $1,137 for textbooks and supplies each year.
it's even dangerous to fall out of the boat in a mat; each floating flower has long, strong fibers that connect them to the river bottom, and these can really tangle swimmers.
it's also against the law to put them in the garbage, because of the small amount of mercury in the base (the electricity coverts mercury to a gas, which leads to the glow, as explained in howstuffworks), so without recycling, what do you do?
alas, i've already signed up to do work on hiking trails in my town, or i'd give it a shot - if nothing else, to see what "cooljeanius" from concord looks like.
tux turkel at the portland free-press takes a typically long, nuanced look at the issue in his state, which has four major such plants.
at least, it works well in theory, because i'm darned if i can find any examples of long-distance high-voltage dc that have actually been buried, except for underwater cables.
see those differences and a red flag goes up.
seabrook nuclear plant expects the ocean will be 1.5 feet higher by 2050
however, if we do have any cougars, they're not eastern cougars, because  that species is now officially extinct.
the nrc staff has given pilgrim thumbs up for environmental and safety issues, and the atomic safety and licensing board is in the midst of hearings.
it's informal and loose; the only rule is no politics!
the union-leader looked at data from the so-called blue book, in which legislators record facts about themselves, and found that new hampshire isn't the worst, it's just in the bottom 10.
" that's from a portsmouth herald story about yesterday's climate change conference in that city (story here).
here's the press-herald story.
if his law goes through â which mcguire admits is unlikely, at least in the short term â he could have voted for both stephen and babiarz even though only one seat was involved.
it's puny in terms of output, too, able  to generate five megawatts of thermal power, compared to 1,000 megawatts or  more of electric power (or about 3,000 megawatts of thermal power) from a  commercial nuclear power plant.
some  immigrants and travelers hail from countries where vaccination is not  routine.
you can't win âem all.
in other words, i can only listen to lectures to topics i already know alot about: the history (not musical theory) of jazz, their science topics (dinosaurs, classical physics, etc., none of which go very deep), or "the history of the cold war," which i just finished.
the electrode surrounding the to be cleaned part is made of iron or steel.
meanwhile, baited traps provide lobsters with a steady food supply.
except, of course, it's relationship to the vortex in your toilet bowl flush .
electric storage heaters convert "off-peak" electricity to heat and hold it in dense, ceramic bricks stacked in a heavily insulated cabinet.
those toys made my career as an engineer inevitable.
i guess i'm way behind the times, though: a little wikipedia-ing shows that the concept has been around a long time.
here's a link to the unh collection of the hill's papers.
regular electric pulsing can keep surfaces consistently ice-free while  maintaining low overall power consumption.
the biggest was 21" in diameter and on counting the rings, was 88 years old.
our reporter wrote the "penguin has pulled out" story last tuesday but it didn't run until sunday because of the need to fill papers over the news-thin, long holiday weekend, but penguin had already returned their books by the time the story ran … november 30, 2011 unh scientists to help estimate effect of melting galciers on sea levels nasa photo: in southern china, just north of the border with nepal, one unnamed himalayan glacier flows from southwest to northeast, creeping down a valley to terminate in a glacial lake
changes in the way i receive  information every day.
a fossil-fuel or biomass power plant is rarely smaller than about 15 megawatts, and of course has much more total output over the year than a solar-powered plant.
as adults, lamprey prey on popular gamefish in lake champlain.
last week my telegraph column concerned upgrades to the hayden planetarium  at the boston museum of science, centered around technology from nashua-based  sky-skan.
the free event starts at 7 p.m. in the basement of the barley house restaurant, on main street, concord, across from the statehouse.
but today's story has no comments, at least so far - nary a frenzied rant to wade through in search of actualy insight.
in nh, the number of child leukemia cases  over the past 15 years is so small that it can't be divvied up among our 9  counties, due to fears that individuals' privacy might be accidentally  violated, so i can't take a look at whether the rates differ widely among parts  of the state with fewer power lines.
it could only be found by doing a search, which advised the user to double-quote the string from now on, making "searches" look like "awkward" "zagat" "reviews."
" additional evidence for that interaction was the discovery of a "tail" of emissions in the underlying boundary landscape, which is apparently deflected in the direction of the galactic magnetic field as the ribbon seems to indicate.
february 22, 2011 can you make electricity by squeezing water through holes in the breeze?
computers that ran their program, plus this new bit of code, would  stop working after a year, though they cheerfully provided three telephone  numbers, against the day.
vermont smart grid helps answer that when there's a power outage, like the one that hit most of new england after the halloween snowstorm, the telegraph (like every possible source of ionformation, private or govermental) is beseiged by people asking "when will my power go back on?"
farid isn't just shrinking photos, but is decomposing them into multiple images with different orientations and different scales using something called wavelet transforms.
then he goes on to say that would require a stack of wood 80 feet high, 80 feet wide and 160 feet long.
this saturday, the cannon (and it reallyis a cannon - an impressive 10,000-pound piece of machinery) will be firing pumpkins at a 30-foot camper, trying to punch holes in it.
we're definitely geek or nerd centers.
allegedly they beat him to "near death ... then returned with her to the scene of the beating in order to make it look like a robbery."
the study, "the ecoresponsive genome of daphnia pulex," was led by researchers at indiana university's center for genomics and bioinformatics (cgb), utah state university, the u.s. department of energy's joint genome institute, and unh's hubbard center.
legislators are scrambling to change this rather embarrassing discrepancy  with a bill (hb61) that would put us back in line with the feds before we  change our clocks next week.
"but when the shuttle's robotic arm lifted cgro out of the payload bay the boom got stuck and two astronauts were sent out to yank it free and deploy the antenna.
they measure annual data from oct. 1 to sept. 30 for meteorological reasons, and just released data for my site.
this is no political surprise, since the republican party is unsympathetic  to cap-and-trade and dubious about human-caused global warming*, and the gop  dominates new hampshire.
a brief history of the project will be given by project manager wayne  santos, n1ckm, followed by the dedication with station manager peter stohrer,  k1pjs.
they never really took off, and as the telegraph's closing-them-down notice says, "forum participation has withered over the past several months as more readers post their opinions directly to online articles.
"it was a significant part of starting many science careers," says thomas, noting that many undergraduate, graduate and visiting students participated.
last week my telegraph column concerned upgrades to the hayden planetarium at the boston museum of science, centered around technology from nashua-based sky-skan.
later, when i went out with my father in a much better boat, it wasn't the same.
but also boy, is the north country hurting for snow - loon has been making snow like crazy but none of the tree-skiing runs are open because there's so little natural snow, and a couple of its steeper runs were closed so that (presumably, anyway) relatively sparse weekday crowds wouldn't hurt them for the weekend throngs.
the cramped labs and office cubicles forced us to interact with each other and follow each others' progress.
discuss wednesday at science cafe nh science cafe on wednesday evening will discuss digital privacy … does it exist?
nh, by contrast, has about 250 collisions a year (says nh fish and game) - and we have more traffic.
two years ago i wrote about an mit study which reached the surprising conclusion that the conway, n.h., area was a potential hot spot (so to speak) for future geothermal energy production, because of the heat released by natural radiation from underground granite.
it's still tick season, partly because they generate natural antifreeze
the one one the left is fine; but the one on the right has had its fuse blown, so that it's hanging down like a flyrod or something.
the company claims " the driverless system is fully controlled by advanced software and is capable of performing a complete workflow during the harvest process.
for both plants, their license runs out next year.
and, despite the daphnia's near-microscopic size, it contains more than  31,000 genes, more than any other animal with a complete gene sequence,  including humans.
we should still be grateful that he  didn't decide to go south to rhode island.
nasa photo the moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (modis) on  nasa's terra satellite collected this natural-color view of new england, the  canadian maritimes, and coastal waters at 10:25 a.m.
july 21, 2011 us has no manned spacecraft now … which is ok by me atlantis landed safely last night, ending the jack-of-some-trades-master-of-none space shuttle program and leaving the u.s. with no way to launch a human into space.
august 23, 2011 carrion beetle - wikipedia photo
it has top-level grandmaster talent, including larry christiansen of the boston blitz and the country's top-rated player, hikaru nakamura, but most of the players get a few hundred dollar stipend, at most.
if you have never drunk moxie, a soft drink that was created around the time of the civil war and inexplicably failed to disappear, then consider yourself lucky.
as the map on the wired article page shows (check it out here), bats' effect on new england agriculture is pretty limited.
it requires putting together groups who descend on lots of stores, because you can't crank out that many tickes at once.
researchers at kansas state university are leading the $3.3 million project, of which $741,000 will support the unh research.
arin says it has around 80 million ipv4 addresses left and expects to run out of these addresses within nine months.
the massachusetts water reserve authority has installed turbines in some pipes that feed water by gravity from the quabbin reservoir, getting 1.2 million kilowatt-hours* a year from the system (110 homes worth of power, by mass. calculations).
although troublesome individuals can be relocated or put down, wholesale removal of a whole group just opens up the territory for new coyotes.
you can view the original star map along with other artifacts from the betty and barney hill incident, the first nationally popularized ufo abduction story, which took place50 years ago in the white mountains.
if you've been a newspaper reporter for more than five years and haven't won at least one award, you aren't trying … we love to give each other awards.
although the snakes might once have been found as far north as milton in the champlain valley, they now are con fined to a warm pocket of rutland county where rocky ledges provide denning and basking sites.
we're trying to handle it,  but for the time being much deletion/marking is required - if you find that  your comment has suddenly disappeared, i may have accidentally marked it as  "spam" while wading through scores and scores of glop.
a handful of scientists point to that extra heat as a possible culprit in the recent harsh winters in europe and the united states.
these work very well and are used by the millions all over the world.
when the mountain lion's body was found, officials assumed it was an escapee from an illegal private zoo.
don't they know it should begeekapalooza?
the rocket-launching tip-up built by mike haeg (who's from minnesota, but we'll call him an honorary northern new englander)
loudenslager is asking for $10 million in  damages.
specifically, the goal of the grape project is to study the polarization of gamma rays from celestial sources.
they didn't come up to nh since 4g services such as verizon's lte aren't here.
this means the internet is about to get clogged up like a  bathroom drain because all the addresses are taken.
arin says it  has around 80 million ipv4 addresses left and expects to run out of these  addresses within nine months.
the cafe will take the summer off, but returns sept. 21 with a program on vaccines.
maine lobstering is often held up as a model for ocean fisheries management - the population of crustaceans has staid healthy while the population of boat-manning humans staying financially healthy.
says mccomas, "prior to ibex, most scientists believed that the global boundaries of our solar system were controlled mainly by the motion of our solar system through the galaxy and the solar wind, an extremely fast flow of electrically charged matter that flows out from the sun.
officers conducted a record check and learned the illsley was wanted on a bench warrant for failing to appear at nashua's district court on a controlled-drug charge, police said.
this is a book that follows the historical development of houses from pre-history to the present time.
obsolete technology: dolphin head oil for clocks back when i was taking a correspondence course in camera repair, part of the tools provided was a small bottle of camera and clock special oil.
through complementary experiments in which the researchers housed 25 infected bats together with 18 healthy bats, they demonstrated that bats catch the syndrome from each other through physical contact.
the flow of water creates a charge, just  as it does in thunderheads as water droplets rise and fall on wind currents.
the compacted snow contains dust, chemicals  and atmospheric gases, which are trapped in the ice and are indicators of past  climate.
i was one of roughly two dozen brash, young scientists that were hired within a two year period.
i'm on vacation, but hope to have more of a story next week.
note the phone number may 5 is 50th anniversary of alan shepard's flight nasa has created a nice interactive feature, in preparation for the 50th anniversary of alan shepard's flight.
now that our bulbs are virtually all compact fluorescents, though, i never need to replace any.
butas a commercial endeavour, i wouldn't recommend anybody take a self-publishing route.
a swarm of micro-quakes in mid-coast maine as many as 30 "microquakes", registering less than 2 on the richter scale, have been reported in recent days in the area of the maine coast near acadia national park.
we would do the whole trip out and back with just a few necessary words exchanged.
i have previously mentioned iin this post) a video showing an iced-up windshield get fixed like magic.
the whole article is here can you harvest the wind from bridge underpasses?
february 18, 2011 "ghosts" like to show up on reflective surfaces - gee, i wonder  why?
lthough, come to think of it, maybe excess greenhouse gas changes the  likelihood of pyramidilly-terminated hexagonal prism crystals ... in which  case, climate changewould be the cause!
the international firmcooke aquaculture has a number of salmon farms throughout the regioin.
in past years when i've written such stories they've drawn dozens of furious comments ranting that i hate children because they know that somebody's kid once got sick several weeks after a shot, which is proof that vaccines kill, and besides vaccines have rat poison in them and i'm obviously a biased idiot in the pay of big pharmam etc.
featured exhibits will include the discovery center's moon rock exhibit, lunar crafts, and lunar lander simulator where visitors can try touching down on the lunar surface.
"here's the announcement.
that has created an artificial ecosystem in which lobsters are "hyperdense."
the article talks about researchers finding old pieces of wood kept in a registry of deeds office from the late 1700s, when they were entered as evidence in a land dispute case!
actually, we might â because that's what happens every time we turn on a traditional light bulb.
this pair was the third nesting pair inmassachusetts after recovery began.
when incandescent bulbs disappear - so will the easy bake oven!
the company needs an fcc waiver to build out the ground-tower portion of the network, which has rallied the federal lobbying troops on both sides of the issue.
i still have firewood left over from the big ice storm a couple of years back.
new york city may launch a program, too.
here's a berkshire eagle story about the program.
the discovery reinforces the fact that a short stretch of cold weather, even two feet of snow as we had, doesn't kill off ticks.
broadband network for western nh takes a first step from a press release: new hampshire fastroads, llc, an organization bringing high-speed broadband to western new hampshire, began the first phase of its project today when it awarded a design and project management contract for the development of its regional broadband network.
so chances are that the rochester fire was caused by some sort of flammable liquid on the ground near the the very hot spinning tires, or something along those lines.
the more dissimilar the patterns, the more likely that the test photo has been altered.
from the story: he accepts anything with a power cord or that runs on batteries.
the bangor daily news reports that escapee farmed salmon have been found in rivers in maine and new brunswick, posing a threat to the genetic purity of wild salmon.
i don't think it benefits any party over any other," he said.
the cost of equipment is low, $90 for one sized to our needs.
steve jobs spent nine months or so using special diets and other "alternative" treatments, rather than surgery, after he was disagnosed with pancreatic cancer.
if you've never stopped by the first robotics regionals, being held this  weekend at the verizon wireless arena in manchester, you should.
the checking procedure went smoothly until they asked for her full name.
i await the news that dna analysis has shown that the easter bunny is actually a groundhog.
a smart grid needs electric substations to be more like telephone central offices
"righting a river is not as simple as it sounds."
for the size rooms or rvs we have, a very small unit is sufficient.
photo by chris malloy
any inventor or start-up can tell stories about potential customers  deciding to stick with older, less effective technologies due to fear of the  unknown.
the story isn't online yet (it got bumped by a big local story)
what these people don't realize is that noise damage is accumulative: loud sounds destroy those tiny hairs that allow the ear to recognize soft sounds.
my volunteer job here at the life enrichment center is hospitality host in the cafeteria.
visiting the nuclear research lab in the heart of cambridge, mass. cnet's green tech column has a piece, with a bunch of photos, about a visit to the mit nuclear research laboratory, whose mission "has changed over the years, most recently shifting its primary emphasis from medical research to experiments on new materials and fuels for nuclear power."
but i gave up - it was so hard trying to bust through that stuff and collect it into a rain gauge that i didn't have time to do it before heading out to work.
forbes doesn't visit all umpty-hundred schools in the country; it just compiles various measurements and churns them through a simple algorithm so it can put out a list and get attention.
you can read my deathless prose here.
it's part of a reverse-osmosis system and, according to the story, has a cost and "footprint" advantage because it uses a few large membrane systems instead of lots of small ones.
for a long time the region had no solar-power project bigger than about 500 kilowatts, but now the megawatt-level projects are starting to arrive in massachusetts.
april 18, 2011 slowing down from 70 to 60 mph saves ...
it found that the microscopic freshwater crustacean contains at least 30,907 genes, compared to approximately 25,000 in humans.
can tires spinning on ice really make a car burst into flame?
this is how archaeologists can trace weather patterns back through centuries, taking timber from old buildings and other places and building a weather history going back centuries.
as further support of the project, valero would provide project development and construction oversight services.
launched on february 14, 1980, solarmax carried several scientific instruments that provided new insights into the nature of solar flares, including a gamma-ray spectrometer experiment led by edward chupp, currently professor emeritus at the ssc.
the really interesting tidbit was this: "trained beetle-sniffing dogs will be brought from georgia to worcester county in mid-august to try to locate the elusive beetles."
since 1895, three of new hampshire's top  10 warmest years occurred during the last decade, and seven of the 10 warmest  have occurred since 1990.
this even launched the whole ufo abduction craze, which is whyunh has the hills' papers and thestate put up a historical marker at the spot.
"you can use a pseudonym," he suggested, in what appears to be some leftover paranoia from a soviet childhood despite decades living in the u.s. he told me the launch was as big a surprise to muscovites as it was to americans, because the soviets had withheld all news of their launch attempts until they had a success to report.
my telegraph column this week asked why more power lines aren't buried, to get out of the way of ice storms, hurricanes and falling trees.
- even as it fluctuated wildly for traditional systems.
august 14, 2011 using a vermont wasp to see if tree-destroying ash borers have arrived the cerceris wasp, a wide-ranging predator, carries the bugs that it catches back to its nest, which is a hole in the ground.
the higgins armory museum in worcester, mass., a cool little museum or armor and weaponry, is giving the state a chance to show off its trebuchet chops on april 30 with a contest cleverly called siege the day.
it's an industry fair, with folks peddling everything from umpty-son woodchip silos to the machines that wrap plastic around pallet-loads of wood pellets.
no! maine: sure, keep your old analog power meter, but it'll cost you the electric utility central maine power co. has intriguing plans to install two-way meters in customers' homes as a first step toward creating a "smart grid," which shows promise toward increasing efficiency and reducing energy use.
may 3, 2011 spring is here - i got my first poison ivy
the globe has a big story today about remains of a nantucket whaling ship  that have been found "on a remote reef almost 600 miles northwest of  honolulu."
with the color decided, the team had to settle on the right shape.
some things computers can't do.
it's a natural-color  picture taken by the modis on nasa's(modis) on nasa's terra satellite, on jan.  24, described like this: what do you get when you mix below-freezing air temperatures, frigid  northwest winds from canada, and ocean temperatures hovering around 39 to 40  degrees fahrenheit (4 to 5 degrees celsius)?
my morning cocorahs measurement found that i'd gotten 2 1/2 inches of snow,  which melted down to 0.27 inches of water - roughly a 10-to-1 ratio, which is  "typical" for snow, within a large variation.
cellulosic biofuel company mascoma gets a big buy-in new hampshire's best bet in the long race to develop biofuel from plant cellulose rather than from plant sugars (e.g., from wood chips instead of corn kernels) is mascoma corp., created by a couple of dartmouth professors, one of whom (lee lynd) went to college with me.
vermont yankee produces about 620 mw, so even if it shuts down abruptly we've got enough production capacity.
how dare this guy take my picture without my permission!if i was a cop i probably would have pulled him over, before remembering that this is his right as a person in america.
satellite transmitter-tagged osprey heads from nh to south america a fledgling osprey carrying a satellite transmitter is heading from a nest in new hampshire has started its long and perilous migration to south america.
but i gave up - it was so hard trying to bust through that stuff and collect it  into a rain gauge that i didn't have time to do it before heading out to work.
i'll have to shake the readership tree a bit, see if i can get more action january 12, 2011 discovery center: uses of light beams super stellar friday: "teen night: communication on a light beam" january 14th @ 7 pm explore lasers, light and color.
scope will investigate fundamental physical processes that are key to understanding the functioning of the earth's magnetosphere, as well as what drives solar flares, radio galaxy jets, supernovae remnants, and cosmic rays.
the trees most affected are mature and over-mature trees on poor growing sites with shallow soils, and those growing at the edge of water bodies, in wet areas, and on dry, steep slopes.
stability and job security are a  thing of the past.
here's a story about it.
closed landfills are proving to be good locations for what might be called small utility-sized pv plants - those in the single-digit megawatt range, which is too big for a single company to use but not really significant in the overall grid picture.
the site (http://cocorahs.org) makes interesting reading today:
there are two main ways of creating a cold plate to condense moisture out of the air.
fahrenheit, of course) when i went to bed, but 5 above  when i got up.
new hobbies are more fun is they require new toys, so i'm delighted to see that in order to participate in a global crowd-sourcing project measuring light pollution, you have to buy a specialized photometer called asky quality meter.
nh statehouse wants out of rggi greenhouse gas cap-and-trade addendum: new hampshire business review has a good story about the vote, including the way psnh cannot recoup from ratepayers the money it has spent on allowances.
there's a lot of life around that we don't know about.
as  people have switched from candles to oil-powered lamps to incandescent bulbs  and beyond, the amount of energy needed to produce a unit of light has  plummeted.
november 17, 2011 nov. 18: discovery center hosts a ufo believer
or something like that.
february 11, 2011 nantucket whaling ship with "moby-dick" connection found near  hawaii
nuclear experts to speak in nh manchester â
mudpuppies die as collateral damage, sometimes in large numbers.
or, a downstairs refrigerator might come on, and the electric motor inside might make just enough of a spark to start the whole place burning.
i only did brush cutting and i wore gloves and long sleeves ... but even so, i got poison ivy on both of my forearms.
before i have a story in the telegraph (read it here) about the new state liquor store in town, which has prominent parking signs close to the front door saying "hybrid/lev vehicles only".
it's kind of entertaining, in an exasperating way, to watch humanity waste mental effort on something so incredibly stupid.
the discussion will be led by will cothen, a senior reactor operator at firstenergy's beaver valley power station in pennsylvania and amy roma, an attorney specializing in nuclear regulatory issues with hogan lovells in washington, d.c. they are coming to new hampshire partly because the operator of seabrook station nuclear power plant, fpl, has filed for a 20-year license extension with the nuclear regulatory commission, which would allow for operations to continue until 2050.
the effects of the "super-secret" government program "to eliminate opposition" are to "reduce the brain's essential chemistry gradually without the target being aware."
if no candidate gets a majority of first-place votes, the candidate with the fewest votes is dropped and the second choices of those voters are added to the first-choice totals for all other candidates.
my column today talks about a study of new hampshire birds which shows, among other things, that birds which insects on the fly, such as swifts and barn swallows, are declining - and nobody knows why.
he joked before talking about how everybody admired the violin, so they all worked at it.
a study by harvard researchers, reported at a meeting of the american chemical society, found that a blast of electricity could stifle flames in certain conditions, raising the idea of backpack-wearing firefighters opening "doors" in a wall of flame with their magic wands.
i've been to the bowl twice although i didn't ski it, since the only part i can handle are the flat bits at the bottom, which didn't seem worth the effort of hauling up skis.
there is no reason in the world why you should only have a 50% chance of inserting the plug right when using a hard-to-see outlet.
earle rich mont vernon, nh fruitland park, fl u.s. has been snowy but dry this winter, says nasa
the rosyside dace is a member of the minnow family (cyprinidae) and typically inhabits small streams with adults ranging from two to four inches in length.
the ice is then cut into smaller samples and sent to 27 investigators around the u.s. who make the measurements.
nearly 200 scientists have contributed published work resulting from the genome study, many in open-source journals published as a thematic series by biomedcentral.
my knowledge of aquinas' philosophy consisted of a few sentences before i began, and the same few sentences now.
infinite energy magazine continues going strong, advocating varous fringe chemistry/physics theories.
technology would have pinpointed outages allowing us to dispatch crews more quickly to restore service.
the globe says that mit already settled this with swartz, oddly enough.
* ok, so i originally left out the "million" ... january 4, 2011 mit is turning 150, and its museum will shine
the landing is slated for 2 a.m. - if you're up and in front of the computer you can check in.
another piece says innovation les to olsen's fall as well as his rise, because while he saw minicomputers toppling mainframes, he couldn't see personal computers moving in hext.
meteor shower tonight - go, go, orionids!
the beauty of this method is that only a micrometer-thin layer of  ice directly at the ice-material interface is heated without having to heat the  bulk of the object to which the ice is stuck.
i assume that means flash-bang devices to scare them, not shotguns to bring them down.
but still a good one.
here's an example: one person i talked to  told me a friend of his once saw a cougar in a tree, where it had taken a deer  carcass.
the positive side of the power supply is connected to the bandsaw blade and the negative side connected to the rusted part.
i haven't had any bats around my barn for years; we once had a dozen or more catching bugs every dusk, all summer long.
the discovery center observatory will be open from 7-10 pm.
vermont is having a legal battle over who can control information about prescriptions - pharmaceutical companies or physicians.
irene flooding carried 'rock snot' into a fish hatchery; 450,000 trout, salmon may have to die
the bangor firm,hallowell international, has gone from 40 employees to 3, and its future seems iffy.
from the essay: even the audio book has solved the problem of how to convey footnotes.
it'sa nasty, pond-choking plant, not related to the chinese restaurant food.
just living in a non-critical part of the u.s. exposes you to 2 mrem each year, and the nrc says anything less than 100 mrem of annual exposure is not worth considering.
somehow, common knowledge isn't all that common.
what, they don't accept super-8 movies at withoutabox?
dr. jennifer gittzus of concord hospital.
that's accelerating erosion at southerly beaches, pushing more sand northward and slowing erosion at beaches up the coast.
along with eliminating carbon paper.
the flooding that hit vermont from tropical storm irene has produced 450,000 potential new victims: trout and salmon in the white river national fish hatchery in bethel, vt.
another company, neptune wind, has proposed a 500-megawatt site in roughly the same area (which has good wind, relatively shallow water far from shore, and proximity to cities that want electricity).
the league plays four-on-four tournaments over theinternet chess club, and you can pay to watch.
morin, a naval flight surgeon who took part in the 13th space mission of the shuttle atlantis in 2002, will deliver a keynote address saturday.
i'm sneezing with runny eyes and runny nose, going through my weight in kleenex every couple of hours.
the chevy volt hasn't made it to n.h. yet, although you can order one through some local dealers if you don't mind waiting a few months for delivery.
this female peregrine had a totol of 38 chicks during her 17 years.
january 27, 2011 organic led coating from nh startup gets a funding boost $100,000 isn't much in startup terms, but i'm sure the grant was welcome at innovacene, a durham, nh, startup trying to commercialize a unh professor's work on thin, organic, surface-emitting semiconductor coatinsg for use in organic light-emitting diodes, or oleds.
the article says there may be as few as 440 right whales left in the world, which doesn't sound big enough to maintain a population for such a large, slow-breeding animal.
it's a flow chart for energy use that demonstrates not only how little is produced by renewable resources (coal, oil and natural gas dwarf everything else) but also how much of it is wasted: 54.6 quads is labelled "rejected energy" (e.g., waste heat from power plants) while only 40 quads is "energy services" (e.g., gasoline burned by your car).
he's still at it, as the ny times reports today; he has developed a 1-to-5 scale to show how much photoshopping has been done to a picture.
you can read it here, if you have nothing better to do.
a nashua restaurant is the latest local spot to take this route, with a lame youtube video of people's reflections in a small glass window.
most of the museum consists of stuffed animals, life-sized versions of hundreds, probably thousands, of species, from hummingbirds to elephants, from giraffes to platypuses (or whatever the plural is), plus insects and primates and reptiles and amphibians and fish by the zillions, crammed into glass cases.
for more information, check: http://extension.unh.edu/agric/agpmp/brownmarmoratedstinkbug.htm some details: "in early fall, bmsb aggregates inside homes and other structures in search of a protected shelter from winter's harsh conditions.
their first research will be on the bacteria that cause tuberculosis.
you never know where education will take you.
well, guess what: the boy was a nashuan and the picture came from a 1953  book called "allan and tricia visit science park," created as a  promotional item by the museum.
valero's participation in the project strengthens the financing package for the kinross biorefinery, complemented with funds from the state of michigan, through the michigan economic development corporation (medc) and the u.s. department of energy (doe).
the process continues until one candidate gets more than 50 percent.
now, the water over georges bank is deep enough to allow those waves to make landfall.
in return, it has given us control over mind-boggling amounts of other information; the question is whether the trade-off is worth it.
made by a fitchburg, mass., native, it concerns the problems at worcester, mass., where 25,000 trees were turned into chips for a power plant because they contained beetles, as well as other places where the beetle has appeared.
personally, i always try to do the pull-through - find nose-to-nose empty  spaces so you can drive in, and then drive out - even if you have to park  further away from the store.
this isn't big news, actually - as u.s.  fish and wildlife service says: "although the eastern cougar has been on  the endangered species list since 1973, its existence has long been questioned.
"from an ecological standpoint, it is difficult to quantify what impact these derelict pots have on the marine habitat," added ken la valley, associate director, of nh sea grant.
"our role in this project is to plug new meltwater estimates into the global water balance/river transport model we developed here at unh and move it all downstream to gauge potential sea level rise," says co-investigator and lead unh scientist richard lammers of the water systems analysis group.
listen to david foster wallace reading his essay collection "consider the lobster," with its ubiquitous show-stealing asides: at a certain point, his voice is unnaturally distant, the result of a production trick intended to represent the small type of a footnote.
no credit card or medical data was breached, or so says seacoast radiology.
it also argues that we tip-toe around the issue, just as i'm tip-toeing around writing the word "shit", which makes it hard to have an intelligent discussion.
strontium-90 found in 'edible portions' of fish near vermont yankee vermont's governor, who wants to shut down vermont yankee, said tuesday that some strontium-90 has been found in "edible portions" of fish in the connecticut river near the nuclear power plant.
hey, kids: let's make a science fiction movie for the oldest genre film festival!
design nine will design a next-generation fiber network that will bring high-speed broadband, including internet access, to the upper valley and monadnock regions of new hampshire.
but it has attracted gulls, who are endangering flights at nearby burlington airport.
(researchers), along withapplied geosolutions of newmarket, n.h., are using geographical information systems and remote sensing to correlate satellite data with ground observations.
the big exception is the union-leader - it holds back some stories from the web so you have to buy the paper to see them.
i'm embarrassed to admit i don't know who fred e. beane was.
whatever the reason, the whole thing annoyed me.
it's weirdly satisfying, in a weather-geeky way, to upload your backyard numbers and see your data on the state and national map.
if you've never attended an ig ceremony, you have missed out on a unique cultural institution.
a wind power side industry:
the triangles are 25.5 inches at the widest point (top to midpoint of opposite side), the circles are 31.5 inches in diameter.
you can see how the mix, including alternative sources will figure in the future of how we will heat our homes and power our cars.
* but are footnotes themselves passe in the electronic age?
as a post-collegiate, i sometimes killed an hour by going into the library of a nearby university, hunting up the map room, and looking at road maps of the sahara while fantasizing about future journeys.
i was told that up to a third of the new trash trucks in the country burn cng rather than diesel.
in geek-speak, it's part of "an nsf funded research project investigating the space-time variation in metropolitan boston's carbon metabolism."
a smart grid needs electric substations to be more like telephone central  offices my telegraph column talks about a local startup called electricroute  developing hardware/software to help electric substations - those thousands of  mid-sized buildings scattered around the country that take high-voltage power  from transmission lines and step it down so it can be handled by local power  lines - talk to each other and to utilities' main offices, which is an  important step in making a "smart grid.
the high annual snowfall at the site enables individual annual layers of snowfall to be identified and counted, much like counting tree rings, back to about 40,000 years.
but i can dream, can't i?
january 5, 2011 $10 million of 'torture, harassment and bodily harm' from cell towers this item ran on the lobby, a business/politics news site run by the  telegraph,  and i probably shouldn't reprint it because we charge  subscribers money to see that service - but doggone it, i can't resist: bruce loudenslager, a goffstown resident, is suing clear channel radio  stations, wmur-tv and citadel broadcasting for "torture, harassment and  bodily harm from the continuous use of radio frequency and/or microwave  targeting."
dehumidifiers are less expensive to install and electrical costs are also reduced.
monday is granite state skeptics in the pub at the shaskeen pub and restaurant, 909 elm st. manchester, 7 p.m. they often have great speakers; i think this month's session is more of a general talk about issues of interest to the skeptical community.
vermont's population is also tiny, so small that, as the burlington free press reported recently,conservation and state groups have launched a study to determine their numbers and methods to preserve them.
you'll be astonished to learn that these publicity hounds didn't find any evidence of ghosts, but heard spooky footsteps and "crazy breathing."
new hampshire is no. 16 overall, and the number of physicians "routing prescriptions" quadrupled between 2008 and 2010.
since the first of two snowstorms began yesterday morning, i've accumulated  7.5 inches of snow, which melts down to 0.75 inches of water - a 10-1 ratio,  which is on the light side of average.
it's about greeley park in the city, and it's still pretty stubby,as you can see here, showing it at 7 a.m. on tuesday.
it was a great story of the little guy leading the  way to a more efficient world.
that seems to make correlations between population  trends and changing climate a little tenuous, i would think.
a little walking is worth less hassle when  leaving, i say.
it includes training for non-meteorologists "who rely on … data to make weather-related decisions.
visitors will have a chance to try "lunar golf".
this year's theme: chemistry.
i had a taste of controlling the world through electronics and mechanics.
most are doing a version of the telegraph's plan: you can read a certain number of stories per month for free - a move designed to grab the occasional drive-by reader from google - but after that you have to pay, or (even better!)
a scandinavian professor named hans rosling has become famous in certain circles for his graphics-heavy analysis of world demographic trends - aging, population growth, economic patterns, etc.
in the training class, they warn you to mark its location, which has to be  out in the open away from any obvious markers like trees that might affect  snowfall in the spot.
not until 48 hours before a national election are these polls truly accurate, he said.
this means that both can sustain populations at a size large enough to allow for rapid infestation when an agricultural crop becomes available." they're asking people to keep an eye out for bmsb and send "high quality digital photos or specimens to the task force involved with determining how widespread it is throughout the state."
(unless it rains, which it probably will) no federal decision on blocking cave access, despite white-nose syndrome fears
globe story is here.
in its three years, only 37 applications for wind power have been paid out to homeowners, less than one-tenth the number of solar applications.
this is the site: http://www.nashuatelegraph.com/topics/ignobel2011 september 30, 2011 artificial photosynthesis - another good dream to pursue lots of cool technology is being worked on at mit - the globe could probably run a weekly column about it.
" the world, incidentally, has 443 operating nuclear power plants and, due largely to expansion plans in china and india, could have twice as many in a decade or two,says the ny times.
if you want to learn more, check this special page with the results.
slate has a really well-done piece about whether it's better to back your car into parking spaces, instead of entering them nose first.
i am conducting this project to identify if mammals can see the newest generation of covert camera traps (with "invisible" infrared flash and digital recording technology).
perhaps we should instead keep the difference and celebrate granite state daylight time as the chronological embodiment of our independent heritage.
i take individual sheets and  cover the cat who wants to hide and play tiger in the forest.
only the desert southwest has an equally small estimated effect.
october 14, 2011 underground cables face problems, too - like hungry rats many years ago, when the independent hollis/wilton telephone company still operated the phone system in those two towns (its now part oftds), hollis lost its dsl service for a day or two because a squirrel got into an overhead cable box and gnawed through a cable.
she put a political bumper sticker on the back, next to a pro-hybrid sticker that says "my other car is out of gas".
" however, mcconnell notes, a successful, short-duration demonstration flight should provide the best measurements of the polarization of gamma rays emanating from the crab pulsar to date because of the sophistication of the instrumentation â the "polarimeter" detectors developed at unh â capable of making the difficult measurement.
what is the pace and pattern of the responses?
here's a quick item from boston.com's metro desk, a sort of blog for stories-in-the-making:read it here.
this was a fabulous winter for ice - it was nice and cold but snow-free before christmas, so we did more pond skating, and on lovely flat, slick ice, than i ever have.
perhaps their proximity stuck phonecamera man as significant in some way, and the picture will show up on a blog/facebook page to illustrate some politial commentary.
swd can readily feed in soft-skinned fruits, like nectarines, blueberries, raspberries, cherries, and strawberries.
(back in 2008, it was still news when our street view view changed, as this granitegeek post - marveling at the fact that a crowd has "disappeared" from downtown - demonstrates.)
the fight is ramping up over a proposal to construct a 1,200-mw high  voltage dc power line to bring more hydropower down from quebec through nh to  points south.
this means the internet is about to get clogged up like a bathroom drain because all the addresses are taken.
as further support of the project,  valero would provide project development and construction oversight services.
it's the latest example of experiments in alternative voting methods that crop up now and then.
dinners run $14.99, but tax  and tip weren't included.
the population in about 300 acres of protected woody scrubland near concord has increased from 50 to 2,600, thanks to a gazillion hours of paid and (mostly) volunteer labor.
concern about "gray goo" or something like it has led some terrorists to send mail bombs to a couple of mexican professors working in nano-tech.
bostonglobe.com ended its free test today and now costs real money (boston.com remains free) and most papers in nh already have similar paywalls.
each one costs about $9.
it wasn't really that bad.
may 25, 2011 the first science cafe was a blast - next one june 21 almost 50 people (plus some family and friends) filled the basement lounge of the barley house restaurant/tavern last night for the first free science cafe new hampshire, which discussed climate change.
my bachelor's degree is in mathematics (no advanced degree, for better or worse).
here's a cnet follow up, commenting about how alternative energy firms are having trouble crossing the "valley of death" that consumes many startups - going from post-r&d to self-sustaining commercial firm.
note that this data is taken from fewer than 10 stations in each state,  since that's the number which reported a "complete water year," not  missing any days.
the issue is likely to come up for a vote before the federal nuclear regulatory commission this year.
check out the video here.
they don't want general information about percentage of customers returned statewide or town-by-town, which is the sort of stuff we know ….
may 24, 2011 want to make more money?
the latest projects (with video) shows how to make a linear actuator from a deoderant tube.
just one single pulse of electricity melts the interfacial ice  and instantly releases any additional build-up, which then easily slides off.
this current, naturally, establishes a  magnetic field of its own - remember, all electric currents generate magnetic  fields and vice versa.
i picked four ticks (yes, 4!) off myself.
the value of oysters - for food and for the environment my column in the telegraph today is about a couple of people applying to  open or expand oyster farms in our coastal area.
new england's total capacity is 32,980 mw.
a great video about spring skiing at tuckerman ravine it's spring skiing season at tuckerman ravine, which is one of those events that make new hampshire special.
the story now has a large note from me atop it, explaining (as the original story didn't) that the issue is drm copyright-protection.
we were the last of the 10 states to join, three years ago.
a few states have already begun raiding rggi money to offset budget problems.
the rochester, nh-based firm provides radiology (that is, medical x-ray)  services for lots of doctors and hospitals.
carrion beetles consume a dead bird in a day i came back from vacation to find a dead black bird (maybe a blackbird, maybe a small crow, maybe something else) in my yard.
if nobody gets a majority of 1st-place votes, then the mathematical equivalent of a runoff election occurs by analyzing the 2nd-through-15th-place tallies.
the program deals with about 320,000 people a year, at a cost of about $25 million.
scroll down on that noaa page: it notes that arctic sea ice is way below normal.
i've seen discs of redwood and joshua trees in museums with id tags going back before the birth of christ.
any search of the internet or watching cable news will allow you to find just about any version of the truth.
geeks of a certain stripe may be more interested in the october 19 cafe, which will concern digital privacy - whether it's possible, how it can be done, whether it's even desirable.
web doodad predicts if your school will call a snowday a web doodad called the snowday calculator, which seems to have been around  for years, will "predict" the likelihood that your school will be  called because of snow.
that might tax the seating capacity of our venue!
"we should be doing some very useful science on the crab pulsar during this flight and we only need 24 hours to do that," he says.
this is what it looked like 12 hours after being created as a single sentence.
we got one of these 5x5x5 cubes a christmas or two ago.
the mask, which featuresfosshield embedded antimicrobial technology, eliminates 99.99% of bacteria on the treated surface within one hour and certain strains of harmful bacteria on contact before they can enter the body.
unlike in the rest of canada, the moose has no natural predators on the island, where the native wolf went extinct.
new hampshire has a different daylight saving time than the rest of the country apparently having the first-in-the-nation political primary isn't enough for new hampshire: we want to have the first-in-the-nation daylight saving time, too.
june 20, 2011 science cafe tomorrow: "the future of food" - be there or be ill-informed!
an important aspect of unh's water balance/river transport modeling will be taking into account meltwater that does not make its way downstream to oceans due to human intervention such as dams, irrigation, or because the rivers flow into landlocked or "endorheic" drainage basins.
unh professor ponders that question popular mechanics has a good article about the scientific and legal/governmental questions being raised as the shrinkage of arctic sea ice makes the inaccessible suddenly accesible.
a team of national and international partners are also involved.
but there's a lot we don't know about the region's seals - hence a new survey of seals in maine and cape cod that's going to take place during the pup-raising period of may and june.
landfills are flat, have no high-rise obstacles or trees to block the sun, and can't hold heavy stuff like buildings, so using them for a money-making (sort of) pv plant makes a lot of sense.
the nhhtc product of the year crystal trophy, which was designed by pepi hermann.
that's the first one i've seen that the transformer has failed.
nh says it hasn't detected the radiation near the plant in recent months.
'corn snow' is a real pain in the neck if you're measuring it experienced weather-watchers have warned me that getting snow measurements will get harder as the winter goes on and the snow turns into "corn snow " - a term for snow that has melted and refrozen over and over.
my wife was watching me doing my weekly snow-water-equivalent measurement  this morning: pack the full depth of snow (16" - melting has begun) into  the rain gauge, then pour in measured amounts of hot water to melt it down.
if we didn't exist, they wouldn't have that.")
the popular vote and previous judging by a panel of business and technology experts were equally weighed.
those much-publicized hundred-million-dollar superbigbuxpayoutlottoguy games aren't any good if 300 million tickets are bought by other "you can't win if you can't play" suckers.
the study, "the ecoresponsive genome of daphnia pulex," was led  by researchers at indiana university's center for genomics and bioinformatics  (cgb), utah state university, the u.s. department of energy's joint genome  institute, and unh's hubbard center.
a study by iso new england, the folks who run the region's power grid, says  that if the vermont yankee nuclear power plant shuts next year, when its  license runs out, "potential thermal overloads and voltage violations were  observed in almost every area of vermont and new hampshire. ...
celebrating the dark night sky
the tsunami in japan startled a lot of us with a demonstration of how freaking powerful the ocean can be.
i'm doing the same thing but manually judging what i'll need.
this post on space.com goes into the details.
it's expensive, and no panacea the concord monitor has a good article today, as power gets restored to the region, about why more power lines aren't buried, kept away from falling trees.
the national science foundation's office of polar programs funds the  project, primarily through its antarctic glaciology program.
slate has a really well-done piece about whether it's better to back your  car into parking spaces, instead of entering them nose first.
here's the story, which isn't much longer than this blog post.
but no one knows for sure.
desmarais, who lives in westmore, has laid line with draft horses for 31 years, and he learned to drive a team on his father's farm in barton when he was young.
roughly 8-1 ratio, which is pretty average for snow.
the eastern cougar is extinct; long live other cougar subspecies!
february 9, 2011 power lines and leukemia - is there any evidence of a link?
with the july 11 storm, we estimate that approximately 175,000 customers would have never experienced an outage.