from the filth of the "fraternity pranks," valerie creates real human fraternity.
"  or in the bullpen?
so face front, true believers!
the comic opens with a magnificently loopy golden age adventure sequence, dialogued as only morrison can ("and look what's up ahead!
and so echoes of those old  mooreswamp things will resurface throughout the narrative, possibly as  reminders of how to remake company-owned superheroes without forsaking any of  their outré elements.
i'm somewhat appalled that my first thoughts wavered between i hope this doesn't derail the talksand at least it didn't happen last  saturday.
two days after hiking in utah at 8500 feet i'm standing on a deck in malibu at about 10.
one  of them tells the spider, "you shouldn’t be seeing any of this, but  sometimes, in an emergency like this one, we have to let you locals into one or  two of our secrets.
maybe the jury's no longer out on global warming?
and so echoes of those old mooreswamp things will resurface throughout the narrative, possibly as reminders of how to remake company-owned superheroes without forsaking any of their outré elements.
special events include  a roundtable featuring cartooniststom toles (the washington post), ann telnaes (the new york times  syndicate), andkevin "kal" kallaugher (the baltimore sun); a display of original cartoon art from the library of  congress collection; a special presentation by herblock archives curator harry katz; and a keynote address by legendary cartoonist and historian jerry robinson.
guardian:  the most accessible series for  fans of standard superhero comics, although it works an odd twist on its  inspiration.
july 08, 2005 in politics | permalink | comments (0) july 04, 2005 s for symbol
(speaking of whom, it was rather disconcerting to see natalie portman at live 8, addressing this mass political mobilization while sporting evey's shaved head.
but i have to take exception with ebeneezer badde:  great foil for  klarion, horrible name, and what i can only assume is a reference to possibly  the most precious singleof all time, the shamen's "ebeneezer  goode."
an amnesty note that included selected portions of her letter would be truly  inspirational - but moore doesn't own those words anymore, and besides, the  thought of sending real political prisoners letters of encouragement penned by  fictional characters is unspeakably depressing.
the hypostasis and the kirby angle really work, though, because morrison's  essential affection for the character, and the artist and genre he embodies,  outshine the insulting implications.
from the first tumbleweed in new mexico everything in this trip has been itself, only more so.
well, except that the love triangle absolutely  depends on uncontrollable contact power-absorption and shapeshifting.
all in all i’m more interested in morrison’s dark-fantasy take on the camelot mythology than the fish-out-of-water time travel story, but we’ll see where this leads.
later that night it's a show at the viper room - we'll leave before the guns n' roses simulation takes the stage - and the next evening at a hotel in santa monica with just a glimmer of an ocean view i will watch as an actor whose work i know and like dances with my in-laws.
(update: at least it wasn't "hmmm, time to buy.")
apparently letting americans die needlessly only becomes a problem once you startdoing it at home.
i'm also glad tony blair and the other g-8 leaders apparently didn't allow  the attacks to deter them from discussing african aid and debt relief.
it may not be enough for some people; in the end it may not be enough for me.
in both issues would-be realists try  to punish those who create or dwell in worlds of fantasy or pleasure.
i may  never see you.
how about  the importance of civic infrastructure?
icaf is free and open to the public.
(naturally it's too early to say how the agenda did or didn't change after the bomings but blair at least seems undaunted in his commitment.)
the first time i feel like i've earned my view of the  pacific.  two days after hiking in utah at 8500 feet i'm standing on a  deck in malibu at about 10.
i'm always amazed by those who  are able to immerse themselves into the political coverage and blogs and spin  and come out with something cogent
"this was just a pop concert to those guys... somethin' to make them feel better about their cheap import sneakers and their aerosol deodorants [...]
not a remotely realistic vision of adulthood of course, but  their own guises betray baby brain's desire/biological imperative to remain  young.
presumably this is meant to contrast morrison’s writing on magic with moore’s, a contrast that didn’t endear morrison to anyone despitepromethea’s lackluster ending.
so i'm grateful to those who have waded in with the goal of keeping our attention, our sympathy, and our ire focused right where they belong.
century hollow was to be my  3-dimensional map of political and social reality, not your tawdry theme  park!")  that's also a conflict between realistic art and fantasy, a  point jog makes well in his review.
paul grist and benjamin herzberg will also speak at the george washington university's gelman library at 7:30 p.m. on friday, october 14.
july 25, 2005 in travel | permalink | comments (0) 7/15 santa fe, nm 7/17 grand canyon, az 7/19 bryce canyon, ut 7/20
blair set the tone this week - i don't think  the terrorists succeeded in wresting it away from him, although american cable  news did its damnedest to let them yesterday - and for once he set it for  something worth doing.
instead they mine out the  implications of their universes’ bizarre premises, exotic characters, and  baroque histories.
typepad informs me that this is my 100th  post.  which goes to show just how much time i've put into a blog i  started back in march of 2004.
although millar is obviously critical of bush, and blair's collaboration with bush, he gives all the best lines to bush's cynicism and condescension and claims of necessary evils.
it’s also relevant as a guide for revamping characters.
and then somehow i always end up thinking about the graphic novel and soon-to-be-a-major-motion-picturev for vendetta.
but the separation may be for the best; exporting all my posts on crap comics over there always was, in part, a doomed attempt at making this site something other than "just" a comics blog, a craven bid at exactly the kind of respectability i think comics don't need.
as i've put my writing priorities on those, where they belong, i've let i am  not the beastmaster dwindle into near-silence.
other sponsors include the herblock foundation, andrews mcmeel universal, jean schulz, dark horse comics, image comics, cartoon books, and jay & silent bob's secret stash.
when i was 18 i was more  likely to find a slogan in v's all-but-final words ("ideas are  bulletproof").
in the interest of freeing  up still more time, i need to do a lot less blogging.
i’m hoping (possibly against all odds) that at least some of these  characters survive their apparent end; their hooks, especially the  whip’s, are too good to lose.
the garters are almost too much, utterly exploding the plausible deniability that lets readers pretend superheroines aren’t sex objects.
this  was just a pop concert to those guys... somethin' to make them feel better  about their cheap import sneakers and their aerosol deodorants [...]
they're all  junior versions of glamorous adult careers: quarterback!
the comic sports some of  the best art i've seen yet from cameron stewart, and it's one of grant  morrison's finest single installments of this series.
speaking of literalized metaphors and the symbolic order,cameron stewart confirms that in his vision of his ideal state, baby brain is reading a book labeled "lacan.") ((incidentally, did the extranarrative panels divulging the fates of the newsboy army remind anybody else of the extranarrative "interview" panels ineightball #23, especially the ones where andy's victims speak?
as one commentator on barbelith notes, it  makes ed "the spirit of superhero comics made flesh," a perfect  hypostasis for superhero comics: aged and matured but still eternally youthful  (or, depending on how you want to look at it, developmentally arrested).
still, that can't be any consolation to those who were riding the tube or the buses on thursday morning instead of saturday night.
the revisions  are limited to zatanna’s costume, which gets a minor, faintly gothy  redesign through the simple addition of garters and fingerless fishnet gloves.
shining knight: unlike most of the other seven soldiers series this one doesn’t reach a stopping point with the second issue, taking a comparatively lackadaisical four issues to tell a complete story.
stories of how human beings make culture and meaning for ourselves, even down there in the garbage."
typepad informs me that this is my 100th post.
no, that's too snide - millar actually offers a nice illustration of the process by which cynicism supports the status quo under the guise of deflating the idealists.
from the filth of  the "fraternity pranks," valerie creates real human fraternity.
anyway, if morrison is now naming characters "‘eezer badde" then he’s gone even more straight-edge than i’d imagined.
i'm always amazed by those who are able to immerse themselves into the political coverage and blogs and spin and come out with something cogent but i have neither the time nor the inclination to keep up with the inundation of words our political classes are trying to pour into the space left by the receding floodwaters.
(and really, that's the greatest tragedy, isn't it?
africa has  been a home to al-qaeda before and it could be again, and ending the cycles of  debt and poverty is one of the best things the west can do to prevent future  attacks - certainly better than starting superfluous wars against al-qaeda's  arab enemies.
in fact, it leads to the destruction of the government that  tortures and kills her.
but the more i read v for vendetta, the more i realize that every  other cool-sounding alan moore action-movie line - everything v says or does,  for good or ill - is set into motion by valerie's letter.
last month i joined amnesty international.
you are not forgotten.
i will never hug you or cry with you or get drunk with  you.
not a remotely realistic vision of adulthood of course, but their own guises betray baby brain's desire/biological imperative to remain young.
but just in case you  haven’t read them already, spoilers follow for all of the series.
the more violent, earthbound revamps of the eighties are exhausted and rejected by the whip in her opening scene - "i’ve taken this whole morally ambiguous urban vigilante thing about as far as i can.
perfectly well-executed if you like that sort of thing, but nothing we  haven’t seen before—and from the bizarre boys, of all people, we  expect something different.
i’ve  always thought morrison had the most interesting anxiety of influence vis-a-vis  moore of anyone in comics (certainly moreso than that faithful but pale  imitator, neil gaiman);zatanna offers plenty more fodder for it.
in order to consolidate my time, though, i've decided to step down fromthe howling curmudgeons.
klarion the witch boy: the most untapped potential, with a fascinating world it barely explores.
inhis most recent post, doug links to this article in  which thewashington post's dan froomkin observes that the mainstream  media have finally started admitting whatthese folks were saying long ago.
that doesn't mean he won't  subject it to some dramatic changes.
an amnesty note that included selected portions of her letter would be truly inspirational - but moore doesn't own those words anymore, and besides, the thought of sending real political prisoners letters of encouragement penned by fictional characters is unspeakably depressing.
do not be discouraged.
this week, of course, all the cool boys are mocking the live 8 concerts, which had the double gall of dusting off aging rock stars and attempting a mass political intervention in the upcoming g-8 summit.
and make no mistake, this one does strike a chord.
which is a strange but not inaccurate charge to level at milligan’s book.
this is the dilemma that milligan’s x-men and, by extension, most dc and marvel superhero comics find themselves in these days.
is morrison covertly tilting the scales towards fantasy after all--with the understanding that "fantastic" doesn't have to mean "nice"?)
now peter milligan is back onx-men, the comic that used to be morrison’s, but it just isn’t the same.
suddenly klarion’s society seems much more carefully developed, if only glimpsed briefly, andklarion itself seems less rushed than dense with meaning.
it’s also  relevant as a guide for revamping characters.
speaking of which...)) morrison also works an interesting twist into the kirby kid-gang homage of the newsboy army.
and  while “bizarre love triangle” is pretty good fanfic (although it  very nearly qualifies asslash), i’d rather see the talented  milligan produce new material, not just play around in the bones of the old.
as for the whip, well, she gets her wish, too, to her regret.
they’re built upon the tropes and history of long-established superhero universes yet they are with increasing frequency telling stories in which superheroes are all but irrelevant.
the more violent, earthbound revamps of the eighties are exhausted and  rejected by the whip in her opening scene - "i’ve taken this whole  morally ambiguous urban vigilante thing about as far as i can.
it’s been running for four months now; anybody who’s still interested in reading this post probably doesn’t need the introduction.
i am, and ever remain, not the beastmaster.
both groups break down into murder; both times the violence is sparked by  sex, or anxieties over sex (jorge control tells the police his wife has sex  with the animatrons); both conflicts are played out as struggles of sober adult  responsibility vs. childlike pleasure.
maybe genuine conviction always does, especially in contrast to the no-risk variety of the cynic.
i suppose the comic is more subtle than most of millar's work, but that bar  isn't set very high.
august 15, 2005 in comics | permalink | comments (8) august 14, 2005 america in eight easy installments route 66, tucumcari, new mexico: christy contemplating our climb at bandelier national monument in new  mexico: yeah, we hiked it (south kaibab trail, grand canyon): bryce canyon--wonder of the natural world, or city of lovecraftian  horrors?
last semester: comics across cultures
of the two, which one  do you think is saying "all about you and me and the war and  stuff"?)  although millar is obviously critical of bush, and blair's  collaboration with bush, he gives all the best lines to bush's cynicism and  condescension and claims of necessary evils.
"  this confluence should tell  us something, even it it's only that millar is a deliriously, exuberantly  defeatist leftist too.
but they are a reminder that even the simplest words of support can have a  profound impact.
homicide: a year on the killing streets more...
in a sinister bit of synchronicity, i received a package yesterday that included a touristy london t-shirt.
i'm also glad tony blair and the other g-8 leaders apparently didn't allow the attacks to deter them from discussing african aid and debt relief.
morrison’s celtic/english fusions are strangely pregnant with sinister  meaning; my favorite so far is the name for gloriana tenebrae’s home,  "unwhen," which connotes both annwn, the celtic land of the dead, and  justin’s time-traveling ordeals.
contary to my earlier comments about the stan lee-ness of the jake jordan headliner and his adventure in the subways, the newsboy army is simon/kirby all the way.
the first time i feel like i've earned my view of the pacific.
has he become one of the seven unknown men?
(this presumes morrison isn’t saving the market for some later seven soldiers issue.)
it's about time the press started observing that bush's willing departure from the "reality-based community" has led to terrible consequences, not just abroad but right here at home.
i love  writing for this blog:  it's led to a great sense of community with many  people i've never met and it's even generated a few pieces that have led to  more professionally beneficial works.
instead they mine out the implications of their universes’ bizarre premises, exotic characters, and baroque histories.
doug tonks has been providing a steady supply of clear-minded commentary on katrina and the aftermath.
i’ve always thought morrison had the most interesting anxiety of influence vis-a-vis moore of anyone in comics (certainly moreso than that faithful but pale imitator, neil gaiman);zatanna offers plenty more fodder for it.
this is morrison's preferred path for changing  the superhero genre, the heteroglossia of technical homage and not the  imposition of cruel or tawdry realism.
weirdest of all, in a project called seven soldiers,  there are the sixes:  groups of six heroes, abandoned by their sevenths,  who meet terrible fates, and the strange dice that control fate, all that  remains of the absent gods and philosopher’s stones the characters seek.
las vegas plays itself: la brea tar pits and the miracle mile, los angeles: yosemite valley from the merced river: and chicago, birthplace of those damned cows, restores my faith in public art: august 14, 2005 in travel | permalink | comments (1) friday july 22.
obviously a commentary  on the fundamentalists who attacked america and the fundamentalists who run it  (though it’s leaps and bounds more effective than the iraq commentary in  something like phil jiminez’sthe return of donna troy, proof  that sometimes agreeing with the politics just isn’t enough).
anyway, it's nice to see our media growing its adult teeth back, at least  temporarily, although it's come a couple thousand people too late.
i'm somewhat appalled that my first thoughts wavered between i hope this doesn't derail the talksand at least it didn't happen last saturday.
the past six years of protests have pushed the issues of debt relief and global justice literally to the top of the world agenda; blair, to his credit, has worked to see that something tangible comes out of that push, although he should by no means stop with the promises that were made this week.
i was fully prepared, until i reread these issues, to say that morrison’s much-vaunted “supercompressed” pacing is sometimes a littletoo compressed – a complaint i never thought i’d make in this age of attenuated six-part arcs gasping out their two-issue plot for the trade paperback.
two other quick notes on klarion, both trivial but both signs that i’ve invested more time thinking about this series than any other.
for four issues the x-men do nothing but sit around the mansion and… what was the term?...
which goes to show just how much time i've put into a blog i started back in march of 2004.
milligan’s relationship dynamics aren’t nearly as  melodramatic (or overwritten) as they were in claremont’s heyday, but if  you can tell a four-issue story that doesn’t feature one single act of  superheroics then i’m not certain you need to be telling that story with  superheroes anymore.
but others have  already praised the masters or sifted through the entrails to divine plot  details (jog and the people over at barbelith do their usual excellent jobs)
but style and aesthetics and a lingering  adolescent concept of cool are horrible reasons not to take part in a just  cause.
but i have to admit, lambasting a campaign for debt relief because you don't care for pink floyd isn't so dissimilar from my reaction to the message of hope, which is as much a recoiling from the style, from the unbounded intimacy with strangers, from thename as it is a reasoned doubt about the little card's practical effects.
but they are a reminder that even the simplest words of support can have a profound impact.
as i've put my writing priorities on those, where they belong, i've let i am not the beastmaster dwindle into near-silence.
but this conflict deepens once we read the second issue and discover the  big secret, the thing that has the witch-men inventing democracies and steam  engines and the submissionaries closing the gates:  croatoan is gone, and  the witch-men know it.
he won't look so tough the next time daredevil drops him under a  train.
zatanna gives misty a lecture/demonstration of magical technique and legerdemain,demonstration being exactly what was missing from so many of those promethea issues.
plotwise, most of the issues aren't self-contained and it's starting to look like most of the miniseries won't be, either--not that this necessarily lessens the quality.
"  presumably this is meant to contrast  morrison’s writing on magic with moore’s, a contrast that  didn’t endear morrison to anyone despitepromethea’s  lackluster ending.
actually, that's deceptive.
for four issues the x-men do nothing but sit around the mansion  and… what was the term?...
(in writingthese reviews i resorted to the word  “pastiche” so many times i had to start looking for other  terms.)
that's also a conflict between realistic art and fantasy, a point jog makes well in his review.
africa has been a home to al-qaeda before and it could be again, and ending the cycles of debt and poverty is one of the best things the west can do to prevent future attacks - certainly better than starting superfluous wars against al-qaeda's arab enemies.
dispersing themes across different stories may be an effective and  enjoyable narrative tactic but, contra morrison’s own ceaseless hype,  it’s hardly innovative.
the sun sets  behind a beach house and a private helicopter buzzes low over the surf.
plotwise, most of the issues aren't  self-contained and it's starting to look like most of the miniseries won't be,  either--not that this necessarily lessens the quality.
morrison revisits the  climactic chapter of "american gothic", quoting a line of dialogue,  duplicating its setting in baron winter’s home, and repeating its  fatalities.
it’s less theologically ambitious but more narratively satisfying (and depending on who you ask,both of those may be good things).
both comics feature female protagonists who venture into dimensions of "crystallized thought" and imagination given form; both of those protagonists lecture the readers on magic.
and you thought "lucy in the sky with diamonds" was pretentious  twee shit, didn’t you?
i kept waiting for big ben to  explode.)
more links, more contradictions: "sex secrets of the newsboy army" is another story of summer's end (the name, of course, of the sheeda homeland), of kids who force one last childhood adventure when they should all be moving on to college and sex and adulthood (or at least late adolescence).
of the two, which one do you think is saying "all about you and me and the war and stuff"?)
weirdest of all, in a project called seven soldiers, there are the sixes: groups of six heroes, abandoned by their sevenths, who meet terrible fates, and the strange dice that control fate, all that remains of the absent gods and philosopher’s stones the characters seek.
it still remains to be seen if seven soldiers is going to amount to anything other than seven well-conceived character revisions, delivered through seven well-executed miniseries, and united to develop a few common ideas about power, authority, and heroism.
icaf is pleased to work in collaboration with the library of congress prints & photographs division and the caroline and erwin swann foundation for caricature and cartoon.
but to judge by their costumed identities, these kids already  wanted to be adults, or at least a child's vision of adults.
and while “bizarre love triangle” is pretty good fanfic (although it very nearly qualifies asslash), i’d rather see the talented milligan produce new material, not just play around in the bones of the old.
well, not entirely: if i want incisive commentary on current events i can always go straight toold flash covers.
has he become  one of the seven unknown men?  are all the seven unknown men old, dead, or  transcended superheroes/magicians like ali ka-zoom?
what is the card really supposed to do?
if this comic were about iraq i'd have no objection to  millar's points.
the case for youth is made by baby brain, naturally, and kid scarface (who will find eternal life of a different sort, and horrible stasis, in the cauldron of unwhen).
(the whip’s fetish outfit inseven soldiers #0  does much the same.)
i also wonder if the jagged cascades of the opening pages  aren’t a visual quotation of vintage bissette/totlebenswamp thing ; the script references a laterswamp thing issue, a deliciously nasty  little solomon grundy story from mark millar’s run on the title.
morrison revisits the climactic chapter of "american gothic", quoting a line of dialogue, duplicating its setting in baron winter’s home, and repeating its fatalities.
i was fully  prepared, until i reread these issues, to say that morrison’s  much-vaunted “supercompressed” pacing is sometimes a littletoo compressed – a complaint i never thought i’d make in this age  of attenuated six-part arcs gasping out their two-issue plot for the trade  paperback.
this isn't the end of this blog.
the costume displays morrison’s admirable knack for finding a concept’s core appeal and unabashedly amplifying it.
the end  to this first special is shocking not because so many of the protagonists die -  we’ve all seen plenty of that before - but because of the whip’s  expression of sheer madness and terror at the end.
the main difference is that one is about the g-8 summit and one really isn't.
obviously they're based on the newsboy legion template,  with baby brain as big words, kid scarface as scrapper, and captain 7 and  ali-ka-zoom can fight it out over who gets to be flippa dippa (i'm thinking the  loser).
besides, some of my favorite  posts here contain insane rants about thanos and "disco madness with  mysterio."
it's a classic morrison  technique of holographic distribution in which each individual part reflects  the themes of the whole.
and isn't it amusing how bush's lines sound so similar to so many left (or  stage-left) critiques of live8 and the debt relief movement?  "
looking for 100% debt relief.
which is a strange but not inaccurate charge to level at milligan’s  book.
for example, i was surprised that we never actually see the high market of  vanity fair inklarion, especially after all the build-up; it would  make the perfect way station between klarion’s underground  civilization/penal colony and the fabled homeland of blue rafters, which could  sensibly be reserved for the final issue.
actually, swamp thing seems to pop up all over this project, and not just as the one notable source for continuity in a crossover that otherwise is perfectly happy to play fast and loose with history.
"the anatomy lesson" is comics’ most successful reinvention, one that indirectly spawned an entire publishing line and a new direction in comics scripting: in other words, it unintentionally accomplished what morrison is perhaps trying to do with seven soldiers.
but isn’t that enough?
the subversive spirit  ofx-force survives only in occasional flashes of wit, buried under  heavy strata of the same old x-men business as usual.
many of the journalists at blair's post-summit press conference today expressed a palpable disappointment that the summit didn't accomplish more (the notable exception being the gossip-obsessed american - sigh).
the concerts, the london one in particular, really did look like rock's last hurrah, one final albeit impressive manifestation of the revolutionary liberation that was always inchoate but never quite realized in its glory days.
this recent discussion over at the howling curmudgeons first sparked my thoughts about the sixteen-year-old comic in relation to the amnesty card and our government's torture practices.
jefferson morley effuses about blair's leadership, his  ambition, his idealism, all the things millar says he's lost.
now  peter milligan is back onx-men, the comic that used to be  morrison’s, but it just isn’t the same.
his most recent storyline,  “bizarre love triangle” (of course), probes under the skin of a  longstanding x-men relationship and reaches the only reasonable conclusion that  it can’t last.
the relatively flat reception of the first four issues wasn’t surprising, given that at that stage the interconnections amounted to little more than a shared setting.
but the issues might possess an even more important kind of self-sufficiency if even a throwaway story like "siege at century hollow" can dramatize some of the larger questions that dominate the narrative.
try not to crack the internet in  half while i'm gone, okay?
a souvenir from my dad, who was there a few weeks ago and  will no doubt be back soon.
and so the spider is ushered behind the scenery  to witness his own renovation, just like the beginning of another moore series, supreme.
contary to my earlier comments about the stan  lee-ness of the jake jordan headliner and his adventure in the subways, the  newsboy army is simon/kirby all the way.
truth be told david simon:
morrison finds them in the seven unknown men, who appear to be agents of  retcon, in-story explanations for the changes he is about to unleash.
the editorial cartoonists' roundtable begins  at 1:30 p.m. and the symposium concludes with the jerry robinson talk from 7:00  to 9:00 thursday evening.
the revisions are limited to zatanna’s costume, which gets a minor, faintly gothy redesign through the simple addition of garters and fingerless fishnet gloves.
but this conflict deepens once we read the second issue and discover the big secret, the thing that has the witch-men inventing democracies and steam engines and the submissionaries closing the gates: croatoan is gone, and the witch-men know it.
one of the weaknesses of klarion, and to a lesser extent of seven soldiers in general, is that morrison throws out concepts so quickly he doesn’t have time to develop them all; some good ones die on the vine.
the main difference is that one is about the g-8 summit  and one really isn't.
(it also wasn't that surprising given the staggered  bimonthly release of each of the series, which can’t have been good for  sales.)but now that they’ve reached their halfway point it’s become  clear that not only are the individual series becoming more complex, the  connections are increasing exponentially.
i've been following the g-8 summit closely this week, hoping that last weekend's call for african aid and debt relief would amount to more than just anotherwell-meaning symbolic gesture.
this week, of course, all the cool boys are mocking the live 8 concerts,  which had the double gall of dusting off aging rock stars and attempting a mass  political intervention in the upcoming g-8 summit.
as one commentator on barbelith notes, it makes ed "the spirit of superhero comics made flesh," a perfect hypostasis for superhero comics: aged and matured but still eternally youthful (or, depending on how you want to look at it, developmentally arrested).
early reactions to seven soldiers were characterized by  disappointment that the crossover wasn't living up to morrison's much-hyped  claim that each miniseries,nay, each issue would be a standalone  story.
(pedantic obsession alert:
i've put a hell of a lot of time into it,  mostly because i keep crafting long exegeses like this post instead of those  short, sharp bursts i somehow never acquired the knack for.
x-force suffered a painful decline: first from an ill-advised name change (reportedly so marvel wouldn’t have to pay liefeld for the rights) that caused them to hemorrhage readers, then from corporate interference that gutted a major storyline which might have revitalized the book.
and so the spider is ushered behind the scenery to witness his own renovation, just like the beginning of another moore series, supreme.
pat harrigan and noah wardrip-fruin: third person:
this problem is by no means  limited to millar; some people might say it's easier to imagine greed than  idealism, that good is harder to write than evil, but i think it's for lack of  trying.
others are hidden jokes:  i guess now we know why dyna-mite dan didn’t do anything in the bookend  if cassandra has been selling forged tnt rings.
perfectly well-executed if you like that sort of thing, but nothing we haven’t seen before—and from the bizarre boys, of all people, we expect something different.
morrison also works an interesting twist into the kirby kid-gang homage of  the newsboy army.
literally  arranges itself, since the restaurant has cemented the rocks to create more  dramatic breaks as the waves roll in.
(this presumes morrison isn’t saving the market for some later seven  soldiers issue.)
in the interest of freeing up still more time, i need to do a lot less blogging.
their new parliament threatens the submissionaries, who want to keep the town safe and pure by sealing it off from the upper world, who interpret orders from croatoan by staining the iron pages of his book with their own blood, who rule through the fear of outside enemies and the fear of their god.
first, jog was right - that really needed to be a twinkie wrapper.
authoring and exploring  vast narratives michael pollan: the omnivore's dilemma thomas levenson: newton and the counterfeiter comics, etc.
in any case, the issue culminates with a bunch of superheroes (or superhero imitators) utterly failing in their mission – morrison makes it clear that a different kind of hero will be needed.
is it the bait to reel in the contributions, which conceivably do more good than the cards?
stories of  how human beings make culture and meaning for ourselves, even down there in the  garbage.
so the last couple of weeks haven't been any fun at all.
more tragic than the typical redemptive deaths of stan lee -  this is a world where innocent people sometimes die for no reason.
(the comic isn't any better written, as millar can't even distinguish between bush's voice and blair's.
at the time i was staying on upper woburn place, less than a  block away from the site where the bus exploded yesterday.
still, that can't be any  consolation to those who were riding the tube or the buses on thursday morning  instead of saturday night.
that's just the way the system works and they just ease their conscience by singin' songs about us every once in a while."
at the time i was staying on upper woburn place, less than a block away from the site where the bus exploded yesterday.
it’s so, like, down-to-earth and non-preachy."
i probably should have  done it long ago, but i never quite got around to it until after they released  theirreport condemning in unflinching detail my government's torture and abuse  of detainees around the world.
he's done this many times before, transparently or subtly (i really should write sometime about how every issue ofanimal man ties into the plot or themes explicated in the final, transcendent arc), but he's never done it quite like this before, breaking the hologram across so many different narrative arcs.
september 22, 2005 comics come to the library of congress comics come to the library of congress editorial cartoonists, eisner tribute headline conference tenth annual international comic arts festival (icaf)
more tragic than the typical redemptive deaths of stan lee - this is a world where innocent people sometimes die for no reason.
but some of the intersections are starting to approach shared themes, ones  that morrison has enough subtlety to leave unspoken anywhere but the  intersections.
september 13, 2005 in politics | permalink | comments (1) ah, for the days when the bizarre boys ruled the x-men.
not the simon/kirby feel of the original guardian, though, nor the 70s  kirby of cadmus and jimmy olsen, but the 1960s marvel lee/kirby at their  prime.
but it's become impossible to talk  about the summit without talking about yesterday's abominable terror  attacks.
compiling the contents sean mcdonald on grant morrison:
(incidentally, the froomkin article ends with a discussion of how the bush administration has used katrina to hand out more no-bid contracts to old friends.
it ends with a  simple assertion of her and her fellow prisoners' worth as human beings, and  their refusal to surrender that worth to their captors: i don't know who you are, or whether you're a man or a woman.
(speaking of whom, it was rather  disconcerting to see natalie portman at live 8, addressing this mass political  mobilization while sporting evey's shaved head.
they're alsoevery other kirby kid gang, even the worst of them, the "newsboys of nowhere street" coming straight fromthe dingbats of danger street.
in addition, icaf will host international comics artists paul grist (england) and fang cheng (china) and eighteen academic presentations by comic art scholars from around the world.
but morrison takes them beyond mere homage when he shows us their origin in the shadow of the united nations.
august 15, 2005 in comics | permalink | comments (8) route 66, tucumcari, new mexico: christy contemplating our climb at bandelier national monument in new mexico: yeah, we hiked it (south kaibab trail, grand canyon): bryce canyon--wonder of the natural world, or city of lovecraftian horrors?
september 22, 2005 in icaf | permalink | comments (7) guardian #4 takes us to the midpoint of the seven soldiers storyline with a brilliant episode that offers equal parts of revelations of the past and tantalizing hints of the future.
i'll letsimon reynolds explain: ...the song anthropomorphized ecstasy as a dickensian scoundrel who always livens up the party.
for more information, including  schedules, sponsors, and guest biographies, please visit ourofficial website or  contact marc singer.
the comic opens with a magnificently loopy golden age adventure sequence,  dialogued as only morrison can ("and look what's up ahead!
the costume  displays morrison’s admirable knack for finding a concept’s core  appeal and unabashedly amplifying it.
the multicultural assembly of kids  vaguely recalls last issue's century hollow, a tourist attraction in which one  hundred animatrons form a demographically accurate representation of the  world's population.
both comics feature female  protagonists who venture into dimensions of "crystallized thought"  and imagination given form; both of those protagonists lecture the readers on  magic.
it’s been running for four months now;  anybody who’s still interested in reading this post probably  doesn’t need the introduction.
paul  grist and benjamin herzberg will also speak at the george washington
so can all those gauche public declarations and protests and grandiose message concerts, whose main purpose has always been to remind people at home that they're not the only ones who feel something isn't right.
it’s even called a "cake of light," for god’s sake!
literally arranges itself, since the restaurant has cemented the rocks to create more dramatic breaks as the waves roll in.
this problem is by no means limited to millar; some people might say it's easier to imagine greed than idealism, that good is harder to write than evil, but i think it's for lack of trying.
ah, but that war is difficult to ignore, especially when the political leader of the poverty reduction movement is also one of the war's chief architects - the one we might reasonably have expected to know better.
i love writing for this blog: it's led to a great sense of community with many people i've never met and it's even generated a few pieces that have led to more professionally beneficial works.
but the more i read v for vendetta, the more i realize that every other cool-sounding alan moore action-movie line - everything v says or does, for good or ill - is set into motion by valerie's letter.
when i was 18 i was more likely to find a slogan in v's all-but-final words ("ideas are bulletproof").
he also surveyed the aftermath, a task that would daunt any reviewer this side ofpaul o’brien.
the last panel suggests blair has abandoned that idealism and is simply  trailing in bush's wake.
that claim was pretty much shot to pieces by the first installment  ofshining knight.
blair and the protesters that millar attempts to juxtapose so poignantly  against him are working two different but crucially complementary approaches  towards the same goal.
so there was a certain undeniable grandiosity to the proceedings, but  grandiosity - hell, pomposity - for a good cause is better than invoking  cynicism or derision as a safe, comforting, morally superior alternative to  action, and that's exactly where many of the live 8 criticisms have been  pitched from.
but who am i kidding?
are all the seven unknown men old, dead, or transcended superheroes/magicians like ali ka-zoom?
six years ago debt relief was supposed to be a pipe dream,  something only the fringes cared about; now it isn't so fringe or so  unrealistic.
in order to consolidate my time,  though, i've decided to step down fromthe howling curmudgeons.
but the  second issue closes with a lovely little moral-cum-exegesis that captures the  feel and summarizes the ethos of the old marvel at its most grandiose:   "we’re telling stories about human dignity, jake.
what interests me is that while zatanna chastises promethea it’s also restaging, you guessed it, swamp thing - dragging moore back to his roots, as it were.
but i have to take exception with ebeneezer badde: great foil for klarion, horrible name, and what i can only assume is a reference to possibly the most precious singleof all time, the shamen's "ebeneezer goode."
if there is a criticism of moore here it’s done by  paying homage to his older material while snubbing the new.
blair and the protesters that millar attempts to juxtapose so poignantly against him are working two different but crucially complementary approaches towards the same goal.
morley  oversells his case for "tony blair, world president" but at least  he's been paying attention.
new x-men kept the skeleton of the vintage claremont comics, the  presentation of mutants as a minority class and the maintenance of  long-running, twist-laden plotlines, an art all but lost in this age of writing  for the trade paperback.
the  relatively flat reception of the first four issues wasn’t surprising,  given that at that stage the interconnections amounted to little more than a  shared setting.
(two characters  choose codenames spelled with multiple xs and milligan doesn’t crack wise  once.)
the end to this first special is shocking not because so many of the protagonists die - we’ve all seen plenty of that before - but because of the whip’s expression of sheer madness and terror at the end.
there are the fish out of water, strangers to the modern  world (shining knight, klarion); there are the abandoned children, searching  for missing fathers or trying to complete their legacy (klarion, zatanna);  there are the fallen heroes, looking for a second chance (zatanna, guardian,  shining knight).
meanwhile, morrison departednew x-men just  as an editorial change at marvel resulted in a new dictate to turn back the  clock on almost everything he and milligan had accomplished.
is it just a way of making members feel involved in amnesty's work?
the concerts, the  london one in particular, really did look like rock's last hurrah, one final  albeit impressive manifestation of the revolutionary liberation that was always  inchoate but never quite realized in its glory days.
what else can i  do? july 04, 2005 in comics, politics | permalink | comments (6) june 21, 2005 four soldiers seven soldiers is grant morrison’s latest  project, a massive thirty-part storyline comprised of seven linked miniseries  and two bookends.
anyway, if morrison is now naming characters  "‘eezer badde" then he’s gone even more straight-edge  than i’d imagined.
what is the card really supposed to do?  is it just a way  of making members feel involved in amnesty's work?
it’s offered a rollicking story about angry golems and subway pirates, albeit with a tragic undercurrent that’s never far from the surface.
bonus points to stewart and colorist moose baumann for the scratched, faded art reminiscent of an old and forgotten film.
the department of homeland security?
blair deserves that slap and worse for following bush into  optional war in iraq, even to the point of taking part in thefabrication of the  cause for war.
most of  them asked about the global warming part of the agenda, although more than a  few were skeptical about the aid to africa.
the problem is that it’s only a bit of x-men soap opera.
a souvenir from my dad, who was there a few weeks ago and will no doubt be back soon.
it's the moral center of a book that compromises every other moral stance,  including the stance of inaction, and one of the most memorable passages in a  book that does not lack for quotable quotes.
(update: at least it wasn't "hmmm, time to  buy.")
actually, it was the manufactured,  shoot-the-messenger furor following the release of that report that finally got  me to send in my money; i hope amnesty's willingness to do the right thing and  speak out against torture even in the face of such withering (and appalling)  hostility and denial earned them many more new members.
it’s less theologically ambitious but more narratively satisfying (and  depending on who you ask,both of those may be good things).
i don't know if morrison or stewart planned any conscious  homage--we do know morrisonliked "the death-ray"--but
jorge's revenge takes the form of a world in miniature of terrordroids and the newsboy army's destroyer is named the terrible time tailor.
it was a broadcast from some parallel universe where rock stars do this sort of thing every summer and yoko ono never sold her dead husband's songs to nike - interspersed with transmissions from our own philadelphian timeline, where hip-hop superstars talk about helping africa while wearing diamonds.
(and yet, and yet...
now i’m not so sure.
but most of the criticisms of this series stem from one line near the end of the first issue, where a would-be sorceror’s apprentice tells zatanna, "i love the way you write about magic.
all magical business aside, zatanna is the seven soldiers series most tied to its character’s pre-morrison history.
special events include a talk by eisner biographerbob andelman; a screening of the documentary will eisner: the spirit of an artistic pioneer; a critical roundtable on eisner's work; and a lecture bybenjamin herzberg, who collaborated with eisner on his final graphic novels,fagin the jew and the plot.
the multicultural assembly of kids vaguely recalls last issue's century hollow, a tourist attraction in which one hundred animatrons form a demographically accurate representation of the world's population.
it's written by a fellow prisoner from the next cell over (in a sense), not a well-meaning charity donor who sits in provisional freedom halfway around the world, and it's scrawled on toilet paper rather than eco-friendly recycled paper stock.
it’s so, like,  down-to-earth and non-preachy.
the project has been built so much around absence, i wonder what morrison is going to do when he finally starts that seventh miniseries.
obviously a commentary on the fundamentalists who attacked america and the fundamentalists who run it (though it’s leaps and bounds more effective than the iraq commentary in something like phil jiminez’sthe return of donna troy, proof that sometimes agreeing with the politics just isn’t enough).
but morrison takes them beyond mere homage when he shows us their origin in  the shadow of the united nations.
i probably should have done it long ago, but i never quite got around to it until after they released theirreport condemning in unflinching detail my government's torture and abuse of detainees around the world.
milligan’s relationship dynamics aren’t nearly as melodramatic (or overwritten) as they were in claremont’s heyday, but if you can tell a four-issue story that doesn’t feature one single act of superheroics then i’m not certain you need to be telling that story with superheroes anymore.
the eisner tribute will take place from 1:00 to 5:30 p.m. on saturday, october 15.
this is both the blessing and the curse of jumping in late in the game, so i’m going to dispense with the summaries and jump straight into my comments.
this recent discussion  over at the howling curmudgeons first sparked my thoughts about the  sixteen-year-old comic in relation to the amnesty card and our government's  torture practices.
and now, god help me, i want to visit other planets and dimensions and fight rogue gods" - and both she and morrison are looking for other options.
but there's the rub: the time i spend blogging is time i can't spend writing academic articles or books or fiction or novels or anything else.
but it’s just as dependent on that past, and while it works little changes in the temporary status quo it never pushes against the fundamental, tried-and-true premises of the superhero soap opera book.
like the hero of one of those postmodern novels his base claims september 11threndered irrelevant, bush has decided to create his own reality from the comfort of his seemingly permanent vacation.
but the separation may  be for the best; exporting all my posts on crap comics over there always was,  in part, a doomed attempt at making this site something other than  "just" a comics blog, a craven bid at exactly the kind of  respectability i think comics don't need.
september 13, 2005 in politics | permalink | comments (1) august 15, 2005 bizarre love triangle ah, for the days when the bizarre boys ruled the x-men.
more links, more contradictions:  "sex secrets of the newsboy  army" is another story of summer's end (the name, of course, of the sheeda  homeland), of kids who force one last childhood adventure when they should all  be moving on to college and sex and adulthood (or at least late  adolescence).
all magical business aside, zatanna is the seven soldiers series  most tied to its character’s pre-morrison history.
morrison’s celtic/english fusions are strangely pregnant with sinister meaning; my favorite so far is the name for gloriana tenebrae’s home, "unwhen," which connotes both annwn, the celtic land of the dead, and justin’s time-traveling ordeals.
i don't know if morrison or stewart planned any conscious homage--we do know morrisonliked "the death-ray"--but the connection appeals to me because it would mean that, as withwe3, morrison and stewart are willing to pinchany trick from any comic to spice up their superheroic storytelling.
and now,  god help me, i want to visit other planets and dimensions and fight rogue  gods" - and both she and morrison are looking for other options.
but the second issue closes with a lovely little moral-cum-exegesis that captures the feel and summarizes the ethos of the old marvel at its most grandiose: "we’re telling stories about human dignity, jake.
if there is a criticism of moore here it’s done by paying homage to his older material while snubbing the new.
it's about time the press started observing that bush's willing departure  from the "reality-based community" has led to terrible consequences,  not just abroad but right here at home.
some of those connections are fairly shallow, just elements of a shared  continuity:  klarion moving through the underground world shortly after  the events ofguardian #2, cassandra craft revealing who the old man at  the bus stop inshining knight was.
las vegas, nv 7/22 los angeles, ca 7/28 santa barbara, ca 7/29 san simeon, ca 7/30 yosemite, ca 8/3 chicago, il 8/7 nashville, tn see you in three and a half weeks.
bonus points to stewart and colorist  moose baumann for the scratched, faded art reminiscent of an old and forgotten  film.
unlike most of those characters, reality has lashed back at  him.
for more information, including schedules, sponsors, and guest biographies, please visit ourofficial website or contact marc singer.
i also wonder if the jagged cascades of the opening pages aren’t a visual quotation of vintage bissette/totlebenswamp thing ; the script references a laterswamp thing issue, a deliciously nasty little solomon grundy story from mark millar’s run on the title.
authoring and exploring vast narratives michael pollan: the omnivore's dilemma thomas levenson: newton and the counterfeiter tod hoffman: homicide: life on the screen david simon: the corner: a year in the life of an inner-city neighborhood rafael alvarez: the wire:
superheroes die all the time, butthey aren’t supposed to lose their shit!
so  there's no need to repeat that.
anyway, it's nice to see our media growing its adult teeth back, at least temporarily, although it's come a couple thousand people too late.
here instead are the thoughts that linger, the discoveries made, the reasons i so love this issue.
university's gelman library at 7:30 p.m. on friday, october 14.
it may not be enough for some people; in the end it  may not be enough for me.
i love the moment when the lights go out as the rain beats down and the sheeda assault begins; it's the first time the crossover has felt truly momentous and truly scary since gwydion destroyed zatanna's group or maybe since j. h. williams helped morrison finish off the first, flawed group of seven soldiers.
there isn’t a single mutant rescue, sentinel attack, shadowy conspiracy or plot for world domination in sight—not even so much as a bank robbery to foil.
actually, swamp thing seems to pop up all over this project, and  not just as the one notable source for continuity in a crossover that otherwise  is perfectly happy to play fast and loose with history.
superheroes die all  the time, butthey aren’t supposed to lose their shit!
swamp thing -  dragging moore back to his roots, as it were.
obviously they're based on the newsboy legion template, with baby brain as big words, kid scarface as scrapper, and captain 7 and ali-ka-zoom can fight it out over who gets to be flippa dippa (i'm thinking the loser).
his most recent storyline, “bizarre love triangle” (of course), probes under the skin of a longstanding x-men relationship and reaches the only reasonable conclusion that it can’t last.
klarion the witch boy:  the most untapped  potential, with a fascinating world it barely explores.
it's the story of a woman who is  arrested for being lesbian, who has her head shoved in a toilet bowl - at least  there's no waterboarding, eh? - who is finally subjected to fatal medical  experimentation, and who writes a testimony that inspires at least two other  prisoners not to give in to the dehumanizations inflicted upon them by their  captors.
if executed, this simple revision would allow morrison to claim seven soldiers intersects with the entire hostess advertisementoeuvre to form a multi-universal hypersigil, so you know he's up for it.
june 21, 2005 in comics, morrisonarama, seven soldiers | permalink | comments (11) grant morrison: combining the worlds of contemporary comics detective fiction in a postcolonial and transnational world charles hatfield: hand of fire: the comics art of jack kirby tom de haven: our hero: superman on earth kim newman: mysteries of the diogenes club the hernandez brothers: love and rockets: new stories (vol. 4)
new x-men kept the skeleton of the vintage claremont comics, the presentation of mutants as a minority class and the maintenance of long-running, twist-laden plotlines, an art all but lost in this age of writing for the trade paperback.
in addition to asking for a donation, they  included a small card - i'm sorry, a "message of hope" card - which  they asked me to sign and return with the promise that they'd try to deliver it  to a prisoner.
unlike so many other contemporary superhero comics, it’s not  obsessed with nostalgia and it doesn’t attempt to revisit or recreate its  own past.
back in 2001 grant morrison’snew x-men and peter milligan’s x-force set a new paradigm for marvel comics’ top franchise, all but ending their reliance on inscrutable continuity and interminable angst.
maybe genuine conviction always does, especially in contrast to the  no-risk variety of the cynic.
songs about us every once in a while.
all in all i’m more  interested in morrison’s dark-fantasy take on the camelot mythology than  the fish-out-of-water time travel story, but we’ll see where this leads.
wouldja believe a land of golden top hats!").
(in writingthese reviews i resorted to the word “pastiche” so many times i had to start looking for other terms.)
i was evacuated from an  underground station once during a false alarm in 1999, shortly after thenail  bombings.
and, to follow my personal swamp thing obsession, i look at that panel of jake against the window and  i think:  "it's raining in new york tonight.
the subversive spirit ofx-force survives only in occasional flashes of wit, buried under heavy strata of the same old x-men business as usual.
not as much blogging.)
really, a perfect issue and one of the finest chapters of seven soldiers thus far; certainly the one that's got me most eager to see what happens next.
so can all those gauche public declarations and protests  and grandiose message concerts, whose main purpose has always been to remind  people at home that they're not the only ones who feel something isn't  right.
they're alsoevery other kirby kid gang, even the worst  of them, the "newsboys of nowhere street" coming straight
the editorial cartoonists' roundtable begins at 1:30 p.m. and the symposium concludes with the jerry robinson talk from 7:00 to 9:00 thursday evening.
special events include a roundtable featuring cartooniststom toles (the washington post), ann telnaes (the new york times syndicate), andkevin "kal" kallaugher (the baltimore sun); a display of original cartoon art from the library of congress collection; a special presentation by herblock archives curator harry katz; and a keynote address by legendary cartoonist and historian jerry robinson.
the department of homeland  security?
the case for youth is made by baby brain, naturally, and kid scarface (who will  find eternal life of a different sort, and horrible stasis, in the cauldron of  unwhen).
if executed, this simple revision would allow morrison to claim seven soldiers  intersects with the entire hostess advertisementoeuvre to form a  multi-universal hypersigil, so you know he's up for it.
the comic sports some of the best art i've seen yet from cameron stewart, and it's one of grant morrison's finest single installments of this series.
at most a mood it tries to recapture--but itnails it.)
fortunately even counter-revolutions peter out after a while.
or in the bullpen? zatanna: a lot has been written about this series’ apparent response to moore’spromethea, and the similarities aren’t exactly subtle.
it's written by a fellow prisoner from the next cell over (in a  sense), not a well-meaning charity donor who sits in provisional freedom  halfway around the world, and it's scrawled on toilet paper rather than  eco-friendly recycled paper stock.
the hypostasis and the kirby angle really work, though, because morrison's essential affection for the character, and the artist and genre he embodies, outshine the insulting implications.
after the first issue, i had thought the clash between the witch-men’s parliament and the submissionaries was more explained than shown, and ended before it had been given a chance to develop.
doug  tonks has been providing a steady supply of clear-minded commentary on katrina  and the aftermath.
i am glad the attacks didn't happen last weekend when london transport was flooded with an extra 200,000 people.
but it’s just as dependent on that past, and while it works  little changes in the temporary status quo it never pushes against the  fundamental, tried-and-true premises of the superhero soap opera book.
the comic doesn’t suffer for lack of skill; after a  meandering and disappointing opening arc, milligan’s run has shaped up  nicely as a clever character study.
for example, i was surprised that we never actually see the high market of vanity fair inklarion, especially after all the build-up; it would make the perfect way station between klarion’s underground civilization/penal colony and the fabled homeland of blue rafters, which could sensibly be reserved for the final issue.
there are the fish out of water, strangers to the modern world (shining knight, klarion); there are the abandoned children, searching for missing fathers or trying to complete their legacy (klarion, zatanna); there are the fallen heroes, looking for a second chance (zatanna, guardian, shining knight).
but morrison welded that framework to a contemporary  portrayal of minority subculture, scientific anxiety, revolutionary  iconography, collapsing relationships and ethnic cleansing that belatedly  brought the hottest heroes of the 1970s into the present.
interconnections: i’ve resisted blogging about seven soldiers until now because if morrison’s pronouncements were accurate (and that is always a bigif) much of its innovation was supposed to lie in the interconnections between the various series.
i wish them well and i appreciate having had the forum.
icaf is also proud to present a tribute to the late comics pioneer will eisner, creator of the spirit and one of the inventors  of the graphic novel, on saturday, october 15.
but he's never done it quite like this before, breaking the hologram across so  many different narrative arcs.
this year icaf celebrates its tenth anniversary with a symposium on  editorial cartooning to be held on thursday, october 13.
klarion has the richest and strangest terrain of any of the series thus far, and i wish he had given us more time to explore it.
there  isn’t a single mutant rescue, sentinel attack, shadowy conspiracy or plot  for world domination in sight—not even so much as a bank robbery to  foil.
but some of the details i thought were missing turn out to be there after all, lurking in the compression and waiting for later issues to explain them.
but it's nominally about the g-8 summit, where blair isn't cast so easily  as bush's poodle.
and isn't it amusing how bush's lines sound so similar to so many left (or stage-left) critiques of live8 and the debt relief movement?
so i'm grateful to those who have waded in with the goal of keeping our  attention, our sympathy, and our ire focused right where they belong.
it's interesting to comparethis take on tony blair by comics creators mark millar and sean philips withthis one by washington post columnist jefferson morley.
but that, i concede, is only my reaction and not anything the story appears to be signalling.
it’s been great so far, with lush art by simone bianchi, but the half-finished plot means there’s less to discuss.
when the group threatens to split ("two teams"?)
you are not forgotten" in five languages.
i suppose the comic is more subtle than most of millar's work, but that bar isn't set very high.
the conflict is interesting because it exists within the heroes, not just between them and their elderly enemy; if it didn't, the horrible crime that sunders the newsboy army could never have happened in the first place.
shining knight:  unlike most of the other  seven soldiers series this one doesn’t reach a stopping point with the  second issue, taking a comparatively lackadaisical four issues to tell a  complete story.
these binaries of child and adult, pleasure and control, fantasy and realism resonate throughoutseven soldiers.
read the whole thing.)
compiling the contents stephen frug on fanfare for the common man, part 2: the good old days stephen frug on fanfare for the common man, part 2: the good old days marc on fanfare for the common man, part 2: the good old days jones, one of the jones boys on fanfare for the common man, part 2: the  good old days marc on fanfare for the common man, part 2: the good old days mike rhode on fanfare for the common man, part 2: the good old days eric b on fanfare for the common man charles hatfield on fanfare for the common man, part 2: the good old days buy my books grant morrison: combining the worlds of contemporary comics detective fiction in a postcolonial and transnational world current (and not-so-current) reading charles hatfield: hand of fire: the comics art of jack kirby tom de haven: our hero: superman on earth kim newman: mysteries of the diogenes club the hernandez brothers: love and rockets: new stories (vol. 4)
but style and aesthetics and a lingering adolescent concept of cool are horrible reasons not to take part in a just cause.
(remember, this is jamesian subtlety by millar's  standards.)
it was a broadcast  from some parallel universe where rock stars do this sort of thing every summer  and yoko ono never sold her dead husband's songs to nike - interspersed with  transmissions from our own philadelphian timeline, where hip-hop superstars  talk about helping africa while wearing diamonds.
ah, but that war is difficult to ignore, especially when the political  leader of the poverty reduction movement is also one of the war's chief  architects - the one we might reasonably have expected to know better.
meanwhile, morrison departednew x-men just as an editorial change at marvel resulted in a new dictate to turn back the clock on almost everything he and milligan had accomplished.
all in all it’s a smarter than average bit of x-men soap opera.
others are hidden jokes: i guess now we know why dyna-mite dan didn’t do anything in the bookend if cassandra has been selling forged tnt rings.
not the simon/kirby feel of the original guardian, though, nor the 70s kirby of cadmus and jimmy olsen, but the 1960s marvel lee/kirby at their prime.
the past six years of protests have pushed the  issues of debt relief and global justice literally to the top of the world  agenda; blair, to his credit, has worked to see that something tangible comes  out of that push, although he should by no means stop with the promises that  were made this week.
six years ago debt relief was supposed to be a pipe dream, something only the fringes cared about; now it isn't so fringe or so unrealistic.
it's the story of a woman who is arrested for being lesbian, who has her head shoved in a toilet bowl - at least there's no waterboarding, eh? - who is finally subjected to fatal medical experimentation, and who writes a testimony that inspires at least two other prisoners not to give in to the dehumanizations inflicted upon them by their captors.
it's the moral center of a book that compromises every other moral stance, including the stance of inaction, and one of the most memorable passages in a book that does not lack for quotable quotes.
the revelation that ed stargard is stuck in a state of permanent infancy is a little more biting than these kirby tributes usually turn out (although not moreso than mark millar's dr. krigstein inthe authority, a twisted dwarf creating concepts for his masters' misuse, to whom ed bears a strong physical if not moral resemblance).
perhaps it isn't enough; personally, i'd like to seemore discussion about what the summit accomplished in terms of debt relief.
i've tumbled from the hoodoos at bryce canyon to rooms at the flamingo to this beachside rehearsal dinner.
(two characters choose codenames spelled with multiple xs and milligan doesn’t crack wise once.)
in any case, the issue culminates with a  bunch of superheroes (or superhero imitators) utterly failing in their mission  – morrison makes it clear that a different kind of hero will be needed.
there’s a word for this kind of story: fanfic.
it’s offered a rollicking story about angry golems and  subway pirates, albeit with a tragic undercurrent that’s never far from  the surface.
no, that's too snide - millar actually offers a  nice illustration of the process by which cynicism supports the status quo  under the guise of deflating the idealists.
morrison finds them in the seven unknown men, who appear to be agents of retcon, in-story explanations for the changes he is about to unleash.
july 25, 2005 in travel | permalink | comments (0) july 13, 2005
i was evacuated from an underground station once during a false alarm in 1999, shortly after thenail bombings.
speaking of literalized metaphors  and the symbolic order,cameron stewart confirms that in his vision of his ideal  state, baby brain is reading a book labeled "lacan.") ((incidentally, did the extranarrative panels divulging the fates of the  newsboy army remind anybody else of the extranarrative "interview"  panels ineightball #23, especially the ones where andy's victims  speak?
comics come to the library of congress editorial cartoonists, eisner tribute headline conference tenth annual international comic arts festival (icaf) west dining room, madison building, library of congress thursday, october 13 – saturday, october 15, 2005 the international comic arts festival, an annual conference devoted to the study of comics, comes to the library of congress this october for a three-day forum of panels, keynote speeches, artist talks, and exhibitions showcasing the cutting edge in work by comic artists and scholars alike.
september 22, 2005 in icaf | permalink | comments (7) september 16, 2005 three point five soldiers guardian #4 takes us to the midpoint of the seven soldiers storyline with a brilliant episode that offers equal parts of revelations of  the past and tantalizing hints of the future.
september 16, 2005 in comics, morrisonarama, seven soldiers | permalink | comments (5) not much blogging here lately between late-summer travel, the start of the semester, conference planning, and a national disaster that dwarfs my ability to say anything useful.
how you can show so much concern for porcelain and plastic... and show so little for flesh and blood") seems all too applicable to those who can get worked into a lather over analogies about torture or representations of torture but don't have any outrage to spare for theactual torture.
the garters are almost too much, utterly exploding the plausible  deniability that lets readers pretend superheroines aren’t sex  objects.
(naturally it's too early to say how the agenda did or didn't change after the  bomings but blair at least seems undaunted in his commitment.)
speaking of which...))
this is not an abstract problem; this is not somebody else's problem; and  those who imply that the british somehow deserved this because they have  committed the crime of tolerating muslims have sacrificed the most basic human  sympathy for the opportunity to score a cheap and false political point.
but morrison welded that framework to a contemporary portrayal of minority subculture, scientific anxiety, revolutionary iconography, collapsing relationships and ethnic cleansing that belatedly brought the hottest heroes of the 1970s into the present.
yet it's deuced odd, isn't it?
it's a classic morrison technique of holographic distribution in which each individual part reflects the themes of the whole.
apparently letting americans die needlessly only becomes a problem once you  startdoing it at home.
this year icaf celebrates its tenth anniversary with a symposium on editorial cartooning to be held on thursday, october 13.
it wasn't so long ago that these vultures were blubbering about our own tragedies and thanking the british for their tremendous show of support but that kindness hasn't been repaid; i guess africans aren't the only people looking for 100% debt relief.
blair deserves that slap and worse for following bush into optional war in iraq, even to the point of taking part in thefabrication of the cause for war.
zatanna:  a lot has been written about this  series’ apparent response to moore’spromethea, and the  similarities aren’t exactly subtle.
so there was a certain undeniable grandiosity to the proceedings, but grandiosity - hell, pomposity - for a good cause is better than invoking cynicism or derision as a safe, comforting, morally superior alternative to action, and that's exactly where many of the live 8 criticisms have been pitched from.
suddenly klarion’s society seems much more  carefully developed, if only glimpsed briefly, andklarion itself seems  less rushed than dense with meaning.
that indirectly  spawned an entire publishing line and a new direction in comics  scripting:  in other words, it unintentionally accomplished what morrison  is perhaps trying to do with seven soldiers.
july 13, 2005 in travel | permalink | comments (3) july 08, 2005 follow the leader i've been following the g-8 summit closely this week, hoping that last  weekend's call for african aid and debt relief would amount to more than just  anotherwell-meaning symbolic gesture.
i am not the beastmaster comics and culture commentary from some other guy named marc singer.
they're all junior versions of glamorous adult careers: quarterback!
(just his execution.)
(remember, this is jamesian subtlety by millar's standards.)
but simply by raising the standards to the laudable goal of ending african poverty, blair has raised our expectations for what our nations can and should do - unlike his american pal, who's lowered them so far that i briefly mistook his admission that global warming is a man-made problem for a major achievement and not a belated statement of the obvious.
but i have neither the time nor the  inclination to keep up with the inundation of words our political classes are  trying to pour into the space left by the receding floodwaters.
but to judge by their costumed identities, these kids already wanted to be adults, or at least a child's vision of adults.
you have my deepest condolences.
west dining room,  madison building, library of congress thursday, october 13 –  saturday, october 15, 2005 the international comic arts festival, an annual  conference devoted to the study of comics, comes to the library of congress  this october for a three-day forum of panels, keynote speeches, artist talks,  and exhibitions showcasing the cutting edge in work by comic artists and  scholars alike.
yet for all  morrison’s loudly advertised innovation, milligan’sx-force was the more radical book, perversely repurposing one of the most superfluous  mutant titles—one originally created for hack supreme rob  liefeld—into a savage satire on mass media, popular culture, and the  stuffy, self-important x-men franchise itself.
the comic doesn’t suffer for lack of skill; after a meandering and disappointing opening arc, milligan’s run has shaped up nicely as a clever character study.
morrison’s lessons are simpler - though also more  appropriate for the character, given her background in stage magic - but he  encodes them in plot and action, drastically curtailing the didacticism.
september 16, 2005 in comics, morrisonarama, seven soldiers | permalink |  comments (5) september 13, 2005 situational awareness not much blogging here lately between late-summer travel, the start of the  semester, conference planning, and a national disaster that dwarfs my ability  to say anything useful.
dirk deppey chronicled the transformation inthese essays for his new and improved comics journal last year.
i can't help it; i'm skeptical of calls to action that appear to be nothing more than symbolic gestures.
fromthe  dingbats of danger street.
others are pure plot speculation: was that zatara returning for his books?
the conflict is interesting because it exists within the heroes,  not just between them and their elderly enemy; if it didn't, the horrible crime  that sunders the newsboy army could never have happened in the first place.
this is morrison's preferred path for changing the superhero genre, the heteroglossia of technical homage and not the imposition of cruel or tawdry realism.
but some of the details i thought were missing turn out to be there after  all, lurking in the compression and waiting for later issues to explain them.
morrison’s lessons are simpler - though also more appropriate for the character, given her background in stage magic - but he encodes them in plot and action, drastically curtailing the didacticism.
if this comic were about iraq i'd have no objection to millar's points.
like the hero of one of those  postmodern novels his base claims september 11threndered irrelevant, bush has  decided to create his own reality from the comfort of his seemingly permanent  vacation.
other sponsors include the herblock foundation,  andrews mcmeel universal, jean schulz, dark horse comics, image comics, cartoon  books, and jay & silent bob's secret stash.
i love the moment when the lights go out as  the rain beats down and the sheeda assault begins; it's the first time the  crossover has felt truly momentous and truly scary since gwydion destroyed  zatanna's group or maybe since j. h. williams helped morrison finish off the  first, flawed group of seven soldiers.
it ends with a simple assertion of her and her fellow prisoners' worth as human beings, and their refusal to surrender that worth to their captors: i don't know who you are, or whether you're a man or a woman.
what else can i do? july 04, 2005 in comics, politics | permalink | comments (6) seven soldiers is grant morrison’s latest project, a massive thirty-part storyline comprised of seven linked miniseries and two bookends.
a few weeks later they sent me a letter asking me to contribute more money  to theirurgent action network, which sends appeals on behalf of prisoners of  conscience around the world.
since i clearly can't let go of the ruminations on figuration and symbolism in comics i think i may need to work it up into a proper book: morrison alone rates at least a chapter.
he also surveyed the aftermath, a task  that would daunt any reviewer this side ofpaul o’brien.
(it also wasn't that surprising given the staggered bimonthly release of each of the series, which can’t have been good for sales.)but now that they’ve reached their halfway point it’s become clear that not only are the individual series becoming more complex, the connections are increasing exponentially.
it’s been great so far, with lush art by simone  bianchi, but the half-finished plot means there’s less to discuss.
i'll letsimon reynolds explain: ...the song anthropomorphized ecstasy as a dickensian scoundrel who always  livens up the party.
you are  not forgotten" in five languages.
in both issues would-be realists try to punish those who create or dwell in worlds of fantasy or pleasure.
towards the end of book 2 the jailed and tortured evey hammond receives a  strikingly similar message of hope.
july 08, 2005 in politics | permalink | comments (0)
now just over one-quarter completed, with four of the  miniseries at their halfway points, the project has built up enough of a  critical mass that some of its intersections and larger preoccupations are  starting to become apparent.
in addition, icaf will host international comics artists paul grist (england) and fang cheng (china) and eighteen  academic presentations by comic art scholars from around the world.
this is both the blessing and the  curse of jumping in late in the game, so i’m going to dispense with the  summaries and jump straight into my comments.
try not to crack the internet in half while i'm gone, okay?
one of the weaknesses of klarion, and to a lesser  extent of seven soldiers in general, is that morrison throws out concepts so  quickly he doesn’t have time to develop them all; some good ones die on  the vine.
the second issue has been much better received, partially because it  contains no self-aggrandizing comparisons, though it quietly delivers on the  promise of misty’s comments in the first one.
two other quick notes on klarion, both trivial but both signs that  i’ve invested more time thinking about this series than any other.
when moore's words are written up there, pulled out of their emotional context, they can look just as maudlin as any rock-concert message of hope.
morrison is so smitten with this new look that he has one of the other characters tell zatanna it’s sensational; normally i hate that sort of thing, but damn it, he’s right.
actually, it was the manufactured, shoot-the-messenger furor following the release of that report that finally got me to send in my money; i hope amnesty's willingness to do the right thing and speak out against torture even in the face of such withering (and appalling) hostility and denial earned them many more new members.
icaf is also proud to present a tribute to the late comics pioneer will eisner, creator of the spirit and one of the inventors of the graphic novel, on saturday, october 15.
but the issues  might possess an even more important kind of self-sufficiency if even a  throwaway story like "siege at century hollow" can dramatize some of  the larger questions that dominate the narrative.
how about the importance of civic infrastructure?
is it the bait to reel  in the contributions, which conceivably do more good than the cards?
many of the journalists at blair's post-summit press conference today  expressed a palpable disappointment that the summit didn't accomplish more (the  notable exception being the gossip-obsessed american - sigh).
and then somehow i always end up thinking about the graphic novel and  soon-to-be-a-major-motion-picturev for vendetta.
klarion has the richest and strangest terrain of  any of the series thus far, and i wish he had given us more time to explore it.
"the anatomy  lesson" is comics’ most successful reinvention, one
either one is cold comfort to those who were caught in the attacks or know someone who was.
(jorge says "the world is not a playground, my dear, it's a battlefield.
morrison has updated the superficial trappings of the guardian and the newsboy legion for an age of private security forces, tabloid journalism, and online news, but at its heart this is fundamentally a kirby comic.
but some of the intersections are starting to approach shared themes, ones that morrison has enough subtlety to leave unspoken anywhere but the intersections.
and after their story ends (too quickly--my only complaint) we have the beautifully ominous final pages.
zatanna gives misty a  lecture/demonstration of magical technique and legerdemain,demonstration being exactly what was missing from so many of those promethea issues.
the eisner tribute will take place from 1:00 to 5:30 p.m. on  saturday, october 15.
x-force suffered a painful decline:  first from an ill-advised name change (reportedly so marvel wouldn’t have  to pay liefeld for the rights) that caused them to hemorrhage readers, then  from corporate interference that gutted a major storyline which might have  revitalized the book.
despite a chorus of "‘eezer goode,  ‘eezer goode" that sounded suspiciously like advocacy ("es are  good," get it?), the shamen disingenuously insisted that the song  wasn’t about drugs at all.
besides, some of my favorite posts here contain insane rants about thanos and "disco madness with mysterio."
others are pure plot  speculation:  was that zatara returning for his books?
in fact, it leads to the destruction of the government that tortures and kills her.
all in all it’s a smarter than average bit of  x-men soap opera.
interconnections:  i’ve resisted blogging about  seven soldiers until now because if morrison’s pronouncements were  accurate (and that is always a bigif) much of its innovation was  supposed to lie in the interconnections between the various series.
morrison recognizes the genre's flaws but he loves it anyway, warts and all.
after the first issue, i had thought the clash between the  witch-men’s parliament and the submissionaries was more explained than  shown, and ended before it had been given a chance to develop.
i can't help it;  i'm skeptical of calls to action that appear to be nothing more than symbolic  gestures.
perhaps this will be a homecoming of sorts.
what interests me is that while zatanna chastises promethea it’s also restaging, you guessed it,
the i am not the beastmaster american tour 2005 7/15  santa fe, nm 8/3    chicago, il 8/7   nashville, tn see you in three and a half weeks.
that doesn't mean he won't subject it to some dramatic changes.
perhaps it isn't enough;  personally, i'd like to seemore discussion about what the summit accomplished  in terms of debt relief.
i've put a hell of a lot of time into it, mostly because i keep crafting long exegeses like this post instead of those short, sharp bursts i somehow never acquired the knack for.
and i appreciate having had the forum.
both groups break down into murder; both times the violence is sparked by sex, or anxieties over sex (jorge control tells the police his wife has sex with the animatrons); both conflicts are played out as struggles of sober adult responsibility vs. childlike pleasure.
it says simply "do not be discouraged.
he hasn't mined  that vein as richly since the glory days offlex mentallo ("think  as hard as you like, earthman, you'll never be my intellectual equal!
well, not  entirely: if i want incisive commentary on current events i can always go  straight toold flash covers.
(and really, that's the greatest tragedy, isn't  it?
i will never hug you or cry with you or get drunk with you.
he won't look so tough the next time daredevil drops him under a train.
i, the counting tree!").
(incidentally, the froomkin article ends with a  discussion of how the bush administration has used katrina to hand out more  no-bid contracts to old friends.
the newsboy army is that project of miniaturization rendered even smaller, a "united nation of kids."
seven soldiers special #0:  this bookend  special sports typically accomplished art by j. h. williams iii, who adapts  himself perfectly to morrison’s metatextual style by drawing in a  pastiche that ranges from frank miller gritty urban vigilante to john severin  western.
this is not an abstract problem; this is not somebody else's problem; and those who imply that the british somehow deserved this because they have committed the crime of tolerating muslims have sacrificed the most basic human sympathy for the opportunity to score a cheap and false political point.
despite a chorus of "‘eezer goode, ‘eezer goode" that sounded suspiciously like advocacy ("es are good," get it?), the shamen disingenuously insisted that the song wasn’t about drugs at all.
how you can show so much  concern for porcelain and plastic... and show so little for flesh and  blood") seems all too applicable to those who can get worked into a lather  over analogies about torture or representations of torture but don't have any  outrage to spare for theactual torture.
but more than just demonstrating some higher meaning, the correlation between the newsboy army and century hollow appeals to me because it illustrateshow morrison imparts meaning--by distributing it throughout each individual part of the narrative.
but others have already praised the masters or sifted through the entrails to divine plot details (jog and the people over at barbelith do their usual excellent jobs) so there's no need to repeat that.
dispersing themes across different stories may be an effective and enjoyable narrative tactic but, contra morrison’s own ceaseless hype, it’s hardly innovative.
it's interesting to comparethis take on tony blair by comics creators mark  millar and sean philips withthis one by washington post columnist  jefferson morley.
it still remains to be seen if seven  soldiers is going to amount to anything other than seven well-conceived  character revisions, delivered through seven well-executed miniseries, and  united to develop a few common ideas about power, authority, and heroism.
the benefits of patronage?
the most accessible series for fans of standard superhero comics, although it works an odd twist on its inspiration.
some of those connections are fairly shallow, just elements of a shared continuity: klarion moving through the underground world shortly after the events ofguardian #2, cassandra craft revealing who the old man at the bus stop inshining knight was.
it's been sitting untouched on my desk ever since.
but more than just  demonstrating some higher meaning, the correlation between the newsboy army and  century hollow appeals to me because it illustrateshow morrison  imparts meaning--by distributing it throughout each individual part of the  narrative.
the project has been built so much around absence, i wonder what morrison  is going to do when he finally starts that seventh miniseries.
(jorge says "the world is not  a playground, my dear, it's a battlefield.
that claim was pretty much shot to pieces by the first installment ofshining knight.
jefferson morley effuses about blair's leadership, his ambition, his idealism, all the things millar says he's lost.
either one is cold comfort to those who were caught in the  attacks or know someone who was.
he's done this many times before, transparently  or subtly (i really should write sometime about how every issue ofanimal man ties into the plot or themes explicated in the final, transcendent arc),
and you thought "lucy in the sky with diamonds" was pretentious twee shit, didn’t you?
i kept waiting for big ben to explode.)
eric prevails i am not the beastmaster uk tour 2010 week 13: grant morrison and frank quitely, we3 recent comments marc on grant morrison:
but just in case you haven’t read them already, spoilers follow for all of the series.
jorge's revenge takes the form of a world in miniature of  terrordroids and the newsboy army's destroyer is named the terrible time  tailor.  is morrison covertly tilting the scales towards fantasy after  all--with the understanding that "fantastic" doesn't have to mean  "nice"?)
special events include a talk by  eisner biographerbob andelman; a screening of the documentary will eisner: the spirit of an artistic pioneer; a critical roundtable  on eisner's work; and a lecture bybenjamin herzberg, who  collaborated with eisner on his final graphic novels,fagin the jew and the plot.
in addition to asking for a donation, they included a small card - i'm sorry, a "message of hope" card - which they asked me to sign and return with the promise that they'd try to deliver it to a prisoner.
we know the witch-men are initiated with a  trip beyond the wicket gate to see the god croatoan and "find out the sad,  miraculous truth behind all the old stories."  their new parliament  threatens the submissionaries, who want to keep the town safe and pure by  sealing it off from the upper world, who interpret orders from croatoan by  staining the iron pages of his book with their own blood, who rule through the  fear of outside enemies and the fear of their god.
but it's almost enough to make me like tony
seven soldiers special #0: this bookend special sports typically accomplished art by j. h. williams iii, who adapts himself perfectly to morrison’s metatextual style by drawing in a pastiche that ranges from frank miller gritty urban vigilante to john severin western.
the second issue has been much better received, partially because it contains no self-aggrandizing comparisons, though it quietly delivers on the promise of misty’s comments in the first one.
from the first tumbleweed in new mexico everything in this trip  has been itself, only more so.
the connection  appeals to me because it would mean that, as withwe3, morrison and stewart are  willing to pinchany trick from any comic to spice up their  superheroic storytelling.
icaf is pleased to work in collaboration with the library of congress  prints & photographs division and the caroline and erwin swann foundation  for caricature and cartoon.
really, a perfect issue and one of the finest chapters of seven soldiers thus far; certainly the one that's got me most eager to see what happens  next.
morrison is so smitten with this new look that he  has one of the other characters tell zatanna it’s sensational; normally i  hate that sort of thing, but damn it, he’s right.
angst over their relationships.
the problem is that it’s only a bit of x-men soap  opera.
yet for all morrison’s loudly advertised innovation, milligan’sx-force was the more radical book, perversely repurposing one of the most superfluous mutant titles—one originally created for hack supreme rob liefeld—into a savage satire on mass media, popular culture, and the stuffy, self-important x-men franchise itself.
that's  just the way the system works and they just ease their conscience by singin'
morrison has updated the superficial trappings of the  guardian and the newsboy legion for an age of private security forces, tabloid  journalism, and online news, but at its heart this is fundamentally a kirby  comic.
but it's become impossible to talk about the summit without talking about yesterday's abominable terror attacks.
when moore's words are written up there, pulled out of their emotional  context, they can look just as maudlin as any rock-concert message of  hope.
a few weeks later they sent me a letter asking me to contribute more money to theirurgent action network, which sends appeals on behalf of prisoners of conscience around the world.
one of them tells the spider, "you shouldn’t be seeing any of this, but sometimes, in an emergency like this one, we have to let you locals into one or two of our secrets."
but i have to admit, lambasting a campaign for debt relief  because you don't care for pink floyd isn't so dissimilar from my reaction to  the message of hope, which is as much a recoiling from the style, from the  unbounded intimacy with strangers, from thename as it is a reasoned  doubt about the little card's practical effects.
the last panel suggests blair has abandoned that idealism and is simply trailing in bush's wake.
in the cruelest twist of fate, the new old marvel hired rob liefeld to dox-force .
july 13, 2005 in travel | permalink | comments (3)
since i clearly can't let go of the  ruminations on figuration and symbolism in comics i think i may need to work it  up into a proper book:  morrison alone rates at least a chapter.
later that night it's a show at the  viper room - we'll leave before the guns n' roses simulation takes the stage -  and the next evening at a hotel in santa monica with just a glimmer of an ocean  view i will watch as an actor whose work i know and like dances with my  in-laws.
i can say that morrison’s scripting is excellent, whether he’s writing sir justin’s dialogue in almost-understandable mock celtic ( another moore hallmark, reminiscent of the rannian language he invented for swamp thing) or transliterating it into english for us.
and any number of lines are creepily appropriate  today; v's injunction to lewis prothero ("admirable concern,  commander.
but it's nominally about the g-8 summit, where blair isn't cast so easily as bush's poodle.
this is the dilemma that milligan’s x-men and, by extension,  most dc and marvel superhero comics find themselves in these days.
inhis most recent post, doug links to this article in which thewashington post's dan froomkin observes that the mainstream media have finally started admitting whatthese folks were saying long ago.
(and, to follow my personal swamp thing obsession, i look at that panel of jake against the window and i think: "it's raining in new york tonight."
morley oversells his case for "tony blair, world president" but at least he's been paying attention.
in a sinister  bit of synchronicity, i received a package yesterday that included a touristy  london t-shirt.
we know the witch-men are initiated with a trip beyond the wicket gate to see the god croatoan and "find out the sad, miraculous truth behind all the old stories."
it wasn't so long ago that these vultures were blubbering about our own  tragedies and thanking the british for their tremendous show of support but  that kindness hasn't been repaid; i guess africans aren't the only people
back in 2001 grant  morrison’snew x-men and peter milligan’s x-force set a new paradigm for marvel comics’ top franchise, all but ending their  reliance on inscrutable continuity and interminable angst.
this confluence should tell us something, even it it's only that millar is a deliriously, exuberantly defeatist leftist too.
towards the end of book 2 the jailed and tortured evey hammond receives a strikingly similar message of hope.
the revelation that ed stargard is stuck in a state of permanent infancy is  a little more biting than these kirby tributes usually turn out (although not  moreso than mark millar's dr. krigstein inthe authority, a twisted  dwarf creating concepts for his masters' misuse, to whom ed bears a strong  physical if not moral resemblance).
california once again arranges itself to be extra californian.
dirk deppey  chronicled the transformation inthese essays for his new and improved comics journal last year.
i’m hoping (possibly against all odds) that at least some of these characters survive their apparent end; their hooks, especially the whip’s, are too good to lose.
morrison recognizes the genre's  flaws but he loves it anyway, warts and all.
most of them asked about the global warming part of the agenda, although more than a few were skeptical about the aid to africa.
i am glad the attacks didn't happen last weekend when london transport was  flooded with an extra 200,000 people.
now just over one-quarter completed, with four of the miniseries at their halfway points, the project has built up enough of a critical mass that some of its intersections and larger preoccupations are starting to become apparent.
here instead are the thoughts that  linger, the discoveries made, the reasons i so love this issue.
unlike most of those characters, reality has lashed back at him.
and after their story ends (too quickly--my only complaint) we have the  beautifully ominous final pages.
unlike so many other contemporary superhero comics, it’s not obsessed with nostalgia and it doesn’t attempt to revisit or recreate its own past.
"  but that, i  concede, is only my reaction and not anything the story appears to be  signalling.
these binaries of child and adult, pleasure and control, fantasy and  realism resonate throughoutseven soldiers.
but it's almost enough to make me like tony blair.
(the comic isn't any better written, as millar can't  even distinguish between bush's voice and blair's.
i hope that you escape this place.
the newsboy army is that project of miniaturization  rendered even smaller, a "united nation of kids."
i've tumbled from the hoodoos at bryce canyon  to rooms at the flamingo to this beachside rehearsal dinner.
well, except that the love triangle absolutely depends on uncontrollable contact power-absorption and shapeshifting.
the sun sets behind a beach house and a private helicopter buzzes low over the surf.
june 21, 2005 in comics, morrisonarama, seven soldiers | permalink |  comments (11) recent posts fanfare for the common man, part 2: the good old days fanfare for the common man faceless, mindless, shameless grant morrison: compiling the contents while you're waiting...
early reactions to seven soldiers were characterized by disappointment that the crossover wasn't living up to morrison's much-hyped claim that each miniseries,nay, each issue would be a standalone story.
but most of the criticisms of this series stem from one line near the end  of the first issue, where a would-be sorceror’s apprentice tells zatanna,  "i love the way you write about magic.
the card and the check go out in the mail tomorrow.
las vegas plays itself: la brea tar pits and the miracle mile, los angeles: yosemite valley from the merced river: and chicago, birthplace of those damned cows, restores my faith in public  art: august 14, 2005 in travel | permalink | comments (1) july 25, 2005 to the ocean by hard ways friday july 22.
but there's the rub:  the time i spend blogging is time i can't spend  writing academic articles or books or fiction or novels or anything else.
but simply by raising the standards to the  laudable goal of ending african poverty, blair has raised our expectations for  what our nations can and should do - unlike his american pal, who's lowered  them so far that i briefly mistook his admission that global warming is a  man-made problem for a major achievement and not a belated statement of the  obvious.
he hasn't mined that vein as richly since the glory days offlex mentallo ("think as hard as you like, earthman, you'll never be my intellectual equal!
and any number of lines are creepily appropriate today; v's injunction to lewis prothero ("admirable concern, commander.
i can say that morrison’s scripting is excellent, whether he’s  writing sir justin’s dialogue in almost-understandable mock celtic ( another moore hallmark, reminiscent of the rannian language he invented for swamp thing) or transliterating it into english for us.
they’re built upon the tropes and history of long-established superhero  universes yet they are with increasing frequency telling stories in which  superheroes are all but irrelevant.
blair set the tone this week - i don't think the terrorists succeeded in wresting it away from him, although american cable news did its damnedest to let them yesterday - and for once he set it for something worth doing.
in the  cruelest twist of fate, the new old marvel hired rob liefeld to dox-force .
instead we skip it entirely.
(the whip’s fetish outfit inseven soldiers #0 does much the same.)
century hollow was to be my 3-dimensional map of political and social reality, not your tawdry theme park!")