with god at the vanguard of our lives, life really becomes worth living.
listening… when you listen well to family members, you encourage them to talk about what’s most important to them.
so why not you, and why not now.
what heritage, legacy, or inheritance will you leave?
it takes a lifetime to build a reputation, but only moments to lose it.
what is in it for you, your child, the world at large, and your children’s children?
it comes from a heart of deep gratitude, which seeks  to please, not repay, or pay penance, to the god who loves me and has given his  all for my life and eternity.
perhaps the most important way to express yourself is to make time to communicate with your family.
i can only respond to  it by living in the moment, and being the obedient son
what will be our legacy and heritage?
it’s not about being enrolled in the school or a fancy college or receiving a piece of paper.
too often in our capitalistic society, we place too much emphasis on  financial achievement and too little on the importance of living a purpose  driven life.
why are we leave a legacy is as important as what we leave  as a legacy.
how many men have thrown it all away  in a quick but twisted attempt at some forbidden fruit?
people who learned this at a young age will be more likely to cope well with stress as adults.
find out which of your family members process in this way and you will have a key to unlocking their “code”.
it is often family that is left out.
so many things in our society are  disposable, and sadly, friends too often fall into that category.
it is not: - about attending church - about giving money - about being” good “ - about being religious - about being condemning, condescending, or arrogant about one’s faith - about religious activity, service, or lifestyle what it is about could take up several pages of a blog.
everyone needs someone to listen to them, someone who supports them and allows them to openly express feelings.
this is not good listening.
it will make you an even better father than you already are.
this is a big mistake.
- friends… the older some of us get, the less time we have for our friends.
there is far more you can do for them with quality  and quantity time.
acquiring and  keeping an inheritance for them is relatively easy, the true challenge is to  also keep them for by instilling a sense of value, faith, and a deep seated  heart of love for god and people.
the investment of encouragement can truly build up ourselves, our kids, our spouses, and our communities.
our future is our children.
there are four phases of empathetic listening, according to covey.
what would it feel like if you were a child in the midst of embarrassment, disappointment, or discouragement?
take time to invest in your friendships, both old and new.
it is, however, about being someone who is hungry to learn, willing to change, and ready to embrace new ways of looking at life and the universe.
this doesn’t mean that everything is a bed of roses; in fact christians suffer as much or more than others.
just simply providing for them does not make your family your  number one priority.
some people would rather see it in writing, so jot them a note or an e-mail.
- cuss and swear and scream?
be attentive to your face, tone of voice, and body language, because they communicate far more than your words.
respond with encouragement as soon as possible and preferably face-to-face.
tags: leaving a spiritual family legacy, money, nonmaterial things to do woth your kids, relationship values more important than money, things more important, things more important than money buy scott's book today featured video - tags action steps add new tag become a better father business children children more important than money communication dad dad leaving a family legacy dads down syndrome efective fathers encouragement family family and money family more important than money father father heart of god fathering fathers goal-setting goals god investment jesus leadership leaving a spiritual family legacy legacy listening love loving family money money more important than children parenting relationship scott hammond scott hammond become a better father speaker speaking success talking time time management toastmasters unconditional love - february 2012 m t w t f s s « jan 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 - now is the time… february 2012 m t w t f s s « jan 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 - recent posts - www.dadsez.com quote:”remember, happiness doesn’t depend on who you are or what you have; it depends solely upon what you think.
when a person can live this way, in a faith walk with god, all of life takes on a brand-new adventure and excitement, knowing that no matter what happens, i’m going to become closer and more like my father in each and every situation.
be encouraged to be a life-long encourager!!
when i talk about fathering, i think of how god the father deals with me.
we chase after many things in life, and we often de-value and under-invest in relationships which should have our focus and priority.
being able to discuss and vent angry feelings can keep those feelings from creating more severe problems such as alcohol or drug abuse, violence, stress, depression, or other emotional problems.
- your health… stress, poor diet, lack of exercise, poor relationships with you and your family… all of these can adversely affect your health.
- kids… investing in your kids is absolutely one of the best investments you can make.
- play the martyr and do the silent treatment?
i know i must love them unconditionally, be intentional by making them my  priority and focus, and to accept and respect and receive my children.
you may not agree with what your family member’s saying, but being willing to hear and listen indicates respect and honor.
these are the heart attitudes which demonstrate christ’s likeness.
so, the next time you’re faced with someone’s shortcomings, or your own, for that matter, what’s going to be different?
education… being a lifelong learner is a lifelong process.
this is the foundation for a great life, marriage and family.
as long as you have your mental capacities, you can keep  learning and building on what you already know.
if it is not sincere it will show regardless of what you say.
- describe how other people’s behavior affects you without blaming.
some people like verbal support, others prefer written, some people like small gifts, and for some just spending time with them is all the encouragement they require.
understanding how to relate to, love, care for, and communicate with your kids is vital to becoming a more fulfilled and complete person.
5 tools for effective families: #1, listening, part two the art of listening.
making positive comments publicly compounds the positive affect of encouragement.
we are all human, fallible, frail, weak, and prone to making all manner of mistakes.
what’s the sense of neglecting neighbors, since they can be sources of  friendship, if given a chance?
use your imagination when giving feedback, encouragement, or support and recognition for your children’s achievements.
” you” statements can stifle communication and create an accusatory atmosphere.
what will they say about you when you are gone?…and you and i will be gone one day!
i believe some of that legacy incorporates the following… - a foundation of faith in god - our/their hopes ,dreams and visions - learning contentment and satisfaction - children learning to know who they are in god - our kids understanding their strengths and weaknesses - to know they are loved - to understand fundamental knowledge and wisdom - to own and live out real values and ethics - to live a life of thankfulness and appreciation - to possess as their own a love for god, people, the earth, and all living things - to be able to apply wisdom, knowledge, and understanding, and so much more.
it stems from the realization of all that god has done for me, is doing,  and will do in the future.
- an attitude of openness and respect.
workaholism can be deadly.
we will learn to incrementally introduce the habits and tools to parent intentionally.
sometimes a person can find a solution or discover the sources of stress just by talking.
don’t forget  relationships.
friends… the older some of us get, the less time we have for our  friends.
- education… being a lifelong learner is a lifelong process.
don’t write them  off because they aren’t the same age, race, or occupation as you.
family… your spouse, your parents, and her kids should come first.
5 tools for effective families: #4, grace law or grace?
you and i as men need to relearn authority.
feedback helps to know whether you’ve understood what your family member means.
- family… your spouse, your parents, and your kids should come first.
practice just sitting and focusing on your child without any distractions, and it will transform your life, their life, and your relationship together.
- your neighbors… give the neighbors a chance.
some people get too busy climbing the success ladder and may not even make time for friends.
god doesn’t always use a stick to beat us when we make mistakes, so why are we as fathers so quick to undress and apply the stick of punishment to those around us, especially our kids?
copyright © 2012 · all rights reserved podcast powered by podpress v8.8.10.12
this can be a time where our kids get forgotten –or– actually the focus of our lives in a new and compelling way!
when a person can live this way, in a faith walk  with god, all of life takes on a brand-new adventure and excitement, knowing  that no matter what happens, i’m going to become closer and more like my  father in each and every situation.
this will mean having eyes to spot people doing things right, especially our children.
family… your spouse, your parents, and your kids should come  first.
will it be grace or law?
understanding how to relate to, love, care for, and  communicate with your kids is vital to becoming a more fulfilled and complete  person.
making a conscious effort to carve out time to talk with each individual, and together as a family, is key to the relational health of your family.
about being condemning, condescending, or arrogant about one’s faith about religious activity, service, or lifestyle what it is about could take up several pages of a blog.
whether it’s  poverty, divorce, suicide, teenage pregnancy, name your issue… you can  have a voice and be part of the solution rather than part of the problem.
5 tools for effective families: conclusion the big parenting question remains: “what is the essence, core  purpose, or bottom line of our parenting?
kids… investing in your kids is absolutely one of the best  investments you can make.
- be aware of your nonverbal communication.
relaxing, taking deep breaths, simply appreciating the life and the love  god has given me, realizing i can not add to this love.
many of us are verbal learners and need to process our issues and problems through talking.
you get one body, take care of it and treat it with the respect it deserves.
it isn’t always easy, and we live in a busy world, and many of us spend our days in a time crunch.
we  are all human, fallible, frail, weak, and prone to making all manner of  mistakes.
dads sometimes feel obligated to lecture, present solutions, and give an analysis instead of listening.
today as if it was your last… - in remember-ence of robert lewis hammond 1921-2004—birthday 1/29/21—would’ve been 91 years young today.
- describe your feelings.
people seem to resonate with honesty and being straight up with them.
to call this walk with god a “tool” is to misrepresent and  underestimate what’s being written here.
nonverbal gestures will expose true feelings.
tags: 5 tools for effective families, 5 tools of great parents, add new tag, become a better father, dads, economic times, effective families, effective parenting, encouragement, expressing yourself, family, grace, heritage, heritage and family, how to be a great parent, legacy, listening, love for god, loving family, loving family and kids, positive legacy, positive relationships, relationship values more important than money, relationships, relationships with kids, scott hammond, time relationship 10 things more important than money$$$ on fathers day june 9, 2008 by scott hammond filed under family, fathering, relationships leave a comment 10 things more important than money $$ remember, there are many things in life that are far more important than the size of your investment portfolio or the size of your latest paycheck.
if not, how can you make a difference by being an encouragement to both your kids and those around you in your world?
5 tools for effective families: conclusion the big parenting question remains: “what is the essence, core purpose, or bottom line of our parenting?
this is what i mean: i want to leave my children a life inheritance, but also toprepare my children for that inheritance.
you must ask yourself why you’d like to be a parent of the highest  quality.
be intentionally out of the box as your imagination figures out new ways to give creative encouragement.
we must be intentional and incremental in learning this model, as it will transform our parenting, and indeed, our lives.
did someone encourage you?
obeying god in the small stuff, being sensitive to details and doing the  right thing even when no one is looking.
these  are the starting points for a quality inheritance for generations to come.
your mind is a terrible thing to waste.
stephen covey notes that when someone speaks, our initial reaction is to evaluate and scrutinize them, the opposite of what we should do.
following up by writing a detailed letter with encouraging content can really uplift your children.
your neighbors… give the neighbors a chance.
what kind of legacy are you leaving behind?
- home - about scott - contact - free stuff - subscribe - video (new!)
share your feelings with” i” statements.
the  lack of discipline in making exercise, sleep, a good diet, and a healthy  lifestyle can be dangerous if not deadly as well.
having fun… people get so caught up in society’s money game  that wealth becomes an addiction, an obsession, and the purpose for their  existence.
- appreciating/valuing what you have… right now make a list of 10 things that you really appreciate.
we will explore listening, good communication, genuine encouragement, choosing to give grace, and laying a foundation of faith in god that governs all of whom we are and where we are going as a family.
some of us process our feelings or find ways to clarify and express our thoughts by simply talking to others.
how hard is it to schedule a starbucks coffee, pick up the phone, or write an e-mail?
how hard is it to schedule a  starbucks coffee, pick up the phone, or write an e-mail?
it’s amazing how everyone needs encouragement, but is so reluctant to give it.
writing about our relationship with god is extremely difficult.
part of our connection to the greater society is defined by our neighborhoods, which are full of neighbors— who could be friends we haven’t met yet.
be sure to save a difficult problem-solving conversation for times when you’re not totally tired or fatigued.
at the end of our lives, what would we like to leave behind and pass on to our children?
- your strategic personal plan - categories - dad sez - every day dad book - family - fathering - goal-setting - health - podcast - relationships - religion - sales - scott hammond - shopping - speaking - uncategorized - blogroll - every day dad: the guide to becoming a better father - free tools from scott - great presenting & speaking - the best quote of all-time - admin - archives - february 2012 - january 2012 - december 2011 - november 2011 - october 2011 - september 2011 - august 2011 - july 2011 - june 2011 - may 2011 - april 2011 - february 2011 - january 2011 - december 2010 - november 2010 - october 2010 - september 2010 - august 2010 - june 2010 - may 2010 - april 2010 - march 2010 - february 2010 - january 2010 - december 2009 - november 2009 - october 2009 - september 2009 - august 2009 - july 2009 - june 2009 - may 2009 - april 2009 - march 2009 - february 2009 - january 2009 - december 2008 - november 2008 - october 2008 - september 2008 - august 2008 - july 2008 - june 2008 - may 2008 - april 2008 - march 2008 - february 2008 - january 2008 - december 2007 - november 2007 - october 2007 - september 2007 - august 2007 - july 2007 - june 2007 - may 2007 jump to top of page · back to home · visit scottpresents.com to book scott to speak at your event.
e-mail is suitable for doing this as well, as kids are often more tech savvy than we.
tags: dad leaving a family legacy, leaving a spiritual family legacy, noney is important material things, nonmaterial things to do with your kids, relationship values more important than money 10 things more important than money $$ july 20, 2007 by scott hammond filed under relationships 5 comments remember, there are many things in life that are far more important than the size of your investment portfolio or the size of your latest paycheck.
getting caught up in your career and working endless hours  can also lead to neglect of one’s health.
this only damages a relationship.
they only come with a genuine long-term walk with him.
the difference here is:”  god works all things together for good for those who love him and are called  according to his purpose.”
but what gives you and me the right when we are tired and frustrated to dole out law in the spirit of anger?
the art of listening lies in understanding that to be an effective father, leader, spouse, or any other role we must not only care about what others have to say, but also how they feel.
despite our overall affluence, we still lament material things we lack rather than appreciating and valuing the material and nonmaterial things we do have.
and then i realize his kindness, patience, and love and see how short i fall as i deal with others.
how many wealthy people aren’t healthy people who spend far too much time and energy chasing promotions, money, and possessions.
whether it’s poverty, divorce, suicide, teenage pregnancy, name your issue… you can have a voice and be part of the solution rather than part of the problem.
we need to relearn the father heart of god, and how that applies to our leadership and authority over those for whom we have responsibility.
they build trust and relationships and they give you ownership of what’s being said:” i feel-______”
do you… - yell and raise your voice?
5 tools for efffective families: #1, listening communication has two parts: - listening and - expressing yourself both must occur for communication to be successful.
how many men have thrown it all away in a quick but twisted attempt at some forbidden fruit?
this is an investment in your children that far outweighs money or possessions.
why are we leave a legacy is as important as what we leave as a legacy.
it is, however, about being someone who is hungry  to learn, willing to change, and ready to embrace new ways of looking at life  and the universe.
a good listener should not feel obligated to advise, analyze, or have all the answers.
to catch them doing something right and speak a word of encouragement is a powerful tool.
you must ask yourself why you’d like to be a parent of the highest quality.
now is the time to take that trip, go for that ride, or go and jump on the trampoline…
we’d make a better choice of moving forward, forgiving the offense and the offender, and resolving the problem.
don’t forget relationships.
check out scott's newest book, every day dad .
during busy, hectic times, it’s especially important to plan a few minutes when everyone can be together, or when you can be alone with a family member without interruption.
just remember your kids need your full attention, your patience, and a listening ear, so listen well when they speak.
why do we do what we do when it comes to our parenting?
this is an opportunity to access and really decide what is the “main thing”.
what do we want to leave behind and instill our children, and why?
your kids can save and refer to it at a later date for needed encouragement.
it’s just this: the fruit of the spirit is love, joy, patience,  kindness, goodness, gentleness, and faithfulness, and self-control…  against such there is no law.”
we need to be good repenters.
tags: 5 tools for effective families, 5 tools of great parents, add new tag, become a better father, dads, economic times, effective families, effective  parenting, encouragement, expressing yourself, family, grace, heritage,  heritage and family, how to be a great parent, legacy, listening, love for god,  loving family, loving family and kids, positive legacy, positive relationships,  relationship values more important than money, relationships, relationships  with kids, scott hammond, time relationship 10 things more important than money$$$ on fathers day june 9, 2008 by scott hammond filed under family, fathering,  relationships leave a comment 10 things more important than money $$ remember, there are many things in life that are far more important than  the size of your investment portfolio or the size of your latest paycheck.
think about how you would feel.
getting caught up in your career and working endless hours can also lead to neglect of one’s health.
check out the interpretation of the message you are getting.
don’t just say “good job”, but rather provide details and specifics; showing someone that you’re paying attention can be encouraging in and of itself.
your  community is full of opportunities for you to volunteer, donate time or money,  and get involved.
the harder part of attentiveness is putting aside your opinions and thoughts and conclusions until you’ve really heard what the speaker is trying to say.
- a validating response.
i believe some of that legacy incorporates the following… a foundation of faith in god our/their hopes ,dreams and visions learning contentment and satisfaction children learning to know who they are in god our kids understanding their strengths and weaknesses to know they are loved
relationships that are fully orbed or just a fat portfolio?
our goal should be to nurture our children and help them flourish: to be the best they can be.
thegiant difference is having a heart of repentance.
we need to not get caught up in the disciplinarian model and playing the heavy, which is so common in our society.
but we’ll start with the following: knowing and understanding god’s word–the bible–reading  and meditating on it regularly understanding and having a genuine salvation/saving relationship with god  by faith in christ being a person who prays on a regular basis, who has two-way conversations  with god being a person who’s quick to repent, be humble, and truly make  things right, admitting it when wrong being a person who’s willing to serve others, even at their own  expense living an obedient life, not out of obligation, but out of thankfulness  and deep gratitude for all god has done allowing god’s full expression in me, in my thoughts, my deeds, my  words, my motivation, my attitude, my resources, and so much more being a person who puts my walk with god as my number one priority in  life, through prayer, bible study, praise, worship, sharing my faith, serving  my church and community and fellow humans.
sometimes you don’t want to hear what’s being said, choosing to be annoyed instead of understanding the other person’s view.
we can end up with lots of toys and turn out to be pretty unhappy people… big mistake.
in other words, we need to be heard.
despite our overall  affluence, we still lament material things we lack rather than appreciating and  valuing the material and nonmaterial things we do have.
effective listening encompasses the following: - attentiveness.
listening and responding with concern and understanding may be all the help needed.
we cannot afford to overlook this key life habit.
december 12, 2007 by scott hammond filed under fathering leave a comment remember, there are many things in life that are far more important than the size of your investment portfolio or the size of your latest paycheck.
take time to  invest in your friendships, both old and new.
part of our connection to the greater society is  defined by our neighborhoods, which are full of neighbors— who could be  friends we haven’t met yet.
it costs so little to give, but can yield such high dividends.
to call this walk with god a “tool” is to misrepresent and underestimate what’s being written here.
these can be public as well.
what will they say about you when you are gone?…and you and i will  be gone one day!
acquiring and keeping an inheritance for them is relatively easy, the true challenge is to also keep them for by instilling a sense of value, faith, and a deep seated heart of love for god and people.
what’s the sense of neglecting neighbors, since they can be sources of friendship, if given a chance?
putting words into writing not only reinforces oral comments, but also provides a tangible document.
what isn’t working now?
our lord never modeled that type of authoritarianism.
your body language gives you away every time.
like curly in the movie “city slickers” asks: “ what is that one thing?“-that thing that defines and motivates your life?
it makes for  stability, a joy, and the love that permeates a family and a marriage with the  sweetness and a sanity that is rare and precious.
how do you deal with your children and those around you when you’re angry, frustrated, tired, and burned out?
solving social problems… how can you be a voice in society for  those who do not have the ability to speak for themselves?
but the experts agree, when we take time to listen we improve relationships, promote an atmosphere of cooperation and encourage creative thinking, and even save money by avoiding costly errors caused by miscommunication.
here are some tips to use.
too often in our capitalistic society, we place too much emphasis on financial achievement and too little on the importance of living a purpose driven life.
the word “sincere” is from the greek meaning “without filler”.
i’ve found that honesty is always the best policy.
- every day dad - dad sez - every day dad book - family - fathering - goal-setting - health - podcast - relationships - religion - sales - scott hammond - shopping - speaking - uncategorized how to be a great parent in tough economic times–5 tools for effective families june 16, 2008 by scott hammond filed under family, fathering, goal-setting, health, relationships, speaking 2 comments we are all suffering from the realities of the ecomomic downturn and we as parents need to stop and figure out what is really important.
some people get too busy climbing the success laddar and may not even make time for friends.
listening must come from the hearer.
appreciating/valuing what you have… right now make a list of 10  things that you really appreciate.
your community is full of opportunities for you to volunteer, donate time or money, and get involved.
i want to leave my children a large heritage: a legacy for generations to come.
some people get too busy climbing the success laddar and may not even  make time for friends.
be careful to understand that we’re not speaking about perfection.
they only come with a genuine long-term  walk with him.
resist the temptation to be a pleaser, always trying to tell people what you think they want to hear.
be specific, rather than general.
what is in it for you, your child, the world at large, and your  children’s children?
our job as fathers and parents becomes paramount and hugely important for our kids!!
do not exaggerate a person’s competence, achievements, or potential.
it’s easy to get careless about really listening, but listening is at least as important as talking.
the lack of discipline in making exercise, sleep, a good diet, and a healthy lifestyle can be dangerous if not deadly as well.
this lets the other person know you are ready for more listening.
- having fun… people get so caught up in society’s money game that wealth becomes an addiction, an obsession, and the purpose for their existence.
he’s asked that i be - utilizing the gifts and the resources he’s given me in the way that he leads me to do so - having a heart attitude and disposition that seeks to glorify god in every aspect of my life much of this has to do with what i call a “heart attitude”, the core belief system that governs all behaviors, words, deeds, and attitudes.
your reputation… a good name is to be had above riches.
offer suggestions and remember that constructive criticism, couched in a spirit of encouragement, can be inspiring as a complement.
when is the last time you took that bike ride or camping trip–
that is the question.
i can only respond to it by living in the moment, and being the obedient son
this means that even the worst challenges,  problems, and disasters are actually blessings in disguise as we trust god to  work it all together for good.
active listening does not come naturally.
and we must do this with the goal of helping.
some people get too busy climbing the success ladder and may not even  make time for friends.
at the end of our lives, what would we like to leave behind and pass on to  our children?
what would you like to see start working?
- dole out corporal punishment in the name of training, control, and authority… in other words, how to we use our authority?
- the fourth stage is a combination of the second and third stages, to rephrase content and reflect feelings.
- clarifying meaning.
what is on your list?
we chase after  many things in life, and we often de-value and under-invest in relationships  which should have our focus and priority.
these are the starting points for a quality inheritance for generations to come.
instead, we should focus on empathetic listening with the intent to understand
- obeying god in the small stuff, being sensitive to details and doing the right thing even when no one is looking.
to understand fundamental knowledge and wisdom to own and live out real values and ethics to live a life of thankfulness and appreciation to possess as their own a love for god, people, the earth, and all living  things to be able to apply wisdom, knowledge, and understanding, and so much more.
what will they say about you after you are gone?…and we all will be someday!
your mind is a terrible thing  to waste.
give feedback or check your interpretation of what is being said.
take the time and make the time to communicate today.
we must be intentional if we are to be lifelong encouragers.
our job as fathers and parents becomes paramount and hugely important for  our kids!!
we can end  up with lots of toys and turn out to be pretty unhappy people… big  mistake.
so let’s start with what it isnot.
offering encouragement takes extra effort and does not happen accidentally.
paying attention and putting aside what you are doing shows the speaker that you intend to listen.
become a better father™ ·
it’s not about being enrolled in the school or a fancy college or  receiving a piece of paper.
how many wealthy people aren’t healthy people who spend far  too much time and energy chasing promotions, money, and possessions.
5 tools for effective families: #2, expressing yourself expressing yourself… you may assume other family members know your needs, feelings, and opinions without you telling them.
in the “5 tools for effective families “we will explore how to nurture our kids by setting a foundation of best practices.
5 tools for effective families: introduction what is it that we as parents want to leave with our kids after we’re gone?
- the first is to mimic content, repeating exactly what the speaker has said - the second stage is to rephrase the content to what was said in our own words - third, you may reflect feelings or make a non-judgmental statement about the speaker’s emotions, empathizing with what or how he feels.
this involves body language, posture, facial expressions, and genuinely showing readiness for more communication dads tend to be natural lecturers.
it stems from the realization of all that god has done for me, is doing, and will do in the future.
so long a focus of your kids bugging you?
be especially attentive to the needs of your kids.
he’s asked that i  be utilizing the gifts and the resources he’s given me in the way that  he leads me to do so having a heart attitude and disposition that seeks to glorify god in every  aspect of my life much of this has to do with what i call a “heart  attitude”, the core belief system that governs all behaviors,  words, deeds, and attitudes.
if you have kids or a spouse who is thusly wired, you would do well in heeding the advice above.
with god at the vanguard of our lives, life  really becomes worth living.
but relying on mind reading may result in: - disappointment - frustration - resentment - loneliness or hurt here are some guidelines for expressing yourself clearly.
why is intentional parenting so important, vital and a key priority?
encouragement needs to be: - intentional.
i want to leave my children a large heritage: a legacy for generations to  come.
more importantly, how will they live when you are gone?
i know i must love them unconditionally, be intentional by making them my priority and focus, and to accept and respect and receive my children.
i have a big vision for this stuff.
encouragement is a powerful gift, which we need to receive and give on a daily basis.
5 tools for effective families: #5, a relationship with god the fifth and most important “tool” is a genuine relationship with god, both as an individual and as a family.
it makes for stability, a joy, and the love that permeates a family and a marriage with the sweetness and a sanity that is rare and precious.
- relaxing, taking deep breaths, simply appreciating the life and the love god has given me, realizing i can not add to this love.
but herein lays the challenge: i’d like to leave an inheritance for my children and  tokeep it for them, but i also need to keep them for it.
december 12, 2007 by scott hammond filed under fathering leave a comment remember, there are many things in life that are far more important than  the size of your investment portfolio or the size of your latest paycheck.
the difference here is:” god works all things together for good for those who love him and are called according to his purpose.”
don’t write them off because they aren’t the same age, race, or occupation as you.
your health… stress, poor diet, lack of exercise, poor  relationships with you and your family… all of these can adversely  affect your health.
it all begins with relationship building on a quality life foundation that results in emotional health and well-being of our families.
this doesn’t mean that everything is a bed of roses; in fact  christians suffer as much or more than others.
search the website enews & updates sign up to receive breaking news as well as receive other site updates!
- solving social problems… how can you be a voice in society for those who do not have the ability to speak for themselves?
as long as you have your mental capacities, you can keep learning and building on what you already know.
being believable, authentic, transparent, and genuine will help you build trust.
a family environment can provide a safe place for its members to share feelings, thoughts, ideas, theories, dreams, and hopes.
he did everything in love, including correction, chastisement, teaching, and encouragement.
i’ve found many times that listening sets the stage for solving problems, great relationships, and genuine peace in our family.
let’s be more intentional in giving it to our kids, as it will help them with the tools they need to become better adjusted, more well rounded and high achieving adults.
this means that even the worst challenges, problems, and disasters are actually blessings in disguise as we trust god to work it all together for good.
what is your answer?
just simply providing for them does not make your family, your number one priority.
- your reputation… a good name is to be had above riches.
you get one body, take care  of it and treat it with the respect it deserves.
- family… your spouse, your parents, and her kids should come first.
when this happens, make it a point to remain focused on what the speaker is saying, actively participating in and practicing the stages of empathetic listening.
just simply providing for them does not make your family, your number one  priority.
one of a human’s greatest needs is psychological survival, to be understood, affirmed, validated, and appreciated.
encouragement must not be unmerited praise or flattery.
it’s quick to humble, turn, pray, and make course corrections when we discover we have sinned against god or people.
worse yet, have they given up bugging and nagging you knowing it goes nowhere?
carnegie - legacy, dying, and regrets - live
the end goal is that we may be able to leave a legacy and heritage for our children and their children as well.
all of us need to work to be more intentional listeners.
but herein lays the challenge: i’d like to leave an inheritance for my children and tokeep it for them, but i also need to keep them for it.
tags: add new tag, become a better father, christian family, dad leaving a  family legacy, family, leaving a spiritual family legacy, loving family, loving  family and kids, money, relationship values more important than money, scott  hammond, scott hammond become a better father, the family, things more  important than money 10 things more important than money….
and remember, it’s hard to listen well when strong emotions are in the way.
it takes a  lifetime to build a reputation, but only moments to lose it.
here are some ideas to break the paradigm, the lethargy, and the rut…now and forever.
it comes from a heart of deep gratitude, which seeks to please, not repay, or pay penance, to the god who loves me and has given his all for my life and eternity.
these are the heart attitudes which  demonstrate christ’s likeness.
it’s just this: the fruit of the spirit is love, joy, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, and faithfulness, and self-control… against such there is no law.”
5 tools for effective families: #3, encouragement mastering the art of encouragement.
there is far more you can do for them with quality and quantity time.
it’s okay to be angry, and its okay to not like injustice, disobedience, immaturity, and some of the zany things kids do in their selfishness.
tags: add new tag, become a better father, christian family, dad leaving a family legacy, family, leaving a spiritual family legacy, loving family, loving family and kids, money, relationship values more important than money, scott hammond, scott hammond become a better father, the family, things more important than money 10 things more important than money….
this is what i mean: i want to leave my children a life inheritance, but  also toprepare my children for that inheritance.
this walk with god is the life-giving, dominant feature of the dedicated  christian family and individual.
news feedcomments welcome to scott hammond's blog at becomeabetterfather.com.
so many things in our society are disposable, and sadly, friends too often fall into that category.
but we’ll start with the following: - knowing and understanding god’s word–the bible–reading and meditating on it regularly - understanding and having a genuine salvation/saving relationship with god by faith in christ - being a person who prays on a regular basis, who has two-way conversations with god - being a person who’s quick to repent, be humble, and truly make things right, admitting it when wrong - being a person who’s willing to serve others, even at their own expense - living an obedient life, not out of obligation, but out of thankfulness and deep gratitude for all god has done - allowing god’s full expression in me, in my thoughts, my deeds, my words, my motivation, my attitude, my resources, and so much more - being a person who puts my walk with god as my number one priority in life, through prayer, bible study, praise, worship, sharing my faith, serving my church and community and fellow humans.
say what you mean in a simple, direct way.
just simply providing for them does not make your family your number one priority.
it’s quick to humble, turn, pray, and make course corrections when we  discover we have sinned against god or people.
this walk with god is the life-giving, dominant feature of the dedicated christian family and individual.
we need to learn the authority of jesus, based in love, patience, kindness, gentleness, goodness, and self-control.