© 2012 all rights reserved.
so it is not lightly that we have decided a few times to produce non-open software, such as the mysql monitor introduced some years ago.
we have been experimenting with a variety of business models around foss (dual licensing, support only, simple subscriptions, different binaries for community and enterprise, non-open source features) to find the best one.
given the size and nature of this move, i don't begrudge sun anything in its commitment to open source.
(score:5, informative) by gquigs (913879) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @07:46pm (#23098386)
anybody who says otherwise has an axe to grind.
and the open source community in general.
sun has not asked us to do this or that.
- this is great news....
if we for whatever reason would not do that, we would risk losing users to other open source databases or risk seeing a fork of our own product.
there may be more comments in this discussion.
- - re: (score:3, interesting) by tgatliff (311583) writes:
in/create an account comments filter: - all - insightful - informative
they can't do that to mysql.
call it a necessary evil if you like.
rather a fancy new backup add-on is being released to enterprise edition, and possibly added to the community version later.
submission: sun to begin close sourcing mysql mysql reverses decision on closed source is mysql's community eating the company?
we are immensely thankful for all the support and contributions that we have received in our 13-year history.
each time we make more money, we hire more developers to develop gpl code.
i was hoping that sun would reverse that trend.
so what, so is gtk, most of gnome and probably 80% of what you and joe-sixpack considers to be "opensource" in "linux".
the editors can't even be bothered to read the link and verify the information.
the mysql server could not have evolved as much as it did (not that i am saying it has evolved perfectly) if we hadn't had a revenue stream to fund the hiring of developers and others.
the /. summary is misleading.
the only other major fork i can think of would be the *bsd forks, open, net and free.
our partners and customers think it is great.
we open sourced the falcon storage engine.
share twitter facebook - - re:not that i begrudge them a right to make a buck (score:5, informative) by andersbergh (884714) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @07:42pm ( #23098344)
the only thing that sun will achieve in this change is a fork...
100 of 509 comments loaded twitter  facebook mysql sun flamebait
as a reliable source of tech news.
sun will begin with close sourcing  the backup solutions to mysql, and will continue with more advanced features.
while people jokingly call open source developers as communists or hippies, in reality they are capitalists at heart.
maybe if we do it enough, the editors will start to get a clue.
it is not a quesiton of close sourcing any existing code, nor anything in the core server.
let me clarify some facts: *
no new comments can be posted.
or in fact, sun has asked us the opposite - i.e. whether we should not read the rest of this comment...
we need to find a model that allows us to produce a ton of great code under gpl while having the financial strength to do all this.
as much as these "old" companies claim they understand where the industry is headed, they really have no clue....
parent share twitter facebook - beryl (score:3, interesting) by gazzonyx (982402) writes: what about the compiz, beryl, fusion fiasco?
ah, well that's not so bad then.
because the main backup functionality goes into the main server under gpl, anyone can of course use the api and build their own add-ons or other modifications.
or opensparc (you can download and implement their latest processors).
when there are so many good alternatives!
journal sun will only develop and release certain features in the enterprise version, specifically relating to online backup, management, and other advanced features.
thanks for all the comments on this.
share twitter facebook - mysql has been drifting towards closed source for (score:3, insightful) by pinchduck (199974) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @10:24pm ( #23099732) awhile.
-- oscar wilde trademarks property of their respective owners.
any way you look at it, it is still capitalism and still a company trying to earn a profit.
with oracle owninginnodb, and it being gpl, does this mean that mysql will be removing it to introduce these features?
i hope to cover that in a separate posting.
homepage journal marten replied already: marten mickos says: share twitter facebook april 16th, 2008 at 17:28:26 thanks for all your comments on our business model.
as an open source developer you actually want this to happen, so that all of your hard work is paid off finally.
comments owned by the poster.
personally, i think postgresql is a better package than mysql,
gp is right, article is a troll.
close binspam dupe notthebest offtopic slownewsday stale stupid fresh funny insightful interesting maybe offtopic flamebait troll redundant overrated insightful interesting informative funny underrated descriptive typo dupe error slashdot - ask slashdot - book reviews - games - idle - yro - developers - cloud - hardware - linux - management - mobile - science - security - storage 628526 story sun may begin close sourcing mysql features 509 posted by samzenpus on wednesday april 16 2008, @07:37pm from the closing-up dept.
the reason is that we have an ambition not only to produce foss code, but also to be a profitable business that can exist for a long time.
if mysql is closed up, oss developers may choose to drop support for it.
marten previously ceo of mysql, now svp at sun share twitter facebook - mysql & foss (score:5, insightful) by martenmickos (467191) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @08:31pm (#23098824)
you still have employees that expect a paycheck.
at all times, because the main backup functionality goes into the core server under gpl, anyone can of course use the api and build their own add-ons or other modifications.
in this work, we feel we have been able to produce enormous benefits to the world in the form of gpl software.
share twitter facebook - suns contribution to open source
geeknet, inc. - faq - story archive - hall of fame - advertising - terms - privacy - about - feedback if you have problems or questions with slashdot, email us at feedback at this domain.
writes:  on wednesday april 16 2008, @09:17pm (#23099196)
java not full open source where have you been?
as long as it doesn't use source code from the closed source fork of it.
we will introduce backup functionality for all users (community and enterprise) under gpl in version 6.0.
share twitter facebook - mrghemp (score:5, insightful) by mrghemp (189288) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @08:45pm (#23098928)
the article claiming opensolaris isn't really open source bases it on the lack of community and ideology.
when she realised that the toy didn't work without the batteries, she understood the meaning of - - re:you can't effectively close-source anything gpl (score:2, insightful) by andersbergh (884714) writes: how could you fork code that hasn't been released in the first place?
home wind-power turbines make headway
you try to earn money via charging for tech support or donations, failing that you try to get some company like sun to buy your code and pay off your developers to release the code from open source.
byrossz (67331) writes:  on wednesday april 16 2008, @10:13pm (#23099662)
but that wouldn't stop open source developers from writing new code to put features back in the open source version.
share twitter facebook - sun to begin close sourcing mysql (score:5, funny) by brianc (11901)
only available if you're paying canonical for support.
it seems the headlines and articles have been getting things wrong more often lately...
sun may begin close sourcing mysql features 509 posted by samzenpus on wednesday april 16 2008, @07:37pm from the closing-up dept.
also red hat enterprise is different from red hat fedora.
of course i'm hoping the first part is a joke too.
share twitter facebook - geez louise (score:3, insightful) by yomegaman (516565) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @11:30pm (#23100224)
but that doesn't seem to happen as often anymore...
writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @08:09pm (#23098626)
you want a company to buy out your work and pay you for it eventually.
i did a lot of research into open source business plans myself in college.
parent share twitter facebook - - re: (score:3, insightful) by jimicus (737525) writes: well, yes
i would hope we could please all, but i am afraid we cannot.
ubuntu has landscape, a tool for managing a number of ubuntu desktops.
we have open sourced mysql cluster which was an advanced closed-source database engine at ericsson.
if it's under the gpl, we can always fork it into a new open source product called oursql.
suse plugs into zenworks - most certainlynot f/oss.
that's the key difference between the gpl and permissive licenses like bsd and mit.
it was developed by a company and released as an open source product.
slashdot archived discussion moderate moderator help
journal i'd like you to try to name another company off the top of your head that has contributed to oss like sun has.
that's not what the linked blog post says, basically what they're doing is developing new features to be put in mysql 6.0 enterprise, and these _new_ features won't show up in community.
score: 5 4 3 2 1 0 -1 more login nickname: password: public terminal forgot your password?
additionally we will develop high-end add-ons (such as encryption, native storage engine-specific drivers)
share twitter facebook - - re: (score:3, informative) by orange crush (934731) writes:
i solved that with my 3 yo daughter by taking the batteries out of her toy and telling her that the toy is hers, but thebatteries were mine.
i wish them the best of luck, but i will make sure i do what is best for me and my clients.
(score:5, insightful) by poet (8021) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @07:39pm (#23098308)
granted, it only lasted, what a couple of months or so, and i'm glad that every was able to humble themselves and work it all out... but it still was a fiasco!
* we are trying to be fully open and transparent with our decision-making in these areas * we have a full commitment to produce the core mysql server under gpl * we are actively listening to your input
i mean you spend years supporting the open source community for free and writing a lot of code without even being paid for it.
an anonymous reader writes"from the mysql user's conference, sun has announced, and former ceo marten mickos has confirmed, that sun will beclose sourcing sections of the mysql code base.
share twitter facebook - harsh judgement (score:5, insightful) by irtza (893217) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @07:44pm (#23098362)
not to mention that sun is not the only one doing interesting things with mysql ... for example at the conference i saw a presentation on maria, a myisam-based storage engine that supports transactions.
but, we wanna have all that new features open too..
the terms of the license explicitly state that you must provide source code with any modified or derived version you distribute.
the summary is bad...
no comment regarding xfree86/xorg.
java is pretty neat, too.
the /. summary clearly is trying to scare us all into thinking that existing parts of mysql would somehow be turned into a closed-source product.
i myself would say that it had merely been detected.
all, i tried to clarify the facts in another posting a moment ago: http://developers.slashdot.org/comments.pl?sid=525246&cid=23098626 here i will discuss the business model considerations, mysql's commitment to free and open source software (foss), and why we made the decision we made.
just that one version went commercial and the other went open source.
[hxfu.org] check it out.
that we will deliver to customers in the mysql enterprise product only.
eventually, the kid's gonna snatch it off the adult, clutch it to his chest possessively and and yell"mine!"
disclaimer: i am currently attending the mysql conference, but i am not affiliated with sun in any way.
delete - get more comments - 100 of 509 loaded perhaps, after all, america never has been discovered.
sun has had a very poor history of actually open sourcing anything.
it's just that we won't be able to integrate any of their proprietary new features that are not under the gpl.
we are listening attentively.
or open solaris, including zfs.
sun has had a very poor history of  actuallyopen sourcing anything."
the inside story of the armed robot pullout rumor
i went to firehose to vote this story down with the reason "not the best".
editors start correcting this, because if the stories become more and more inaccurate... we won't be able to trust /.
java - i am running the icedtea free software version right now opensolaris - might not be gpl, but it still qualifies as free software...
yes, let's forget about java, that was recently gpl'd.
homepage the title of this article is a bit dramatic and incorrect.
that one's open source but such an absolute dog to set up that you'd need your head examined if you tried doin - - re:not that i begrudge them a right to make a buck (score:5, insightful) by anthony boyd (242971) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @08:08pm ( #23098612)
parent share twitter facebook - - - re:harsh judgement (score:5, interesting) by an dochasac (591582) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @11:18pm (#23100132)
in the end they want equal pay for equal work.
(score:3, informative)
it isn't mysql that is going to be closed-sourced, it's just that sun will develop additional products that mysql customers will be able to buy and use with their gpl mysql server if they so choose.
parent share twitter facebook - re:harsh judgement (score:5, insightful) by alpha830rulz (939527) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @11:09pm (#23100050)
*unless* you are the sole copyright holder to the gpled work and any outside contributors have assigned copyright to you, in which case you can re-release it under whatever license you please (of course, the - comments from mysql (score:5, informative) by martenmickos (467191)
(score:5, insightful) by steelfood (895457)
by anonymous coward writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @07:48pm (#23098408)
gpl was never fully tested in court and doesn't provide patent indemnity as cddl does.
we may not have come up with the perfect business model yet (and perhaps the decision that is here being debated was utterly stupid), but we are determined to continue to seek the perfect business model for open source software so that we can continue to exist and be strong, and so that other software entrepreneurs can learn from our successes and mistakes.
so they really can't say you haven't given anything to the open source community.
we do get to keep what we made.
you cannot take gpl code, modify it, and re-release it as a closed source product.
it is basically forking off a closed source version and paying off developers to release it so they are finally paid for their hard work and years dedicated to writing code.
we are not responsible for them in any way.
parent share twitter facebook - re:harsh judgement (score:4, insightful) by nazlfrag (1035012) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @11:37pm (#23100262)
look here [opensolaris.org] for an faq which explains in simple terms why cddl is superior to gpl.
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:3, interesting) by jocknerd (29758) writes: correct me if i'm wrong, but i don't think mysql ever had an open source developer community.
the business decision on this was made by mysql ab (by me as the then ceo) prior to the acquisition by sun, so this has nothing to do with sun.
re:you can't effectively close-source anything gpl (score:4, informative) by sl baur (19540) writes:  on wednesday april 16 2008, @08:27pm (#23098790)
writes:  on wednesday april 16 2008,
homepage journal there's an appropriate saying about getting free donuts and complaining about the holes...
that doesn't make you selfish and it doesn't make you greedy either.
what the community doesn't seem to get is that this is basically creating two versions of the same product.
(score:5, insightful) by flieslikeabrick(943848) writes:  on wednesday april 16 2008, @08:34pm (#23098842)
on the contrary, sun is more likely to influence this decision the other way.
sun is not closing parts of mysql, instead it is introducing new features in mysql enterprise, a product which always had extra features.
homepage journal and don't forget netbeans..
hmm, i think you have the adults/kids analogy all bass-ackwards.
i'd bet a hell of a lot of closed source programs use mysql as their database... should we scream at them for being evil too?
their money, their choice.
openoffice not really gpl o.k.
[postgresql.org] would you like another round of ammo with that foot gun sun?
homepage journal sun has had a very poor history of actually open sourcing anything
we have not yet decided under what licence we will release those add-ons (gpl, some other foss licence, and/or commercial).
share twitter facebook - re:harsh judgement (score:5, funny) by anonymous coward writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @08:18pm (#23098712)
it has happened before that the community has been upset with us.
i can't help but wonder how many of the people, who treat this story like the evil sun is going ruin mysql, run mysql but haven't open sourced the programs that they've written that access the database...
what's in the current version stays in the current version, but they will phase out those features in the community branch.
- slashdot japan close slashdot working...
parent share twitter facebook - what the hell?
additionally we will develop high-end add-ons (such as encryption, native storage engine-specific drivers) that we will deliver to customers in the mysql enterprise product only.
talk about someone trying to be misleading...
this discussion has been archived.
and we will continue to experiment until we are satisfied.
homepage for postgresql :)http://www.postgresql.org/
primarily, it's supported by just about every damn open source package in the world.
looking at the actual link, this is talking about select _new_ features.
most of the time that doesn't happen and it continues to be unsupported and open source developers have friends and family members wondering if they are insane, doing all of that hard work for free and it looks like they are throwing away money or flushing it down the toilet.
but there would be too much gnashing of teeth from the linux creationists.
so why do we do that?
writes: on thursday april 17 2008, @12:05am (#23100468)
i wanted to present here the quick facts around this to avoid misunderstandings: in 6.0 there will be native backup functionality in the server available for anyone and all (community, enterprise) under gpl.
imagine redhat tomorrow saying, "yo guys, rh engineers gonna add new advanced features closed source.." this is not good, not good at al...
share twitter facebook - re:mysql & foss (score:5, interesting) by orion blastar (457579) writes:  on wednesday april 16 2008, @09:44pm (#23099422)
sun will begin with close sourcing the backup solutions to mysql, and will continue with more advanced features.
those guys are such dicks, they never give the community anything.
parent share twitter facebook - last part a joke?
but not all do (as evident from this thread on /.).
i dont know enough about opensolaris is licensed under cddl.
but some open source companies sell t-shirts and stuffed animals and other stuff.
homepage journal the gcc/egcs fork worked because most of the developers went with the egcs.
this is more like the adult teaching a kid about sharing by playing with a toy with the child.
with oracle owninginnodb, and it being gpl, does this mean that mysql will be  removing it to introduce these features?
everything we have released under gpl continues to be under gpl, and the core server will always be under gpl (or some other foss licence).
i used it for a time in 1990 and preferred it to straight emacs 18.
that fork worked because the gcc mainline was dead *and* the people doing all the real work were the ones who created egcs.
sun may begin close sourcing mysql features more login sun may begin close sourcing mysql features archived discussion load all comments full abbreviated hidden /sea
i won't, though, hesitate to switch if i am not happy with the direction of mysql.
i'd like to see more people showing respect for a company that has done so much for open source and respect the fact that they deserve to actually make a little money along the way.
share twitter facebook - comment (score:5, informative) by rinisari (521266) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @07:46pm (#23098388)
that is fine, but it is also enough of a closed-source move for me to start looking at alternatives.
you get better quality faster, and you often get better innovation too.
finally, please note that this entire decision and reasoning is something we developed on our own at mysql ab several months ago, before being acquired by sun.
parent share twitter facebook - is anyone actually reading tfa?
for a userbase that is always congratulating itself on how smart it is, there sure are a lot of gullible people reading slashdot...
first and foremost: we at mysql firmly believe that open source is a superior way of producing software.
one open sourced and one closed source.
by anarchysoft (1100393)
marten - -1, flamebait (score:5, insightful)
sun may begin close sourcing mysql features  more login sun may begin close sourcing mysql
so it's lgpl [openoffice.org]
we are hoping that we are good stewards of the mysql phenomenon, and we hope that you can come to terms with the fact that we find revenue generation a vital part of our mission.
homepage journal mysql has a few advantages over postgresql.
i love open source software and the general movement, but i hate it when people jump to conclusions like this... and jumping to conclusions like this seems to happen all to often by ppl on /.
parent share twitter facebook - - re: (score:3, insightful) by spun (1352) writes: it's not that they're phasing them out of the gpl'd branch; these are new features that were never gpl'd in the first place.
no new  comments can be posted.
there will still be an open source version of mysql, just that parts of it got spun off into a closed source commercial version.
an  anonymous reader writes"from the mysql user's conference, sun has  announced, and former ceo marten mickos has confirmed, that sun will beclose  sourcing sections of the mysql code base.
unlike postgresql, which really is developed by a community of developers.
it sounds like they are keeping the base package free (for now), but that high end add ons will be closed/commercial.
home wind-power  turbines make headway
slashdot stories slash boxes comments join log in submit story jobs newsletter library nickname: password: public terminal forgot your password?
those are the facts on this.
and once ppl don't trust the source, well it's game over.
successful forking is very rare and requires a truly dedicated developer community or large corporate backing to pull it off.
the founders of mysql ab get their big checks, and then create a new company with a forked version of mysql..
it seemed like the reviewer who posted the story would at least add to the post if they thought part of it was incorrect or misleading...
share twitter facebook -
homepage openoffice.org - no mention eh. :p
- interesting - funny the fine print: the following comments are owned by whoever posted them.
maybe that was the plan all along...
plenty of companies do that and we don't generally come down on them.
many users think it is great.
they can do it to theirsql, but not mysql...
someone can still port them from the old version, but even then, we won't get the benefit of sun's new developments.
if the world were perfect, we would only produce gpl code and we would have a great business that cna fund the software development.
maybe i'll use mysql, maybe i won't, it will depend on license, price, functionality, and community support.
share twitter facebook - bad summary (score:5, informative) by headlite (171240) writes: on thursday april 17 2008, @02:14am (#23101136)
i'm sorry, but if you want ideology, then it's free software you're after, not open source.
out of the few examples listed one of them was not a fork at all, but a coup and resulted in the death of the parent.
to get to this goal of ours, we believe we have to be more pragmatic than dogmatic.
sun has had a very poor history of actuallyopen sourcing anything."
we can probably not please all, but you should know that we are trying to serve our community.
writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @09:26pm (#23099284)
also, the features in mysql enterprise can (at least currently) be enjoyed by most developers using alternatives ... 1) the hot backup of myisam tables will be available in the open-source version 2) the smart load balancer is a mysql proxy configured with filtering scripts that you can write yourself in lua 3) profiling can be done efficiently with sun's dtrace
i've got svn repos with less confusing trees, for craps sake!
or being apatron of the fsf [fsf.org].
but, hey, who needs 'em for that?
in that way their open source developments pay off and they can finally earn an income for their hard work.
that was a fork, merge, (branch?)...
score:4, interesting) by marcus green(34723)
it may be free software, but people aren't really writing it for free, they expect a payoff sooner or later.
open source projects are a good way to market their skills and show off their coding abilities and ability to work in a team.
stop ruining my argument with facts parent share twitter facebook - re:harsh judgement (score:5, insightful) by nurb432 (527695) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @08:31pm (#23098826)
i suggest we all start doing this for all such examples of yellow journalism.
this is the power of open source.
the interesting topic is of course the one of the business model and what the best business model for foss software is.
the title of this article and some of the reactions here strikes me a chicken little "the sky is falling" bs.
according to the eu sun is the no 1 contributor of code towards open source by a very, very wide margin.
if open source could get it this far, odds are good open source can do even more.
every commercial linux distribution has parts which may or may not be open source, but if they are open they're certainly open to the extent that the gpl is.
share twitter facebook - - re:-1, flamebait not: prod solaris is not opensour (score:5, insightful) by thepowerofgrayskull (905905) writes:  on wednesday april 16 2008, @09:05pm ( #23099116)
but i hope that you can see that
without javascript enabled, you might want toturn on classic discussion system in your preferences instead.
but we have found that the world is not perfect.
- - re: (score:3, interesting) by mrghemp (189288) writes: i agree...
this isn't really news, mysql ab has done so before, for example with the most excellent mysql enterprise monitor.
but the time will come eventually when some company decides the project is good enough to license and use in a commercial project so they sell their rights to it for money.
close close search 509 comments log
gpl is just one license.
mysql is one of the most popular open source products out there, but they get lambasted if they create an add-on and want to actually get paid for it.
you still have stock holders who want a return on their investments.
features archived discussion load  all comments full  abbreviated  hidden
in all of this, you have our undivided continued commitment to providing a fantastic and complete mysql server under gpl for anyone to download and use.
(score:3, insightful)
writes: on thursday april 17 2008, @04:42am (#23101758)
- they are forking the code (score:5, informative) by spun (1352)
homepage "sun has had a very poor history of actually open sourcing anything" get back in your hole troll.
- re: (score:3, insightful) by blubrick (1924) writes:
rhel has fedora directory server (albeit rebranded as red hat).
i'd be happier if java, openoffice and mysql were cddl
opensolaris is definitely open source, and sun don't have a poor history of open sourcing things.
writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @07:57pm (#23098508)
in all of this - i.e. as we experiment with open source business models (as there aren't really any role models bigger than ourselves that we could learn from) - we remain fully committed to producing the core database server always under the gpl (or some other approved foss licence).
too many ppl react as if they are defecating on a holy shrine in the land of foss.
homepage journal of course open source licenses allow for some code and features to be released from the open source license by paying off the developers who developed the code and having them sign a contract.
share twitter facebook - let's kill mysql so postgresql can take over!
homepage didn't sun buy star office and give us the open source - openoffice.org?
plus it gives back to the community in free software.
having production add-ons that we provide only to paying customers currently seems to use to be a useful model.
but i mostly use mysql because of its compatibility with everything.
share twitter facebook - who needs mysql?
i can appreciate that many of you are upset with our decisions.
share twitter facebook - don't rush to conclusions (score:4, informative) by bonefry (979930)
just that the open source version now doesn't have the same code and features as the new closed source version has.
or netbeans (and forte before that, though it was lousy).
indeed, what is now called "gcc" is the offspring of egcs, the orignal gcc was killed.
for example this was done to wine to create crossover office, winex/cediga, et all.
they not only open source this stuff but actively develop and maintain it and understand that being the first stop for support and services they provide (like online backup features in their enterprise tools) is the reward they receive for this generous gpling of their codebase.
(score:5, informative) by joe_bruin (266648) writes: on wednesday april 16 2008, @07:55pm (#23098486)
100 of 509 comments loaded twitter facebook mysql sun flamebait ← related links → the inside story of the armed robot pullout rumor
java source code has been available for a long time but after years of people complaining that it wasn't "free enough", sun fully released java under a gpl [slashdot.org] 2 years ago.
- can you say... (score:3, funny) by theshad0w (258774) writes: ...
there is nothing in the story about the core mysql engine being moved from open source to a closed source mentioned in the story.
no comment regarding the emacs/xemacs fork, except to point out that there was an earlier fork called epoch made in the version 18 days and that didn't go anywhere.