that's a lot better than deciding that the only "real" language is one's own, and promoting that idea as "awareness" of the people that only speak the other kinds...
i recall my mother saying that when she discovered that my aspie brothers was capable of talking, she ignored his needs no matter how much he fussed, and he soon started talking in complete sentences.
even years after leaving that environment, tom has been wary  of groups of people on the autism spectrum - because he's concerned they'll  "bully" him (his interpretation of perseverative name calling) or  make very loud noises.
he even suggests that some non-autistics can learn the language well  enough to be fluent.
here's the response, from an adult with autism: i participated in the shout-out, being autistic...
i would liken it however to the “gaydar” referred to in queer culture- an instinctual awareness about behaviours related to issues/stimuli/etc that are very important to us, or that require our careful attention, things that are unimportant to the average person and therefore the behaviours connected to them are missed (or misunderstood).
i too tend to agree with alan.
twins have been known to come up with their own “language” to communicate with one another.
his suggestion is that the "language of autism" can be  likened to "italian," in that it's a particular way of communicating  that can be predicted, replicated, and understood on its own terms by native  speakers.
is autistic communication a language in itself?
i doubt there is a “language of autism”.
both auties and non-auties only natively communicate with our own  kind, have to learn the other, and don't pick it up much easier as babies.
i don’t think there is a “language” because language is socially constructed.
even years after leaving that environment, tom has been wary of groups of people on the autism spectrum - because he's concerned they'll "bully" him (his interpretation of perseverative name calling) or make very loud noises.
i have no idea whether there really is a "language of autism" that's shared by and understood by a large group of people.
kids with autism are often louder, more perseverative, and  more likely to tantrum than typical kids.
i am endowed with aspergers syndrome.
during those times he is fully with me.
language is give and take and getting that concept across seems to take some positive recognition for his attempts in order to eventually get him to move to the more common language spoken by the rest of us.
even when i was unable to speak as a little kid, according to my parents (both likely autistic), i communicated clearly with my eyes and actions; as an adult, while my non-autistic ex couldn't 'read' my non-verbal communication, my autistic ex definitely could.
does anyone remember that “look” mom would give you if you were doing or saying something you shouldn’t?
his suggestion is that the "language of autism" can be likened to "italian," in that it's a particular way of communicating that can be predicted, replicated, and understood on its own terms by native speakers.
discuss in our forum from lisa jo rudy, about.com guide november 3, 2010 last night, i received an interesting response to my blog about a "communication shutdown" run as a fundraiser for autism.
i am well aware neurotypicals are looking at facial expressions and body language to determine emotional states.
essentially, without a word being spoken, i can walk away from the random subway car and have given everyone on board an iq test, which i know from experience of interaction with random people to be fairly accurate.
for example, although english speaking people use “dog” and italian speakers use “cane,” both speakers are still working with a word that describes similar animals and that are descriptive of more than one specific dog or breed of dog.
it was the specific name of the specific dog we first pointed out to him as being a dog.
a part of the new york times company.
my grandson is three years old diagnosed as pdd.
what's your take on this intriguing idea?
i tailor my e-mails to those i suspect to be aspies to cover only a single subject; i know from esperience that only the first subject presented in an e-mail will be noticed, and i dont ever trust someone to walk away from a conversation remembering anything.
as a result, i find it perfectly believable that autistics may socially connect one on one with each other using attention to minute details that are important to them which nts seldom notice.
thank you for the article.
i’m inclined to agree with alan on this one.
once my son mastered that single concept, his language development literally took off.
i’m not saying this is the sole form of communicating, but throwing him a few his way, like learning at least a few words in italian, won’t do harm and in fact seems to open more to focusing on what i am saying and how i am saying it to better understand my meaning.
my daughter will immediately tell me not to encourage this behavior of repeating, yet i believe he is telling me he remembers that enjoyable contact and wants to do it again, not always with the same book.
most  autistic folk learn what we can for survival, some non-autie parents do, too.
both auties and non-auties only natively communicate with our own kind, have to learn the other, and don't pick it up much easier as babies.
but after thinking about this overnight, i realize that the commenter isn't  talking about hanging out in groups: he's talking about one-to-one  communication.
i do suspect that some autists are much more perceptive about certain aspects of body language than a neurotypical.
i look at eyes to figure out what the other person is looking at, with special emphasis on the fleeting glances.
i have taught both of my wife’s cats to “talk” to me if they want something; they have to come to me, “talk”, show me what they want by going right up to the door or their food bowl, and “talk” again.
as a result, a classroom filled with children on the spectrum is unlikely to be a relaxed, creative, or even predictable place.
imagine how silly someone would look to you if they did that!
even when i was  unable to speak as a little kid, according to my parents (both likely  autistic), i communicated clearly with my eyes and actions; as an adult, while  my non-autistic ex couldn't 'read' my non-verbal communication, my autistic ex  definitely could.
we communicate through various means and perhaps those on the spectrum are doing the same thing.
the shutdown reinforces the myth that just because non-auties don't natively understand us, we must not be communicating.
i don’t think it is a separate language, but like dialects and accents, it can tell you where they have come from.
the shutdown reinforces the myth that just because non-auties don't  natively understand us, we must not be communicating.
some are more in tuned to such communication and some are not.
from lisa jo rudy, about.com guide   november 3, 2010 last night, i received an interesting response to my blog about a  "communication shutdown" run as a fundraiser for autism.
kids with autism are often louder, more perseverative, and more likely to tantrum than typical kids.
he had a tendency to get so mired down by the individual details of objects that he wouldn’t classify and sort them into larger groups with common characteristics.
when i walk in the next time he will often look at me, grin and recite a particularly fun part of the book we last read.
all other dogs were different in some even minute detail from that dog, so they simply could not be dogs as well.
i suspect that communication with autistics can be manipulated.
after a few minutes of watching, i have instinctively separated people into a spectrum of those who lack sophisticated awareness of their surroundings, (the very neurotypical) and those who are tuned in to the mélange around them.
deaf individuals can tell if someone is comfortable with them by observing “body language” which is again, a form of communication.
that's a lot better than deciding that the only "real" language is  one's own, and promoting that idea as "awareness" of the people that  only speak the other kinds...
we comply with the honcode standard
here's  the response, from an adult with autism: i participated in the shout-out, being autistic...
it's like declaring that  because i only know english, immigrants must all be yammering nonsense words.
, , , say it! ©2012 about.com.
what's your take on  this intriguing idea?
i have no idea whether there really is a "language of autism"  that's shared by and understood by a large group of people.
it's like declaring that because i only know english, immigrants must all be yammering nonsense words.
as a result, a classroom filled with  children on the spectrum is unlikely to be a relaxed, creative, or even  predictable place.
i have consistently found a strong correlation between these qualities and intellectual curiosity.
my own son, who has high functioning autism (not asperger's), has always had a tough time when placed in a group of kids with autism.
my immediate response was confusion.
but after thinking about this overnight, i realize that the commenter isn't talking about hanging out in groups: he's talking about one-to-one communication.
he even suggests that some non-autistics can learn the language well enough to be fluent.
but, i do not think the writer is imagining something in regards to how autistics may connect.
for example, to him, the term “dog” for example wasn’t a generic term encompassing all sorts of sizes and varieties of dogs.
i feel like i am not communicating back when i ignore the invitation.
i suppose non-verbal people may have non-verbal communication but they can only communicate with people equipped to receive, at this end of the spectrum we are not so equipped.
a phenomenon my son’s therapists labeled “overselectivity” very obviously played a key role in many of his difficulties with developing language.
most autistic folk learn what we can for survival, some non-autie parents do, too.
he and i often play by the over the top way i read to him.
the deaf aren’t born understanding a universal sign language- groups of deaf people gradually created sign language; and different groups have created different languages (eg: american sign is quite different from british sign (and not in the occasionally-amusing way american english and british english differ)
moreover, although they differ a little form language to language, the use of “general” nouns and group classifications seems to be a construct that is somewhat common to most of the main languages used around the globe.
i don’t think autists care about any emotional state other than extreme anger, fear or aggression, and they are especially attuned to whether someone is glancing at them.
my own son, who has high functioning  autism (not asperger's), has always had a tough time when placed in a group of  kids with autism.
teaching him to group things based on “our” generalities was one of the toughest tasks we had as part of his speech therapy; and i would classify these concepts as being “social constructs” in language.
i don’t know if it is a “language” but it may be a form of communication.
i wish it was really so simple that we could work out a special decoder ring and suddenly we’d all have a clear understanding of each other.