comes in three dvds:eating and drinking: follow little pim and pals as they wake up to a new day and go to sleep  after a busy day;wake up smiling: follow little pim and pals as they  wake up to a new day and go to sleep after a busy day;playtime: join  little pim and pals in the wonders of play, from blocks to boats to tea time.
courses children are said to be better at learning languages than adults.
$99 little pim gift set, volume 1 (with eating and  drinking, wake up smiling, and playtime)
special features  include: 5-minute episodes to facilitate pausing for interaction; vocabulary  review after each segment; optional english subtitles; parent guide with  helpful viewing and learning tips.
bilingual baby teaches more than 60  words and phrases to children while their ability to develop a second language  is highest - between birth and age five.
comes with a 30 minute dvd in two parts; included on the dvd is a 64-page manual in pdf format and sample documents that can be accessed through a computer with a dvd-rom drive.
blip and blab esl video course blip and blab children's english video program makes learning fun!
included are teacher's notes and methodology, follow up activities, lesson extensions assessments, and more.
the  video may also be helpful for showing parents how they can support their  children's oral reading practice at home.
includes flash cards, 4 full size color posters, phonics audio recordings, black line (reproduceable) master handout sheets and manual.
this innovative program was designed by esl experts together with respected entertainment producers for both classroom and individual use.
$29 english: eating and drinking english:
levels 1  and 2 dvd edition $525 more about muzzy in  gondoland!...
picture skills binder set (all 6 binders) $169.95 individual picture series items $29.95 picture everyday life: 60 pictures of grammar in everyday life picture family: 80 sequenced picture of family life picture grammar: 90 pictures of teaching everyday grammar picture verbs: irregular verbs picture vocabulary: 90 lessons to build vocabulary picture work: 72 sequential pictures about work more information for the picture series... the twisted doors: the scariest way in the world to learn english!
parents report that their children want to watch it all the time, and teachers say that their students concentrate on learning with the series and quickly master phrases and sentence structure.
(with eating and drinking / wake up smiling /  playtime /
dvd $29.95 more about bilingual baby... downloads | spanish | asl schools | internet radio | internet tv |
featured products blip and blab esl video course blip and blab children's english video program makes learning fun!
this six binder series features the following texts:picture verbs, picture vocabulary, picture grammar, picture everyday life, picture family and picture work.
no costly add-ons or supplements are needed since they are all incorporated and integrated into one book.
$55 little  pim individual packages (eating and drinking / wake up smiling /  playtime /
phonicsq is designed to  provide consistent visual cues to help students remember the sounds of the  letters and letter combinations.
this makes the package a ?good buy' for libraries and schools...
created by julia pimsleur levine, an award-winning  filmmaker and mom, little pim is a groundbreaking kids?
in my home english: happy, sad and silly english: i can count!
available for english (esl), italian, french, german, irish gaelic, and spanish.
the instructions on  using videotape are good and the q/a section and sample documents are  excellent...
courses standard deviants esl 12
students are motivated to learn a chapter so that they can find out how the mystery unfolds in the next!
this package is one that is here to stay...and will not be  outdated.".
they cover a number of skills, including vocabulary, irregular verbs, grammar, work procedures, family life, and daily activities.
and most importantly - this series works!
eating and drinking english: wake up smiling english:  playtime english:
level 1 dvd edition $289 level 2 dvd edition $289 levels 1 and 2 dvd edition $525 more about muzzy in gondoland!...
$199 more information for paired reading... phonicsq phonics system phonicsq is an exciting new  phonics system for classroom or home use.
each course includes five dvds, an audio cd with songs, a student book, and a special bonus cd-rom (for pc), and the course comes packaged in a sturdy case.
the picture series illustrations and visuals always make it easy to teach, and learn!
little pim dvds for english meet little pim, a charming  animated panda who guides babies, toddlers and preschoolers on a fun-filled  journey to learning a foreign language.
this  makes the package a ?good buy' for libraries and schools...
if you don't see what you want,please e-mail us at sales at multilingualbooks dot com .
maybe that's because children's esl materials are so much fun!
special: was $75 , now for $55!
$99 little pim gift set, volume 1 (with eating and drinking, wake up smiling, and playtime)
this multi-disc series of 35-minute dvds can be viewed in any order, with each dvd teaching 60 words of vocabulary.
studies show that exposing young children to a foreign language facilitates fluency later in life and could also enhance cognitive abilities.
the course includes 4 dvds in versions for native speakers of chinese (mandarin), korean, portuguese (brazilian), spanish, or vietnamese.
press releases | language news | school and library | advertise order info | faq | privacy policy | email us phone: (253) 353 2761 fax: (206) 400 1156
language dvd series  that offers hours of fun while providing the basic building blocks for learning  a foreign language.
- by language - for kids - children's page - dvds - bilingual books - harry potter - tin tin - power glide - software - downloads - esl - by language - ebooks & downloads - spanish - esl - foreign service courses - linguaphone - kids - by language - software & toys - language learning - electronic translators - global writer - ipod to go - by language - books & reference - bilingual books - harry potter - tintin - dictionaries - ebooks - country-language chart - by language - language portal - internet radio - online tv - language associations - magazines - language news - language portal - dvds & free videos - language dvds - kid's dvds - esl dvds - movies - free video - free kid's videos - free music videos esl index > esl for children: courses search our site tweet courses - more products... - software - books - audio - fun and games esl for children:
is the most creative and engaging intermediate to advanced esl/efl course of its time: it teaches extensive grammar, vocabulary, reading, writing, speaking, and listening by embedding an ongoing suspenseful mystery adventure, even into the grammar quizzes, dialogues, and exercises.
blip and blab start with  the basics - numbers, letters, colors, adjectives, et cetera, and then advance  to conversational english and more complex structures.
the instructions on using videotape are good and the q/a section and sample documents are excellent...
created by julia pimsleur levine, an award-winning filmmaker and mom, little pim is a groundbreaking kids?
(with eating and drinking / wake up smiling / playtime /
this comprehensive package, used by literary specialists  across north america, is truly a valuable resource for each and every school  and public library.
while they are studying, they get involved in many zany adventures with earth children.
the school esl dvd package contains modules 1 through 12: 1: pronouns; 2: adjectives; 3: the present tense & possessives; 4: prepositions; 5: questions & pointer word; 6: days & times; 7: possessives; 8: verb + infinitive; 9: the past; 10: the past - regular past; 11: the past - irregular past; 12: adverbs.
$55 little pim gift set, volume 2 (with my home / happy, sad and silly / i can count) special: was $75 , now for $55!
includes flash cards, 4 full size color  posters, phonics audio recordings, black line (reproduceable) master handout  sheets and manual.
bilingual baby features thetotal immersion method , a well-established teaching system that has long been used by both educators and language experts, which advocates immersing the child in the new language.
paired reading: positive reading practice through the use of simulated tutoring demonstrations, this video describes the paired reading technique and demonstrates ways in which teachers can teach or remediate reading skills through consistent, positive reading experiences.
$399 more about standard deviants...
comes in three dvds:eating and drinking: follow little pim and pals as they wake up to a new day and go to sleep after a busy day;wake up smiling: follow little pim and pals as they wake up to a new day and go to sleep after a busy day;playtime: join little pim and pals in the wonders of play, from blocks to boats to tea time.
dvd $399 chinese (mandarin) korean portuguese (brazilian) spanish vietnamese more about blip and blab...
we encourage you to watch little pim with your child and join the  onscreen fun by calling out words and repeating the language together.
just as students need to have a comfortable familiarity with numbers in order to do math, they need such familiarity with letters and sounds to read and write.
bilingual baby for english bilingual baby is a revolutionary series of videos that exposes your child to the world of language - a priceless gift that will give your child the opportunity to actually gain knowledge and brainpower.
wake up smiling english: playtime english:
the twisted doors combines an all-in-one comprehensive grammar and basic english skills textbook, an integrated mystery reader with gripping dialogues doubling as grammar quizzes, a highly illustrated activity book with hundreds of interactive quizzes and exercises (sometimes in the form of rhyming riddles, secret codes, games, crossword puzzles, word scrambles, or hidden words), and a riveting read-along audio book cd.
because  little pim focuses on the first words typically acquired in a kid?s vocabulary,  your family can reinforce the lessons by simply repeating the new language  during your everyday routines.
little pim gift set, volumes 1 and 2 special: was  $125  , now for$99!
just as students need to have a  comfortable familiarity with numbers in order to do math, they need such  familiarity with letters and sounds to read and write.
the video may also be helpful for showing parents how they can support their children's oral reading practice at home.
muzzy uses a natural approach with the lessons in the target language, so that the child learns easily and naturally.
bilingual baby teaches more than 60 words and phrases to children while their ability to develop a second language is highest - between birth and age five.
these 45 minute videos come in versions for 12 languages: dutch, english, french, german, greek, hebrew, italian, japanese, portuguese, russian, spanish, and swedish.
little pim dvds for english meet little pim, a charming animated panda who guides babies, toddlers and preschoolers on a fun-filled journey to learning a foreign language.
language dvd series that offers hours of fun while providing the basic building blocks for learning a foreign language.
the main storyline is  built around two fun-loving aliens named blip and blab who are visiting earth  from a distant planet to learn english.
more about little pim dvds for children...
these 45 minute videos come in  versions for 12 languages: dutch, english, french, german, greek, hebrew,  italian, japanese, portuguese, russian, spanish, and swedish.
photocopiable, classroom use, all levels, age: adults.
we are proud to present these esl teaching materials for children.
$139.95 more about phonicsq phonics system...
because little pim focuses on the first words typically acquired in a kid?s vocabulary, your family can reinforce the lessons by simply repeating the new language during your everyday routines.
this innovative program was designed  by esl experts together with respected entertainment producers for both  classroom and individual use.
advertise order info |  faq | privacy policy | email us phone:  (253) 353 2761
bilingual baby features thetotal immersion method , a well-established teaching system that has long been used by both  educators and language experts, which advocates immersing the child in the new  language.
studies show that exposing young children to a  foreign language facilitates fluency later in life and could also enhance  cognitive abilities.
dvd $29.95 more about bilingual baby... downloads | spanish | asl schools | internet radio | internet tv | press  releases | language news  | school and library  |
$55 little pim individual packages (eating and drinking / wake up smiling / playtime /
assessed at tesol levels 3-4, progressing to level 5, the twisted doors is a must-have for intermediate to advanced esl middle and high school students worldwide, advanced adult self-learners, adults in esl literacy programs, international students in the us, and overseas english-language learners.
while watching the video, the child will only hear the language being taught, but there is also small on-screen text in english to help parents learn too, plus a fold-out guide that gives an overview of the phrases and words presented as well as native translations.
phone: (253) 353 2761 fax: (206) 400 1156 - language learning - dvds - software - for kids - foreign service - pimsleur audio - esl - downloads - adult learning - sales - save!
together, they have created a 10 episode video course that effectively teaches while maintaining attention span and enthusiasm.
the international reading association (i.r.a.) reviews state:"this package can be executed and the program created without drawing on an external ?
comes with a 30 minute dvd in two parts; included on the  dvd is a 64-page manual in pdf format and sample documents that can be accessed  through a computer with a dvd-rom drive.
little pim only speaks in the foreign  language, while interacting with babies and young children enjoying everyday  activities.
special features include: 5-minute episodes to facilitate pausing for interaction; vocabulary review after each segment; optional english subtitles; parent guide with helpful viewing and learning tips.
phonicsq is designed to provide consistent visual cues to help students remember the sounds of the letters and letter combinations.
we encourage you to watch little pim with your child and join the onscreen fun by calling out words and repeating the language together.
the international reading association  (i.r.a.) reviews state:"this package can be executed and the program  created without drawing on an external ?
blip and blab esl video course blip and blab children's  english video program makes learning fun!
special: was  $75 , now for $55!
while watching the video, the child will only hear the language being  taught, but there is also small on-screen text in english to help parents learn  too, plus a fold-out guide that gives an overview of the phrases and words  presented as well as native translations.
$199 more information for paired reading... phonicsq phonics system phonicsq is an exciting new phonics system for classroom or home use.
blip and blab start with the basics - numbers, letters, colors, adjectives, et cetera, and then advance to conversational english and more complex structures.
the twisted doors: the scariest way in the world to learn english!
while they are studying, they get  involved in many zany adventures with earth children.
little pim gift set, volumes 1 and 2 special: was $125 , now for$99!
the course includes 4  dvds in versions for native speakers of chinese (mandarin), korean, portuguese  (brazilian), spanish, or vietnamese.
mastering the english language will seem easy for your class with the standard deviants!
little pim only speaks in the foreign language, while interacting with babies and young children enjoying everyday activities.
dvd $399 chinese (mandarin) korean portuguese (brazilian) spanish vietnamese more about blip and blab... paired reading: positive reading practice through the  use of simulated tutoring demonstrations, this video describes the paired  reading technique and demonstrates ways in which teachers can teach or  remediate reading skills through consistent, positive reading experiences.
for esl children love the muzzy series!
bilingual baby for english bilingual baby is a  revolutionary series of videos that exposes your child to the world of language  - a priceless gift that will give your child the opportunity to actually gain  knowledge and brainpower.
in my home / happy, sad and silly / i can count)
together, they have created a 10 episode video  course that effectively teaches while maintaining attention span and  enthusiasm.
pack written by award-winning english as second language instructors, each program in this series covers vocabulary as well as a different part of speech - including pronouns, prepositions, and adjectives.
$139.95 more about phonicsq  phonics system...
$59.95 package of 10 $495 more information for the twisted doors... muzzy in gondoland!
this comprehensive package, used by literary specialists across north america, is truly a valuable resource for each and every school and public library.
the main storyline is built around two fun-loving aliens named blip and blab who are visiting earth from a distant planet to learn english.
this package is one that is here to stay...and will not be outdated.".
this multi-disc series of 35-minute dvds can be viewed in  any order, with each dvd teaching 60 words of vocabulary.
expert' to initiate or sustain it.