this adapted mozart  opera is an hour of elaborate special effects, marionettes and music.
explore the exciting world of tiny technology at this program that is part of a nationwide festival dedicated to nanoscience.
forest friends festival.
learn about these nocturnal  acrobats, then tiptoe outside to see them glide in for a meal.
snake and turtle feeding.
they'll also find out whether goats really will eat anything,  including tin cans!
parental  supervision required.
beneath ancient seas: digging dinosaurs.
national building museum, washington, d.c.. young portrait explorers: duke ellington.
watch dances from around the world at this showcase, including the  washington korean dance company, foggy bottom morris men, furia flamenca and  more.
opening weekend  on the farm.
kids will make instruments from recycled materials and play them in a parade.
it's time for your top-secret spy training!
this environmental  film festival, now in its 20th year, will screen 34 animated, documentary, imax  and feature films for children and family across the city.
8 p.m. take a family-friendly trip to outerspace with these two short musicals: star corps iv: the search for mind zap and
walks leaving at 10, 10:30, 11, 11:30, noon and  12:30.
1:30 p.m. stop by the center for stories, music, science activities and tons of hands-on fun.
$$ cf smith park, arlington.
noon to 3 p.m. learn all about the history of the postal system, including how machines read your handwriting and engineers solve sorting problems.
se to verizon center, washington, d.c.. sacagawea's sisters.
american  indian museum, washington, d.c.. ponderings.
you'll find 400+ free activities and events, including healthy cooking demonstrations and a visit from the performer behind sesame street's elmo.
1 p.m. join a naturalist to learn about hummingbirds, their favorite flowers and how you can make a feeder to attract them to your yard.
hike for a mile or two while searching for vernal pools full of salamanders and frog eggs.
1 to 4 p.m. explore brookside's nature collection, make a craft, play a game and read a story.
the puppet co. brings this  classic to life, telling the story of pinocchio's quest to become a real boy.
story time and hands-on activities make the perfect thursday morning activity for preschoolers.
$$  gulf branch nature center, arlington.
visit with the  easter bunny.
learn about the evolution of fish through fish x-rays and photographs.
2 p.m. take a wagon ride along the rocky run stream trail and learn about the plants and animals you see along the way.
explore "what's underneath" the water at this nature  program.
interact one-on-one with your  child while discovering the wonders of nature.
1 to 3 p.m. march madness hits lake anne, and kids can  get in on the fun!
&nbspages 12 and older.
se to verizon center, washington, d.c..
with fabric strips and a cardboard loom, learn the basic plain weave  structure while creating a placemat.
look for things that are made from trees, then make a tree craft out of wood.
drink specials include buy a beer, get a juice box. $$  jammin' java, vienna.
watch the thrilling story of aladdin, jamal, princess jasmine and three comical genies.
see horses and riders in action as they show off their skills.
gather  at the nature center to hear some cottontail tales, observe the nature center's  cottontail cousin and learn how to draw a rabbit.
bull run regional park, arlington.
learn coiled weaving  techniques to make your own artwork.
natures' april foolers campfire.
$$ oregon ridge park, cockeysville.
get transported to ralph's  world, a musical planet where kids can dance and rock out.
this eco-friendly play uses puppets and stage effects to tell the story of walter the litterbug.
learn about the wildlife that lives in our region and the habitats that support them.
6:30 to 8:30 p.m. take a two-mile  hike through the meadows and woods.
noon to 3 p.m. celebrate prince george's 316th birthday with a museum visit, craft, refreshments and more.
$$ montgomery county fairgrounds, gaithersburg.
$$ hyattstown  mill parking area, little bennet regional park, hyattstown.
3:30 p.m. children are sure to make friends at this program that includes stories, crafts and hikes.
hunt for treat-filled eggs on the grounds of colvin run mill, but first, make easter-themed crafts.
meet some of the nature center's live reptiles, such as snakes, lizards and turtles.
national children's museum launch zone, washington, d.c.. tuesday tea.
$$ blackrock center for the arts, germantown.
national gallery of art, washington, d.c..
&nbspages  7 and older.
$$ national aquarium, washington, d.c..
watch as  five silly siblings, who just happen to be monkeys, do things their own way and  mayhem ensues.
the national theatre, washington, d.c.. earth day campfire.
learn fun worm facts at this program.
$$ robert e. parilla performing arts center, rockville.
$$ visitor's center, st.  mary's city.
oh my, an invasion! $$ gunston arts center, arlington.
spring is in the  air!
you'll learn about  freshwater, seawater and land-dwelling intertebrates.
join baysox mascot louie for the annual spring  egg hunt, then stick around for the game.
many screenings are  free.
national  children's museum launch zone, washington, d.c.. tuesday tea.
welcome the easter bunny  with this party that includes face painting, balloon twisters and treats.
1 to 3 p.m. hunt for eggs, play games and more.
explore the  wonderful world of worms while learning about composting.
help  rid the park of the invasive garlic mustard plant.
the whole family will love using a gps to locate hidden  containers.
&nbspages 1 and older.
the day includes hands-on activities, speakers, performances and story time.
$$  maryland science center, baltimore.
rockville town square, rockville.
get your groove on to live jazz music, visit an interactive family concert and participate in an instrument "petting zoo."
learn about the  wildlife that lives in our region and the habitats that support them.
clifford's big 50th birthday celebration.
sounds of the night campfire.
help them rescue elephants, kangaroos and bumble bees! $$ colvin run mill, great falls.
hidden pond wildflower walk.
performer and storyteller thirza defoe shares traditional ojibwe and oneida  stories through words, songs, music and dance.
$$ croydon creek nature center, rockville.
2 p.m. learn all about  fossils, how they're formed and where you can find them.
start by making your journal, then head outside to record nature's wonders.
learn about these nocturnal acrobats, then tiptoe outside to see them glide in for a meal.
&nbspall ages 9:30 and 11 a.m.
join artist tamara thomas to design, build and decorate an  easter-themed craft.
11 a.m. to 5 p.m. from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., enjoy edo period music, create cherry blossom origami and snack on bento boxes available for purchase.
the trains will be up and running during montgomery county public schools' spring break.
this program is fun for preschoolers, with story time and a craft.
flying squirrel lore & more.
mad hatter's tea party.
see the tale of 16-year-old rapunzel, who escapes the clutches of a wicked witch--and her tower--and embarks on an adventure.
this musical duo gives off caribbean vibes  as they sing, play the guitar and rock out on the conga.
stop by the center for stories, music, science activities and tons  of hands-on fun.
$$  freer and sackler galleries, washington, d.c..
pop up science at 11:30 a.m., exploration station from 1 to 3 p.m. and pets on wheels at 1 p.m. $$ port discovery, baltimore.
check website for  times.
back to top mar   7   wednesday happy birthday, dr. seuss!.
after storytime, stick around to learn to recreate the sounds of a  symphony using musical instruments and your own body.
explore wind and how it affects your life through experiments and a craft.
the peanuts gang leaps off the newspaper page and onto the  stage in this musical about friendship.
baltiomre museum of art, baltimore.
ages 6 to 9. 4 p.m. try to slither like a snake and flap as fast as a hummingbird.
back to top mar 22 thursday book sale.
westfield  montgomery mall, bethesda. wildlife wednesday.
national children's museum  launch zone, washington, d.c.. cheese tasting.
2 to 5 p.m. listen to a story about pianist and big-band leader duke ellington, then create a piece of art.
cherry blossom festival opening ceremony.
drop in and try out a new hobby: topical stamp collecting.
$$ green spring gardens  park, alexandria.
$$ hidden pond nature center,  springfield.
darnall's chance house museum, upper marlboro.
audiences will be wowed  by superhuman stunts ane never-before-seen performances at the greatest show on  earth.
the diggity dudes  in concert.
today's theme: pond study.
visit with  the bunny.
back to top mar   8   thursday dinorock junkyard pirates.
celebrate the birthday of dr. seuss with stories and  activities.
$$ arts barn theatre, gaithersburg.
celebrate  spring with balloon animals, face painting, a moonbounce, beanbag toss,  international food stalls and a book sale.
combine music, science and  environmental awareness at this hands-on workshop.
national building museum, washington, d.c..
japan spring opening day celebration.
secret agent  23 squidoo mixes entertainment, education and hot beats in this hip-hop show.
$$ imagination stage, bethesda.
you'll follow three fishy friends as they follow clues on a treasure map.
program includes a  tour, a story and a craft.
bash the trash. &nbspages  4 and older.
help your child discover the wonders of nature through  nature play, crafts, stories and hikes.
visit with  the easter bunny.
the holy child  tiger trot. &nbspall ages.
today's theme is amphibians.
$$ the connelly school of the holy child, potomac.
miniature trains open!.
$$ black hill  visitor center, boyds.
the gallery celebrates the cherry blossom  festival with a family-friendly performance by harpist mariko anraku and sho  player mayumi miyata.
discover the bustling world around the nature center on a mini-hike.
mysteries of mail family day.
$$ ellanor  c. lawrence park, chantilly.
finish the night by roasting marshmallows.
travel across the country to discover some of america's greatest art treasures.
8 p.m. take a family-friendly trip to outerspace with  these two short musicals: star corps iv: the search for mind zap and oh my, an  invasion! $$ gunston arts center, arlington.
try your hand at a live-action  game while jamming out to a soundtrack by dj mko.
enjoy tasty treats and a short film, caterpillar and polliwog, around the campfire.
meet r.l. stine, the author of the  goosebumps children series and participate in a slew of activities for  children's and adults!
create your own printing block using styrofoam, then recreate print landcapes  that convey early dawn.
an evening with flying squirrels.
listen to stories about raptors, meet meadowside's resident raptors and make a craft.
1 p.m. enjoy a kid-friendly menu,  story time and children's music at this tea time.
celebrate the birthday of dr. seuss with  stories and activities.
anime artists  encounter arhats.
learn about the evolution of fish through  fish x-rays and photographs.
back to top apr   20   friday afternoon aviators.
$$ cabin john and wheaton  regional parks, montgomery county. stem in spring.
11  a.m., 1:30 and 5 p.m. rhymed verse puts a spin on this classic fairy tale.
the classic pinocchio story is reimagined in hip-hopia, an enchanted land where people speak in rhyme and breakdance instead of walk.
put your best foot forward and learn 18th-century country dancing.
today's theme: turtles.
$$ national geographic live, washington, d.c..
if you can't make it to the usa science and engineering festival, stop by the launch zone to make your own recycled invention.
enjoy gardening activities, stories, crafts and garden walks.
back to top mar 14 wednesday brookside tot times.
6:30 to 8:30 p.m. take a two-mile hike through the meadows and woods.
the national  theatre, washington, d.c..
the whole family can come!
ringling bros. and barnum & bailey: fully charged.
observe the sky through telescopes, build your own astrolabe and pocket solar clock and listen to stories.
learn coiled weaving techniques to make your own artwork.
head to the mall for a professional photo with the easter  bunny.
$$ watkins  nature center, upper marlboro.
children and their guardians can  enjoy creative music and stories.
prince george's stadium, bowie.
2 p.m. explore nature through short hikes, scavenger hunts, games and crafts.
riverdale park field, riverdale.
explore the wonders of nature  through finger plays, stories, activities and outdoor exploration.
kids and adults will rock  out at this family-friendly show.
little acorns.. &nbspages 2 to 4.
$$ first mariner  arena, baltimore.
$$ corcoran  gallery of art, washington, d.c..
10:15 a.m. take a tour of the "you are what you eat" exhibit and complete a hands-on activity.
use a manga-style activity  book to explore the exhibit, masters of mercy: buddha's amazing disciples.
artist jay coleman teaches about proportion, color and more in this  portraiture workshop.
interact one-on-one with your child while discovering the wonders of nature.
nbspages 8 and  older.
apr   1   sunday animal rescue: a  musical adventure.
learn about animal sounds and take a night-time stroll along the old oak trail to practice your new listening skills.
$$ kingsley schoolhouse trail parking  lot, clarksburg.
take a peek  behind the scenes at the museum.
back to top mar   21   wednesday digging dinos.
multiple locations, washington, d.c.. imagination and creation exploration.
learn to make  observations and ask questions about artwork.
back to top apr   15   sunday anime artists encounter arhats.
back to top april apr 1 sunday animal rescue: a musical adventure.
play moon bounce basketball, enter a hoola hoop contest and  enjoy prizes, games and food.
this performance combines comedy and illusion with original music, and features  a cast like none other--a giant dinosaur, hungry anteaters, introverted frogs  and tricky penguins.
9 a.m. ranger steph will excite children with the story of the three billy  goats gruff.
three dynamic performers come together to strum, juggle and hum.
&nbspages 18 to  35 months.
meet a live shark and  other fish.
this sleepover lets kids go through "spy school" and  complete a mission.
ethan bortnick and his musical time machine. &nbspall ages.
treasure quest: pirate comedy and magic.
today's theme: frog and toad.
you're a good man,  charlie brown. &nbspall ages.
to  3 p.m. enjoy a nature-themed puppet show and meet a live animal.
build your own paper airplane  and compete in a paper airplane derby.
join a naturalist for a hands-on adventure.
meet a rabbit and learn how the tradition of the easter bunny began.
join baysox mascot louie for the annual spring egg hunt, then stick around for the game.
back to top mar 15 thursday busy beavers.
westfield family fun day.
$$ prince george's stadium,  bowie.
interact with your child as they discover the wonders of nature through songs,  crafts, finger plays and mini-hikes.
$$ gulf branch  nature center, arlington.
visit with the  bunny.
bright star theatre: we can do it.
meet some of the others!
washington national opera: family look-in.  ages 6 to 12.
wes holly will host a magic show.
shakespeare's birthday open house.
go for a hike and observe all the  things that come along with spring's longer days and warmer temperatures.
$$ first  mariner arena, baltimore.
westfield family  fun day.
you can earn student learning hours for helping!
animal explorers with indiana fonz.
multiple locations, washington, d.c.. family day: women in aviation and space.
10 a.m. discover the wonders of nature through songs, crafts, finger  plays and mini-hikes.
nbspages 8 and older.
how fast can  they crawl?
take home a plant for your garden.
earth day  garlic mustard pull. &nbspages 3 and older.
back to top mar 7 wednesday happy birthday, dr. seuss!.
easter crafts workshop.
if the weather's nice, you can go for a short walk.
learn about the ultimate stealth sprinter: the ninja.
the trains will be up and running during  montgomery county public schools' spring break.
dulles town center,  dulles.
take a hike to see who else makes noise in spring.
$$  imagination stage, bethesda.
$$ green spring  gardens park, alexandria.
the perfect show for younger theatre patrons: the shows are shorter, the lights stay on low and the door remains open.
discover how the seasons came to be  with this dramatization of an ancient greek myth.
3 p.m. roll up your sleeves!
nbspages 5 and older.
registration  required.
prices range from 50 cents  to $3. $$ gesher jewish day school, fairfax.
10 a.m. listen to  a seasonal story, then make a craft.
back to top apr   6   friday afternoon aviators.
environmental film  festival in nation's capital.
enjoy entertainment as you hunt.
this jazz quartet will get kids tapping their toes and snapping their fingers.
trek to a vernal pool and look for tadpoles, frogs and salamanders.
multiple locations, washington, d.c.. free family sundays.
travel across the  country to discover some of america's greatest art treasures.
1 p.m. enjoy some of the most popular animated films screened during the 20 years of the environmental film festival.
join a  naturalist for hands-on adventures.
check website  for times.
use a manga-style activity book to explore the exhibit, masters of mercy: buddha's amazing disciples.
$$ kingsley schoolhouse trail parking lot, clarksburg.
eric energy  will host a science show and
10:30 a.m. to 12:30  p.m.
celebrating national  volunteer month.
learn  how beavers are amazing builders and why they're so busy.
visit a few  of their favorite perches in hope of a sighting.
11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. the puppet co. brings this classic to life, telling the story of pinocchio's quest to become a real boy.
back to top mar   29   thursday pee wee explorers.
$$ kenmore middle school, arlington.
back to top mar 12 monday flower buds.
find out how robots are  exploring everywhere from outer space to the depths of the oceans.
be a wood turner's apprentice for the day, and learn how to sand, polish and weave chairs.
$$ national zoo, washington, d.c.. pinocchio.
puppets made from recycled materials sail the sea while looking for  ways to reduce, reuse and recycle.
hop into spring and  see your favorite bunny!
dress up as a princess and your family gets a free hay ride.
croydon creek nature center, rockville.
cathy fink & marcy marxer in concert.
learn fun facts about animals as you move.
create your  own printing block using styrofoam, then recreate print landcapes that convey  early dawn.
$$ meadowside nature center, bethesda.
buy a bucket  of enriched ore and use a water flume to discover gems.
discover the national portrait gallery by looking at art inspired by duke ellington and participating in a hands-on activity.
learn about bees and other pollinators at this program.
multiple  locations, washington, d.c.. geology in your neighborhood.
bring a toasting stick to make s'mores.
noon to 4 p.m. there's much ado about this celebration that includes jugglers,  jesters, theater performances and birthday cake!
louie as they enjoy music, carnival games and other attractions.
national gallery of art, washington, d.c.. tiny tots: panda-monium.
spend the afternoon hunting for eggs hidden on the grounds of the manor, then play games and enjoy activities.
10:30 a.m. to  12:30 p.m.
$$ long branch nature center,  arlington.
civilian clothing in 1812.
virginia  hunters horse show.
stories with ranger steph.
back to top apr   4   wednesday bunny bonanza.
watch as celtic dancers, floats, bagpipers, horses and more make their way down the avenue.
$$ black hill contact station, boyds.
the great zucchini performs a colorful magic show that will have every child laughing.
noon to 3 p.m. amaze a friend by  sending an old-fashioned, handwritten letter instead of the usual text.
you'll be splashing around to discover the science behind water.
concert: ralph's world.
11 a.m. to 5  p.m. from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., enjoy edo period music, create cherry blossom  origami and snack on bento boxes available for purchase.
noon to 4 p.m. there's much ado about this celebration that includes jugglers, jesters, theater performances and birthday cake!
noon to 3:30 p.m. learn about life onboard the titanic and the postal workers who processed tons of mail at sea.
get closer to mother nature at this native plants sale that includes tree activities, forest-friendly crafts, forest critters and more. $$ brookside nature center, wheaton.
nature tots: amphibians.
violins, and trombones, and bears, oh my!.
artist jay coleman teaches about proportion, color and more in this portraiture workshop.
2 p.m. join a naturalist to learn  about plant identification skills and how to plant a garden.
join a bird vs. human challenge to see how you stack up against birds' abilities.
the museum is  celebrating jam--jazz appreciation month.
gather around the campfire for stories and snacks.
combine music, science and environmental awareness at this  hands-on workshop.
visit the print by print exhibit, and make your own prints!
$$ montgomery college cultural arts center, silver spring.
tiny tots: world on a string.
frying pan farm park, herndon. rapunzel.
spend your saturday learning about  science, engineering and math through hands-on activities and demonstrations.
hunt for treat-filled eggs on the grounds of colvin run mill,  but first, make easter-themed crafts.
$$ snow hill manor, laurel.
watch as the wno performs cosi fan tutte.
school  house rock live!.
storytime at the kreeger.
gather at the nature center to hear some cottontail tales, observe the nature center's cottontail cousin and learn how to draw a rabbit.
preschool songs & stories.
$$ montgomery college cultural arts center,  silver spring.
back to top mar 26 monday baby chicks.
3  p.m. join the bsi--bone scene investigation--to find out what bones tell us  about their former owners.
stop by the center for stories, music, science activities and tons of  hands-on fun.
you're a good man, charlie  brown.
back to top apr 24 tuesday squish, squash, squirt: mud!.
discover how the seasons came to be with this dramatization of an ancient greek myth.
$$ national building museum, washington, d.c..
finish the day with a dino craft.
today's theme: wiggling worms and wonderful wildflowers.
listen to stories, sing songs and enjoy other activities with an earth day theme.
8 p.m. take a family-friendly trip to outerspace with these two short musicals: star corps iv: the search for mind zap and oh my, an invasion! $$ gunston arts center, arlington.
2 p.m. enjoy honey, tea and cookies in a  pooh-style tea party.
today's theme is mammals.
$$ s. dillon ripley center, washington, d..c.. vernal pool hike.
wammie-winners cathy fink & marcy marxer  explore the ukelele as they play songs from their new recording, rockin' the  uke. $$ jammin' java, vienna.
american indian museum,  washington, d.c..
everyone participates in this percussion performance played on 100 percent  recycled materials.
today's theme is signs of spring.
&nbspages 1 and  older.
experience the flora and fauna of the park through an early morning walk.
spring has sprung hike.
2 p.m. learn to make a proper cup of tea and the difference between american and british.
discover the national portrait  gallery by looking at art inspired by duke ellington and participating in a  hands-on activity.
hunt  for eggs, enjoy crafts, play games and more.
super science saturday: how things fly.
letter writing social.
4:30 p.m. learn about nature through meeting live animals, exploring outdoors and participating in activities.
gather around the campfire to learn about native amphibians.
$$ college park aviation museum, college park.
there  will be performances by commotion and bubbles the clown, a magic show, spin art  and more. $$ port discovery, baltimore.
children are sure to make friends at this program that includes stories, crafts  and hikes.
11 a.m. to 12:30  p.m.
help your child discover the wonders of nature through nature play, crafts, stories and hikes.
check website for times.
celebrate with family activities, animal demonstrations, african crafts and an african-inspired food bazaar.
1:30 p.m. learn about shells and the animals that live in them.
stop by the center for stories, music,  science activities and tons of hands-on fun.
$$ colvin run mill, great falls.
national  children's museum launch zone, washington, d.c..
10:30 a.m., 12:30 p.m. and 2:30 p.m.
spring is in the air!
$$ ellanor c. lawrence  park, chantilly.
this show is sure to create a lifelong love of  theater.
$$ jammin' java, vienna.
celebrate bulgarian culture with this interactive puppet show.
look through a telescope  to see the night sky!
enjoy a reading of betsey maestro's story about a bright  yellow taxi's adventures.
back to top apr 3 tuesday bird splash.
throughout downtown bethesda. campfire.
$$  adventure theatre, glen echo.
see horses and riders in  action as they show off their skills.
phone: 301-320-2321 all rights reserved.
hoot like an owl and flutter like a moth as you learn about the creatures in our night skies.
back to top apr 27 friday afternoon aviators.
spend your  spring break learning about the importance of the cabin john watershed.
meet some of the nature center's live birds of prey, such as hawks, falcons and owls.
$$ woodlawn manor house, sandy spring.
multiple locations, washington, d.c.. imagination and creation exploration. &nbspages 5 to 8.
meet at the log house to do some spring cleaning, planting, butter churning and more.
fun family saturdays: fabric arts.
performance by hoop dancer  thirza defoe.
$$ riversdale house museum,  riverdale park.
american indian museum, washington, d.c.. out of the box.
you're a good man, charlie brown.
$$  hidden pond nature center, springfield.
$$  first mariner arena, baltimore.
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. enjoy workshops, demonstrations, a kids mini-mine, vendors and more at this program.
campfire: fearless foxes.
this emmy award-winning production teaches grammar, history, math and science through catchy tunes.
$$ the mall at prince george's, hyattsville.
this non-disney version of  rapunzel teaches children what exactly a "rapunzel" is, a lesson in  open-mindedness and all about rhyming.
be sure to  save some time to play 18th-century games, write with a quill pen and sample  hearth cooking.
$$ prince george's stadium, bowie.
make a craft and  enjoy a night hike.
back to top apr   12   thursday animal explorers with indiana fonz.
visit with the easter bunny.
sing and  dance through the show, then stick around for a workshop where you can play  with kukerica.
reservations required: riversdale@pgparks.com $$ riversdale house museum, riverdale park.
little sleuths can help thomas & friends solve a mystery while riding  against scenic backdrops, playing games, enjoying activities and meeting sir  topham hatt.
kidspy overnight: operation secret slumber. &nbspages 9 to 13.
explore local history and environment with  your little one through story-telling, crafts, songs and outdoor exploration.
$$ jammin' java,  vienna.
design your own  buildings you think should be added to our nation's capital.
when you're done taking it all in, create your own work of art.
back to top apr 7 saturday banjo man & friends family show.
as the circus comes to town, welcome the  elephants and performers as they march on capitol hill to the verizon center.
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. celebrate the farm's 10th birthday with a weekend of pony rides, petting zoos, hayrides and more.
sinbad, the untold tale. &nbspall ages.
get outdoors to discover interesting fruit and vegetable facts, then plant a seed to start your summer vegetable garden.
this musical duo gives off caribbean vibes as they sing, play the guitar and rock out on the conga.
stop by the museum this spring break for cartoons and story time.
the peanuts gang leaps off the newspaper page and onto  the stage in this musical about friendship.
11 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. listen to classic folk tales from other cultures in this program that will have kiddies slithering like a snake, dancing like a monkey and singing like a bird.
6 p.m. enjoy an evening hike and a campfire to learn about owls.
1 p.m. learn about the plants and field crops  grown on the property today and in the past.
$$ kennedy center,  washington, d.c..
walk with a  naturalist.
today's theme: frogs.
explore nature with your youngest naturalist!
back to top mar   26   monday baby chicks.
look and listen for night creatures, including spring peepers and wood frogs.
today's theme: snakes.
you'll even  see some first-hand!
$$ cabin john campground, potomac.
help captain nobeard locate his  lost treasure at this interactive and hilarious performance.
dulles town center, dulles.
leaping leprechauns!.
$$ hylton performing arts center, manassas.
spend your spring break learning about  the importance of the cabin john watershed.
in honor of the national cherry blossom festival, listen to this  improvisational chamber group that explores japanese folklore.
meet  some of the others!
see border collie sheep herding  demonstrations at 1 p.m. $$ clark's elioak farm, ellicott city.
projects include stencil pattern prints, silk-screened scenery  and more.
tots & tales. &nbspall ages.
48th annual gem, mineral & fossil show. &nbspall ages.
darnall's chance  house museum, upper marlboro.
nature for tiny tots.
10:30 a.m. discover the bustling world around the nature center with a hike, then make a craft to take home.
national children's museum launch zone, washington, d.c..
learn about nature through meeting live  animals, exploring outdoors and participating in activities.
build a  small bird bath out of a flower pot.
× washingtonparent.com is best experienced with chrome or firefox.
5 p.m. learn what foods and drink complement particular cheeses.
the puppet co. brings this classic to life, telling the story of pinocchio's quest to become a real boy.
3:30 p.m. listen to  a story about plants and animals, then head outside for a short walk to enjoy  nature.
enjoy a day with everybody's favorite big red dog.
check  website for times.
be sure to try your hand using colonial era farming tools.
at 2 p.m., participate in a hokusai-inspired family activity and demonstration of the art freer and sackler galleries, washington, d.c..
you'll find 400+ free activities and events, including  healthy cooking demonstrations and a visit from the performer behind sesame  street's elmo.
2 p.m. learn about rocks and minerals, then turn out the lights and watch as fluorescent rocks glow.
home articles directories family fun parents only new & notable calendar camp
children will play three surrealist games.
you'll be looking upwards for leo the lion, the great bear and even some planets.
tiny tots:  animal crackers.
$$ prince george's sports &  learning complex, landover.
wammie-winners cathy fink & marcy marxer explore the ukelele as they play songs from their new recording, rockin' the uke. $$ jammin' java, vienna.
national  children's museum launch zone, washington, d.c.. wagon ride: wonderful  wildflowers.
7:30 p.m. enjoy the  sounds of springtime night by imitating frogs, toads and other creatures around  the campfire.
animal explorers with indiana  fonz.
wear green for st. patrick's day as you roast marshmallows.
combine music, science and environmental awareness at this hands-on workshop.
6 to 7:30 p.m. learn about woodcocks, then take a walk to see the spring  courtship ritual of these unusual birds.
raise the rafters winter music series.
$$ african art museum, washington, d.c.. back to top apr 29 sunday before dawn.
listen to a story about plants and animals, then head outside for a short walk to enjoy nature.
performance by hoop dancer thirza defoe.
learn how to tell if a deer or rabbit has visited your garden.
da'originalz featuring beat ya feet.
$$ college park aviation museum,  college park.
the textile museum, washington, d.c.. what to wear?
see the tale of 16-year-old rapunzel, who escapes the  clutches of a wicked witch--and her tower--and embarks on an adventure.
11:30 a.m., 12:30, 1:30 and 2:30 p.m.
$$ college  park aviation museum, college park.
$$ long branch nature center, arlington.
explore local history and environment with your little one through  story-telling, crafts, songs and outdoor exploration.
create your own bookmark and fan using feathers, beads, construction paper  and fabric.
$$  black hill visitor center, boyds.
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. stock up the family library at this used book sale.
portrait gallery, washington, d.c.. rapunzel.
american  art museum, washington, d.c.. bone tales.
toddler tuesdays:  trucks, tools and timber.
$$ district  architecture center, washington, d.c..
learn how to id trees by their bark.
learn about the wildlife that lives in  our region and the habitats that support them.
back to top mar   11   sunday big wicked pools.
spend your spring break learning to play  with activities centered around science, technology, engineering and math.
ages 18 months for 5 years.
$$ national zoo, washington, d.c..
2 p.m. learn to make a proper cup of tea and  the difference between american and british.
random weave birdbath basket.
4701 sangamore road, suite n270,  bethesda, md 20816.
share the ice with scooby doo, tweety bird, the cat in the hat and more. $$ ice skating pavilion, reston town center.
bring your american girl doll for an afternoon  of tea and history.
10:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m.
nbspages 4 and older.
&nbspages 6  and older.
stop by the center for stories, music, science activities and tons of hands-on  fun.
climb aboard for a  wildflower scavenger hunt.
today's theme is ants  go marching.
the national theatre, washington, d.c.. canine  capers.
out  with thomas mystery on the rails tour.
10 a.m. to 4  p.m. celebrate the farm's 10th birthday with a weekend of pony rides, petting  zoos, hayrides and more.
11 a.m. enjoy music, rhymes, books and more to discover the world around you.
tonight's show is a pajama party!
riverside campfire: night wings.
brookside nature center,  wheaton.
get ready for spring by listening to stories about salamanders.
$$ district architecture center, washington, d.c..
decorate it and take it home for your neighborhood's birds to enjoy.
go online to find a site near you.
enjoy stories, crafts and nature activities.
$$ freer and sackler galleries, washington, d.c..
as the circus comes to town, welcome the elephants and performers as they march on capitol hill to the verizon center.
help your child discover nature through nature play, crafts, stories and hikes.
10 a.m. listen to a story and make a  historical-inspired craft.
$$ agricultural history farm park, derwood.
meet a live barred  owl and learn to recognize their call.
cabin john night hike.
royal mail ship titanic centennial.
tiny tots: old mcdonald's farm. &nbspages  0 to 4.
the giggling, wiggling book worm.
celebrate earth day and earn a special badge by completing activities in the junior ranger book.
you'll explore the woods and meadow  for birds, mammals and frogs.
little ones will love these gardening activities, stories, crafts and walks.
11 a.m. and 1 p.m. hunt around the lodge for  colorful eggs.
swamp stomp.  ages 6 and older.
roast marshmallows as you listen to stories around the campfire.
this campfire includes stories, special animal guests, games, songs and s'mores.
tiny tots: old mcdonald's farm.
the magical lamp of aladdin.
learn about plants, animals and their habitats through  songs, crafts and activities.
$$ strathmore mansion, north bethesda.
$$ black hill visitor  center, boyds.
celebrate the farm's  10th birthday with a weekend of pony rides, petting zoos, hayrides and more.
join park manager jim pomeroy for a leisurely exploration into the park  woodlands to see what wildflowers are in bloom.
10 a.m. to 1 p.m. interact with live rabbits, meet the easter bunny and enjoy hands-on crafts and exhibits.
learn how to curate your own exhibit and to create a reproduction of a piece in the collection.
ring in the start of baseball season with this minor league home opener.
today's theme: bird nests.
$$ maryland science center, baltimore.
11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. the puppet co. brings this  classic to life, telling the story of pinocchio's quest to become a real boy.
this fast-paced program showcases the  kennedy string quartet as they show off musical contrasts that work  together--fast with slow, soft with loud and more. $$ kennedy center,  washington, d.c..
tiny tots: old mcdonald's  farm. &nbspages 0 to 4.
head to the mall for  free themed crafts, activities, snacks, entertainment and more.
cabin john playground,  rockville.
tatebanko: japanese paper dioramas.
meet some of the nature center's live birds of prey, such as hawks,  falcons and owls.
check site for detailed schedule.
this non-disney version of rapunzel teaches children  what exactly a "rapunzel" is, a lesson in open-mindedness and all  about rhyming.
run, walk or bike to help break the silence surrounding autism.
look and  listen for night creatures, including spring peepers and wood frogs.
$$  watkins nature center, upper marlboro.
11 a.m. to 4 p.m. learn about ways you and your child can give back to the community.
2 to 5 p.m. visit the print by print  exhibit, and make your own prints!
search for orion's belt, the winter circle and taurus the bull.
sounds of spring campfire.
$$ spy museum, washington, d.c..
stop by the museum this  spring break for cartoons and story time.
$$ montpelier mansion, laurel.
$$ b&o railroad museum, baltimore.
this puppet show, caterpillars and  polliwogs, will help young audiences learn about nature.
then, using lincoln logs and dirt, build a replica fort.
11 a.m. join a  naturalist at the playground to explore the outdoors.
explore nature through short hikes, scavenger hunts, games and crafts.
$$ kennedy center, washington, d.c..
$$ port  discovery, baltimore.
$$ maryland science  center, baltimore.
$$  green spring gardens park, alexandria.
see four snakes, four turtles and other reptiles, and then  watch a staff member feed them.
$$ meadowside nature center, rockville.
10:30 a.m. and 1  p.m.
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. stock up the family library at this  used book sale.
stories with ranger steph: what gets your goat?.
moreover, you'll hear a garden hose and a funnel horn, three types of trombones and a baby violin.
immerse yourself in the world of shakespeare.
national  children's museum launch zone, washington, d.c.. puppet show: hurrah for  spring.
bring a chocolate bar to make s'mores! $$ meadowside nature center, rockville.
back to top mar   16   friday afternoon aviators.
back to top apr   27   friday afternoon aviators.
sing, dance and listen to  stories at this cultural program.
&nbspages 18 months for 5  years.
to celebrate st. patrick's day, make a craft, search for gold and tell stories.
national gallery  of art, washington, d.c..
dar museum,  washington, d.c..
earth day party for the planet.
$$ locust  grove nature center, bethesda.
$$ masonic theater, old town alexandria.
$$ s. dillon ripley center, washington,  d..c.. rocknoceros in concert.
explore african culture through storytelling, songs, music and dance.
national children's museum  launch zone, national harbor.
1 p.m. enjoy a kid-friendly menu, story time  and children's music at this tea time.
put on your walking shoes for  this interpretive night hike of the underground railroad experience.
take a  two-mile hike through the meadows and woods.
birds aren't the only ones laying eggs in the spring.
walter e. washington convention center, washington, d.c..
rocknocerous happy family hour.  all ages.
american indian museum, washington, d.c.. ponderings.
$$ hidden  oaks nature center, annandale.
the mother goose caboose.
have fun with nature-related stories, crafts, games and hikes.
celebrate with family  activities, animal demonstrations, african crafts and an african-inspired food  bazaar.
today's free family sunday includes a  hands-on craft.
map your route to the launch zone to celebrate the anniversary of the publishing of the first u.s. map.
national zoo, washington, d.c.. gem mining weekend.
back to top apr 11 wednesday kids korner: spring.
this workshop breaks down frida kahlo's creativity and surrealism into terms kids can understand.
postal  museum, washington, d.c.. maryland day open house.
red star red army  chorus and dance ensemble.
$$ kennedy center, washington, d.c.. rapunzel.
10 a.m. discover the wonders of nature  through songs, crafts, finger plays and mini-hikes.
the puppet co. brings this classic to life, telling the story of pinocchio's quest to become a real boy. $$ the puppet co., glen echo.
check out some of the specimens collected at brookside over the past 50 years.
1 and  3 p.m. use a manga-style activity book to explore the exhibit, masters of  mercy: buddha's amazing disciples.
dulles  town center, dulles.
&nbspages 6 to 9. 4 p.m.
ages 0 to 12 months with caretaker.
explore the wonderful world of worms while learning about composting.
$$ agricultural farm park, derwood.
the national theatre, washington, d.c.. bash the  trash. &nbspages 4 and older.
children will compete in different age groups to gather the most  eggs!
today's theme is baby  animals.
discover the bustling world around the nature center on a  mini-hike.
11 a.m. to 4  p.m. celebrate the earth as you learn how to grow your own garden, decorate  garden accessories and more.
let your curiosity drive you on this nature walk.
hop into spring and see your favorite bunny!
stop by for a story and themed craft.
the whole family will love using a gps to locate hidden containers.
7 p.m. learn to identify frogs and toads by  their calls as you explore pools and ponds.
look through a telescope to see the night sky!
today's theme is ants go marching.
meadowside nature center's 40th anniversary.
spring stars & citizen science.
back to top mar   10   saturday amphibians at maydale.
sinbad, the untold tale.  all ages.
listen to a story about plants and animals, then head outside for a  short walk to enjoy nature.
1:30  p.m. learn about shells and the animals that live in them.
activity list on  website.
jam-min'  family day.
the puppet co.  brings this classic to life, telling the story of pinocchio's quest to become a  real boy.
back to top mar   18   sunday 48th annual gem, mineral & fossil show. &nbspall  ages.
take a ride along the rocky run stream trail and learn about the plants and animals that call the trail home.
1 p.m. from high in the sky to deep in  the ocean, national geographic's team is capturing amazing images of our world.
strathmore mansion, north  bethesda.
national  building museum, washington, d.c.. young portrait explorers: duke ellington.
$$ brookside nature  center, wheaton.
this show is sure to create a lifelong love of theater.
back to top apr 8 sunday egg hunt.
rabbit: fact and fable.
natural history museum, washington, d.c.. sinbad, the untold tale.
prices range from 50 cents to $3. $$ gesher jewish day school, fairfax.
you'll be looking upwards  for leo the lion, the great bear and even some planets.
vibrant vernal pools.
head to the mall for a  professional photo with the easter bunny.
3 p.m. university of maryland's gamer symphony orchestra plays arrangements of video game music.
design your own buildings you think should be added to our nation's capital.
celebrate the gift of cherry trees with hands-on activities, such as artful origami.
discover how mud can be fun through  stories, activities and mud art.
hop into spring  and see your favorite bunny!
bring a basket and hunt for the golden egg!
preschool storytime.
this group of 70 singers, dancers and musicians dazzles crowds with songs of love, melancholy, mischief and comedy. $$ strathmore, north bethesda.
10:30 a.m. and 1 p.m.
walk through the  galleries and follow the artists' clues in search of spring.
$$ the  puppet co., glen echo.
the museum is celebrating jam--jazz appreciation month.
native  storytelling by thirza defoe.
nbspages 5 and younger.
university of maryland, college park.
children can spread their wings as they listen to stories about raptors, meet raptors and make a craft.
this environmental film festival, now in its 20th year, will screen 34 animated, documentary, imax and feature films for children and family across the city.
make memories with grandchildren by  participating in this nature program.
back to top mar 9 friday afternoon aviators.
$$ riverbend park, great falls.
back to top mar 21 wednesday digging dinos.
noon to 5 p.m. go fly a kite in the peaceful pastures of the plantation--you can bring your own or buy one on the spot.
los quetzales mexican dance ensemble.
$$ brookside nature center,  wheaton.
throughout downtown bethesda.
$$ clark's elioak farm,  ellicott city.
audience members work with the virginia virtuosi rescue squad in  this interactive musical performance.
postal museum, washington, d.c.. nana malaya: a song, a story, a  dance.
back to top apr 4 wednesday bunny bonanza.
learn how to sign, play and  speak french from quebec children's author annie groovie.
be sure to save some time to play 18th-century games, write with a quill pen and sample hearth cooking.
8 p.m. celebrate st. patrick's day with "the jimi hendrix of the violin" and her band.
audiences will be wowed by  superhuman stunts ane never-before-seen performances at the greatest show on  earth.
then, head to the classroom for instruction  in anime and manga drawing.
$$ ellanor c. lawrence park, chantilly.
welcome  the easter bunny.
take home a seedling to plant.
&nbspages 2  and older.
tiny tots: animal crackers.
head to the mall for a professional photo with  the easter bunny.
share the ice with scooby doo,  tweety bird, the cat in the hat and more. $$ ice skating pavilion, reston town  center.
celebrate st. patrick's day with discovery theater. $$ s. dillon ripley center, washington, d..c.. st. patrick's day green and growing scavenger hunt.
2 p.m. celebrate st. patrick's day with irish stories, music and the  legend of why there are no snakes in ireland.
back to top apr   23   monday junior naturalists.
2 to 5 p.m. visit the print by print exhibit, and make  your own prints!
get all your fox  questions answered: where they live, how they hunt, what baby foxes look like  and more.
at 2 p.m., participate  in a hokusai-inspired family activity and demonstration of the art freer and  sackler galleries, washington, d.c..
today's  theme: animal superstitions.
back to top mar   13   tuesday environmental film festival in nation's capital.
enjoy tasty treats and a short film,  caterpillar and polliwog, around the campfire.
$$ the mall at prince george's,  hyattsville.
collection connection.
portrayed in shadow puppetry.
then,  take in the beautiful cherry trees in the gardens.
dar museum, washington, d.c..
join a naturalist for a  hands-on adventure.
learn all about lightning bugs  through stories and a craft.
$$  meadowside nature center, rockville.
a  moonbounce will be open all day, pets on wheels will be around from 11 a.m. to  1 p.m. and the kindersinger will be jamming at 1 p.m. $$ port discovery,  baltimore.
tiny tots: the mother goose caboose.
head to the sears court of the mall for a  family-friendly concert at the mall!
celebrate st.  patrick's day with discovery theater.
stop by the center for  stories, music, science activities and tons of hands-on fun.
make your own binoculars, then hike the trails in search of birds.
the  peanuts gang leaps off the newspaper page and onto the stage in this musical  about friendship.
6 p.m. learn about the  sounds and habits of foxes, along with how to distinguish a fox from a coyote  at 50 yards.
tiny talon tales.  ages 3 to 5.
talk about the different types of artillery used during the civil war.
$$ gulf branch nature  center, arlington.
stargazing at the public observatory.
nbspages 7 and older.
book of the month: taxi.
the national theatre, washington, d.c.. storytime at the  kreeger.
home | about us | ad info | press room | contact us copyright © 2011 washington parent.
national cherry blossom festival  family day.
help the princess learn about sun safety and complete the ancient royal challenge so she can become queen.
then, make a fossil replica to take home.
$$ the puppet co., glen echo.
$$ hidden oaks nature center,  annandale.
registration required.
woodcock watching hike.
hunt for treat-filled eggs in the park, then visit the animals.
learn how animals use trickery to get a meal or keep from being a meal.
younger visitors will enjoy  hands-on crafts and a photo booth.
ages 18 to 36 months.
lure in seldom-seen flying squirrels with peanuts.
stories  by john himmelman.
sleeping beauty. &nbspages 6 and older.
children's author john himmelman will tell stories about some amazing, but lesser-known creatures.
goodnight walk: owls.
raise money and awareness for epilepsy at this family  event.
learn to sign, speak and play in french with children's author annie groovie.
this non-disney  version of rapunzel teaches children what exactly a "rapunzel" is, a  lesson in open-mindedness and all about rhyming.
cobaya dance theater.
day out with thomas  mystery on the rails tour.
this interactive  musical adventure lets kids "rescue" elephants, kangaroos and even  bumble bees.
11 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. learn about the fabrics, patterns and styles of american clothing circa 1812.
6 to 7:30 p.m. learn about woodcocks, then take a walk to see the spring courtship ritual of these unusual birds.
activities include crafts, science experiments and tours.
back to top mar   14   wednesday brookside tot times.
this community health fair features cook and tell with mccormick & company inc. along with plenty of other health-inspired activities.
the magical  lamp of aladdin.
annapolis book festival.
&nbspages 18 to 35 months.
end the program with  a trip outdoors.
young art lovers can hear about the  current exhibition at this kid-friendly tour.
this puppet show is  perfect for young patrons: the shows are shorter, the lights stay on low and  the door remains open.
$$ ellanor c. lawrence park,  chantilly.
11:30 a.m. and  2 p.m.
back to top mar 16 friday afternoon aviators.
teen studio: drawing.
this 30-minute,  nonverbal show tells the story of a young girl named pj as she discovers the  possibilities one box can hold.
learn  to juggle, balance and more with former circus performer greg may. $$ port  discovery, baltimore.
$$ hidden oaks  nature center, annandale.
11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. this non-disney version of rapunzel teaches children what exactly a "rapunzel" is, a lesson in open-mindedness and all about rhyming.
$$ great country farms, bluemont.
super science saturday: space shuttle.
11 a.m. to 2 p.m.  "harvest" a few marshmallows to roast over a bonfire, then hunt for  some eggs the easter bunny hid.
$$ the kreeger  museum, washington, d.c..
watch a short film "make way for ducklings," then take a walk around the pond, make a craft and enjoy s'mores.
this program is fun for  preschoolers, with story time and a craft.
bring a chocolate bar to make  s'mores! $$ meadowside nature center, rockville.
freer and sackler galleries, washington, d.c.. visit with the bunny.
get all your fox questions answered: where they live, how they hunt, what baby foxes look like and more.
$$ s. dillon ripley  center, washington, d.c..
learn about real-life bears, too.
listen to a story about plants and animals.
experience  the wonders of nature through finger plays, stories, activities and outdoor  exploration.
you might even meet a  slippery friend!
amphibians after dark.
11 a.m. to 5 p.m. enjoy workshops, demonstrations, a kids mini-mine, vendors and more at this program.
the puppet co. brings this classic to life, telling the story  of pinocchio's quest to become a real boy. $$ the puppet co., glen echo.
egg-cellent adventures.
tots & tales.  all ages.
dance, sing, wiggle and giggle in this interactive  program.
the  great zucchini performs a colorful magic show that will have every child  laughing.
annual potomac river watershed cleanup.
help the princess learn about sun safety  and complete the ancient royal challenge so she can become queen.
spend the afternoon learning about native wildflowers through a slide show and hike.
$$ watkins nature  center, upper marlboro.
exhibit, then become an animal architect and create your own miniature wooden doghouse.
barred owls campfire.
$$ cf smith park,  arlington.
meet the stars of mythbusters, learn potato chip science and more.
national children's museum launch zone, washington, d.c.. wagon ride: wonderful wildflowers.
touch brushes, palettes, bison  hides and bottle caps to learn about materials used to make art.
get closer to mother nature  at this native plants sale that includes tree activities, forest-friendly  crafts, forest critters and more. $$ brookside nature center, wheaton.
explore "what's underneath" the water at this nature program.
creature feature: reptiles.
just a  dream: the green play.
welcome the easter bunny with this party that includes face painting, balloon twisters and treats.
hike with a naturalist as you look for turtles basking in the  sun.
back to top mar   22   thursday book sale.
$$ olney  theatre center, olney.
if the  weather's nice, you can go for a short walk.
learn about what grows in spring and the role rain plays.
nbspages 1 and older.
the national  theatre, washington, d.c.. earth day campfire.
this emmy award-winning production  teaches grammar, history, math and science through catchy tunes.
10 a.m. to 2 p.m. drop  in and try out a new hobby: topical stamp collecting.
mysteries of mail family day. &nbspall  ages.
this puppet show is perfect for young patrons: the shows are shorter,  the lights stay on low and the door remains open.
$$ atlas performing  arts center, washington, d.c.. cabin fever!.
don't miss this chance to look through a professional telescope.
discover how mud can be fun through stories, activities and mud art.
$$ hidden pond nature center, springfield.
you'll explore the woods and meadow for birds, mammals and frogs.
reproduction  of any content requires permission of the publishers.
back to top mar   25   sunday animal rescue: a musical adventure.
travel around the world's oceans through this black-light puppet show.
10:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
registrations  required.
national cherry  blossom festival family day.
2 p.m. join the tradition of making a may  basket and fill it with flowers to hang on the front door of friends or  neighbors.
go on a nighttime search for salamanders,  spring peepers, wood frogs and more.
$$ meadowside  nature center, rockville.
back to top apr   8   sunday egg hunt.
program includes a tour, a story and a craft.
nbspages 6 and older.
10 a.m. celebrate earth day
well known in the indie family music scene, justin and co. will play songs from the family music cd, jungle gym. $$ jammin' java, vienna.
rover's rad retreat.  ages 6 to 11.
11:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m.
learn the meaning of your name and how to create a family tree.
american art museum,  washington, d.c..
7:30 p.m. learn the history behind earth day and how you can become more earth-friendly.
in this play for young audiences, sinbad and ittifaq battle a bitter sorceress who has cast a poison cloud over the city.
you're  a good man, charlie brown.
saturday arts for families.
then, stay warm around a campfire while munching on a treat.
surrealism workshop. &nbspall ages.
2:15 and 3 p.m. hunt for treat-filled eggs in the  park, then visit the animals.
$$ former regan dance center,  landmark mall, alexandria.
48th annual gem, mineral & fossil show.
let the moon be your flashlight on this night hike.
11 a.m. to 4 p.m. learn about ways  you and your child can give back to the community.
visit with the easter  bunny.
this non-disney version of rapunzel teaches children what  exactly a "rapunzel" is, a lesson in open-mindedness and all about  rhyming.
how fast can they crawl?
the peanuts gang leaps off the  newspaper page and onto the stage in this musical about friendship.
learn how and why forts were build in arlington in the civil war.
this adapted mozart opera is an hour of elaborate special  effects, marionettes and music.
it's a modern-day treasure hunt!
$$ imagination stage,  bethesda.
enjoy cherry blossom season through hands-on activities, art demonstrations and performances.
native storytelling by thirza defoe.
11:30 a.m.,  12:30, 1:30 and 2:30 p.m.
you'll  explore the woods and meadow for birds, mammals and frogs.
stoneybrooke twilight hike.
air and space museum,  washington, d.c..
put on your hard hat and  get to work!
spend your spring break learning to play with activities centered around  science, technology, engineering and math.
head to the sears court of the mall for a family-friendly concert at the mall!
by planting native trees and shrubs on public lands, mulching and repairing park trails and recycling household materials.
discover the wonders of nature  through songs, crafts, finger plays and mini-hikes.
cherry blossom music festival.
kids and adults will rock out at this family-friendly show.
back to top apr   26   thursday amphibian campfire.
2 p.m. take a wagon ride along the rocky run  stream trail and learn about the plants and animals you see along the way.
see border collie sheep herding demonstrations at 1 p.m. $$ clark's elioak farm, ellicott city.
robots in the great  hall.
2 p.m. create a layered miniature diorama using images of japanese artist katsushika hokusai's prints as inspiration.
join park manager jim pomeroy for a leisurely exploration into the park woodlands to see what wildflowers are in bloom.
&nbspages 10  and older.
bob brown's  puppets: bunny business. &nbspages 2 and older.
audiences will be wowed by superhuman stunts and  never-before-seen performances at the greatest show on earth.
children can spread their wings as they  listen to stories about raptors, meet raptors and make a craft.
visit  with the bunny.
pioneer spring chores.
projects include stencil pattern  prints, silk-screened scenery and more.
the audience will chant and sing as a part of the show.
family fun:  composting abcs.
washingtonian  center, gaithersburg.
environmental film fest: an animated  retrospective. &nbspall ages.
do your part in keeping our waterways clean.
science  and engineering festival satellite program.
reproduction of any content requires permission of the publishers.
this environmental film festival, now in its 20th year, will screen  34 animated, documentary, imax and feature films for children and family across  the city.
bloomingdale's, chevy chase.
2 p.m. learn to make a proper cup of tea.
there's no school today, so spend it on an adventure!
help them rescue elephants, kangaroos and  bumble bees! $$ colvin run mill, great falls.
the perfect introduction to opera for  children!
back to top apr   18   wednesday just a dream: the green play.
stop by for a day dedicated to the little ones!
join a naturalist to build a birdhouse, paint it and take it home.
geneva day school will host storytime.
stories by john himmelman.
$$ riverbend park,  great falls.
10 a.m. explore field to stream and everything in  between.
milkshake in concert.
if you're  lucky, you may even spot a satellite!
11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m.
for the birds family hike.  ages 8 and older.
$$ rippon lodge historic site, woodbridge.
tot rock: jammin at the smithsonian.
this inspiring song and dance performance aims to empower african children.
get to know the great outdoors!
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. all  aboard!
back to top apr   5   thursday animals from eggs.
tour the sidney harman  hall stage, then get to work and build your own mini stage set.
american indian museum, washington, d.c.. preschool songs and stories.
environmental film festival in nation's capital.
learn  about butterflies through an outdoor activity and craft.
baltimore museum  of art, baltimore.
check website for exact dates and times.
cartoon ice skating. &nbspall ages.
westfield  montgomery mall, bethesda.
create your own  printing block using styrofoam, then recreate print landcapes that convey early  dawn.
the key school, annapolis.
sacagawea's sisters.
make your own binoculars,  then hike the trails in search of birds.
the trains  will be up and running during montgomery county public schools' spring break.
the trains will be up and running during montgomery  county public schools' spring break.
national children's  museum launch zone, national harbor.
$$ cabin  john and wheaton regional parks, montgomery county.
national building museum, washington, d.c.. national cherry blossom festival family day.
$$ brookside  gardens, wheaton.
meet resident raptors, including otis the owl, then take part in raptor-themed activities and crafts.
meet a  rabbit and learn how the tradition of the easter bunny began.
freer and sackler galleries,  washington, d.c.. visit with the bunny.
hike with a naturalist as you look for turtles basking in the sun.
earth day garlic mustard pull.
audiences will be wowed by superhuman  stunts ane never-before-seen performances at the greatest show on earth.
9 a.m. learn to identify common birds you  see in your neighborhood.
when you're done taking it all  in, create your own work of art.
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. families will learn about the science behind hollywood's crime dramas, medical shows and special effects at this festival.
bowie baysox family funfest.
create a miniature diorama using images of  japanese artist katsushika hokusai's landscape prints.
if you can't make it to the usa science and engineering festival,  stop by the launch zone to make your own recycled invention.
this puppet show is perfect for young patrons: the shows are  shorter, the lights stay on low and the door remains open.
$$  hidden oaks nature center, annandale.
surrealism workshop.
stroll among buildings dating back to the 1700s.
washington national opera: family look-in.
10:15  a.m. and noon.
meet the stars of mythbusters, learn potato chip science and  more.
$$ college park aviation museum, college  park.
visit the print  by print exhibit, and make your own prints!
celebrate the birthday of dr. seuss with stories and activities.
11 a.m. to 5 p.m. celebrate nowruz, the persian new  year, with music, dances, costumed characters and a persian bazaar.
&nbspages 24  to 42 months.
put on your hard hat and get to work!
&nbspthis group of 70 singers, dancers  and musicians dazzles crowds with songs of love, melancholy, mischief and  comedy. $$ strathmore, north bethesda.
you're invited to an open dress rehearsal of this original production.
barred owl: stream  valley hunter.
experience the wonders of nature through  finger plays, stories, activities and outdoor exploration.
meet r.l. stine, the author of the goosebumps children series and participate in a slew of activities for children's and adults!
you may  even get to meet an animal up close! $$ riverbend park, great falls.
tiny tots: magic  toyshop. &nbspages 0 to 4.
interact with your child as they discover the wonders of nature through songs, crafts, finger plays and mini-hikes.
$$ shop at farthing's ordinary, st.  mary's city.
the trains will be up and running during montgomery county public schools' spring break. $$ cabin john and wheaton regional parks, montgomery county.
9:30 and 11 a.m. listen to fairytales and historical tales as told by the always entertaining lynn ruehlmann.
9 a.m. learn to identify common birds you see in your neighborhood.
get transported to ralph's world, a musical planet where kids can dance and rock out.
hands-on architecture.
$$ clark's  elioak farm, ellicott city.
learn about dinosaurs at this program.
reservations required: riversdale@pgparks.com $$ riversdale house  museum, riverdale park.
check website for exact dates  and times.
$$ national building museum, washington, d.c.. cabin john creek days.
the  mall at prince george's, hyattsville.
1 to 3 p.m. march madness hits lake anne, and kids can get in on the fun!
the national theatre, washington,  d.c..
$$ b&o railroad  museum, baltimore.
7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. stock up the family library at  this used book sale.
3 p.m. take a family-friendly trip to outerspace with these two short musicals: star corps iv: the search for mind zap and oh my, an invasion! $$ gunston arts center, arlington.
back to top mar 27 tuesday ringling bros. and barnum & bailey: fully charged.
this emmy award-winning production teaches grammar, history,  math and science through catchy tunes.
walks leaving at 10, 10:30, 11, 11:30, noon and 12:30.
family fun activities.
10 a.m. to 6  p.m. all aboard!
today's theme is animal movement.
for the birds family hike.
noon to 3 p.m. amaze a friend by sending an old-fashioned, handwritten letter instead of the usual text.
children's talk and tour.
back to top mar 20 tuesday digging dinos.
today's theme is animal care.
10 a.m. listen to a story and make a historical-inspired craft.
experience the flora and  fauna of the park through an early morning walk.
× washingtonparent.com is best experienced with  chrome or firefox.
there's no school today, so spend it  on an adventure!
back to top mar   30   friday afternoon aviators.
$$ meadowside nature center,  rockville.
$$ montgomery county  fairgrounds, gaithersburg.
take a ride along the rocky run  stream trail and learn about the plants and animals that call the trail home.
listen to a story about a possum who wonders who's making that peep, peep,  peep!
$$ the connelly school of the  holy child, potomac.
$$ atlas performing arts center, washington, d.c.. cabin fever!.
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. children will compete in different age groups to gather the most eggs!
$$ s. dillon ripley center, washington, d.c.. pinocchio.
$$ jammin'  java, vienna.
take a photo with princess cherrybella and compete in a pink treasure hunt.
find out how temporary wetlands provide a breeding habitat for frogs, salamanders and other amphibians.
celebrate national  robotics week by heading to the great hall to see some in action.
&nbspages  5 and older.
back to top apr 13 friday afternoon aviators.
be a wood turner's apprentice for the day, and learn how to sand,  polish and weave chairs.
robots in the great hall.
1 p.m. set up camp, learn about the items soldiers carried with them and how they occupied their time.
$$  college park aviation museum, college park.
learn about building through  stories, games, art and movement.
celebrate earth day early with this scavenger hike.
take a stroller/backpack ride through the woods with your little one.
subscribe to  our e-newsletter and get exclusive giveaways!
the mall at prince george's, hyattsville.
&nbspages 3 and older.
back to top apr 12 thursday animal explorers with indiana fonz.
fairmount heights library, fairmount heights.
three dynamic performers come together  to strum, juggle and hum.
11 a.m. to 5 p.m. enjoy workshops, demonstrations, a kids mini-mine,  vendors and more at this program.
nature tots:  fur and feathers.
learn which animals hatch from eggs, then go on a hike to search for hidden  eggs.
10:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
&nbspages  2 and older.
$$ gulf branch nature center,  arlington.
explore the wonders of nature through finger plays, stories, activities and outdoor exploration.
&nbspages 9 months to 2 years.
story time and hands-on activities make the perfect thursday morning  activity for preschoolers.
stories from around the world.
interact with live rabbits, meet the easter bunny and enjoy hands-on crafts and  exhibits.
it's a modern-day  treasure hunt!
11 a.m. and 1:30 p.m.
the holy child tiger trot.
pop up science at 11:30 a.m.,  exploration station from 1 to 3 p.m. and pets on wheels at 1 p.m. $$ port  discovery, baltimore.
watch three puppet shows, then listen to the native american legend of how butterflies came to be.
10 a.m. to 3 p.m. celebrate the contributions of women in aviation, space and aerospace!
4:30  p.m. learn about nature through meeting live animals, exploring outdoors and  participating in activities.
life in a vernal pool.
meet some of the nature center's live reptiles, such as snakes,  lizards and turtles.
back to top apr 23 monday junior naturalists.
back to top mar 17 saturday 10th annual world dance showcase.
celebrate  american women whose acts of courage shaped our country, including amelia  earhart and hellen keller.
3 p.m. join the bsi--bone scene investigation--to find out what bones tell us about their former owners.
back to top apr 19 thursday
learn about nature through meeting live animals, exploring  outdoors and participating in activities.
beltsville branch library, beltsville.
you'll learn  about freshwater, seawater and land-dwelling intertebrates.
2:15 and 3 p.m. hunt for treat-filled eggs in the park, then visit the animals.
back to top apr   3   tuesday bird splash.
make a clifford dog collar, enjoy balloon sculptures and watch the orioles bird and testudo the terp play a friendly game of tug of war.
this show is sure to create a  lifelong love of theater.
you might even meet a slippery friend!
$$ national building museum,  washington, d.c..
virginia hunters horse show.
back to top apr   9   monday campfire.
secret agent 23 squidoo mixes entertainment, education and hot beats in this hip-hop show.
$$ kennedy center, washington, d.c.. spring bazaar.
get a guided tour of the mansion  and learn about its history and architecture.
the gallery celebrates the cherry blossom festival with a family-friendly performance by harpist mariko anraku and sho player mayumi miyata.
celebrating national volunteer month.
nbspages 3 and  older.
the whole family is invited to look at the spring sky and count the number of stars.
&nbspages 3 and  older.
$$ imagination stage, bethesda. stem in spring.
be sure to wear waterproof  shoes!
back to top apr 21 saturday an evening with flying squirrels.
join naturalists on a one-hour hike to  explore the woodlands.
$$ the puppet co.,  glen echo.
eileen ivers and immigrant soul. &nbspall  ages.
performance by hoop  dancer thirza defoe.
10:30 a.m. and 7:30 p.m.
the national theatre, washington, d.c.. bash the trash.
see the tale of  16-year-old rapunzel, who escapes the clutches of a wicked witch--and her  tower--and embarks on an adventure.
explore the universe.
you're a good  man, charlie brown.
get  ready for spring by listening to stories about salamanders.
go after sunset to lure in flying squirrels with peanuts! $$ black hill visitor center, boyds.
$$ clark's elioak farm, ellicott city.
the classic pinocchio story is  reimagined in hip-hopia, an enchanted land where people speak in rhyme and  breakdance instead of walk.
children are sure to make friends at this program that includes stories, crafts and hikes.
the myth of persephone.
11 a.m.,  noon, 12:45 p.m., 1:30 p.m.
celebrate the birthday of dr.  seuss with stories and activities.
9:15 a.m. to 4 p.m. little sleuths can help thomas & friends solve a mystery while riding against scenic backdrops, playing games, enjoying activities and meeting sir topham hatt.
listen to stories, sing songs and enjoy other activities with an  earth day theme.
experience birds live and up close, then learn about their feeding  habits through an owl pellet dissection.
oxon hill branch library, oxon hill.
vibrant  vernal pools.
children will use their imagination to explore paintings,  culture and architecture.
red star red army chorus and dance ensemble.
back to top mar 11 sunday big wicked pools.
after storytime, stick around to learn to recreate the sounds of a symphony using musical instruments and your own body.
toddler tuesdays: trucks, tools and timber.
don't miss this chance to look through a professional  telescope.
$$ s. dillon ripley center, washington, d..c.. salamander stories.
children will compete in different age groups to gather the most eggs!
back to top mar 24 saturday a history of black hill's bald eagles.
back to top mar   15   thursday busy beavers.
ages 9 months to 2 years.
eric energy will host a science show and
reservations  suggested.
back to top mar 25 sunday animal rescue: a musical adventure.
meet at the log house to do some spring cleaning,  planting, butter churning and more.
experience mexican culture at this  exciting dance performance.
national children's museum launch zone,  washington, d.c..
learn how women burst onto the music scene in the early days of rock 'n' roll.
noon to 3 p.m. celebrate prince george's 316th  birthday with a museum visit, craft, refreshments and more.
travel across the country to discover some  of america's greatest art treasures.
see the tale of 16-year-old  rapunzel, who escapes the clutches of a wicked witch--and her tower--and  embarks on an adventure.
&nbspages 6 and older.
how  fast can they crawl?
back to top mar 13 tuesday environmental film festival in nation's capital.
audiences will be wowed by superhuman stunts ane never-before-seen  performances at the greatest show on earth.
back to top apr   7   saturday banjo man & friends family show.
learn about the people who find, save and create  homes for animals who come from all over the world.
tiny tots: bunny business.
fox family in spring.
reston town  center, reston.
it's spring, and frogs and  salamanders are laying jelly-like, slimy eggs.
follow giant green leprechaun footsteps through the garden for some st.  patrick's day fun.
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. families will learn about the science behind hollywood's crime dramas, medical shows and special effects at this festival.
make way for ducklings  campfire.
experience the wonders of nature through finger plays, stories, activities and outdoor exploration.
moreover, you'll hear a garden  hose and a funnel horn, three types of trombones and a baby violin.
hop on down to the launch zone to explore the pond and the creatures that live there.
3:30 p.m. listen to a story about  plants and animals, then head outside for a short walk to enjoy nature.
$$ visitor's center, st. mary's city.
peter pan club.  ages 5 and younger.
from birds to bugs, animals love mud.
follow giant green leprechaun footsteps through the garden for some st. patrick's day fun.
oxon cove park, oxon cove.
this adapted mozart opera is an hour of  elaborate special effects, marionettes and music.
see  the tale of 16-year-old rapunzel, who escapes the clutches of a wicked  witch--and her tower--and embarks on an adventure.
check website for exact dates and  times.
freer and sackler  galleries, washington, d.c..
dar  museum, washington, d.c..
you're invited to an open dress  rehearsal of this original production.
2 to 5 p.m. listen to a story about pianist and big-band leader duke  ellington, then create a piece of art.
this sleepover lets kids go through "spy school" and complete a mission.
tiny tots: magic toyshop.
learn to juggle, balance and more with former circus performer greg may. $$ port discovery, baltimore.
then, take in the beautiful cherry trees in the gardens.
1 p.m. learn about butterflies through an outdoor activity and craft.
&nbspages 18 months for  5 years.
build your own paper airplane and compete in a paper airplane derby.
7:30 to 9 p.m. take a two-mile hike through the meadows and woods.
to celebrate st. patrick's day, make a  craft, search for gold and tell stories.
this 30-minute, nonverbal show tells the story of a young  girl named pj as she discovers the possibilities one box can hold. $$ former  regan dance center, landmark mall, alexandria.
free with paid admission.
11 a.m. and 3 p.m. watch the thrilling story of aladdin, jamal, princess  jasmine and three comical genies.
11 a.m. to 1 p.m. capital city mamas is helping to welcome bkids, a new children's department, to bloomingdale's.
back to top apr   14   saturday 24th
1  to 4 p.m. explore brookside's nature collection, make a craft, play a game and  read a story.
stop by the  center for stories, music, science activities and tons of hands-on fun.
flying squirrel lore  & more.
this  non-disney version of rapunzel teaches children what exactly a  "rapunzel" is, a lesson in open-mindedness and all about rhyming.
10:15  a.m. take a tour of the "you are what you eat" exhibit and complete a  hands-on activity.
help captain nobeard locate his lost treasure at this interactive and hilarious performance.
spend a day at the national gallery looking at art, experimenting with studio materials and meeting other teens!
easter monday at the national  zoo is a tradition in the african american community.
play classic and modern video games, too!
subscribe to our e-newsletter and get exclusive giveaways!
join  naturalist annie and friends to meet live animals and explore hidden pond park.
introducing bkids at bloomingdale's  chevy chase.
$$ sully historic site, chantilly.
wild ones: we like to move it, move it!.
explore  vernal pools, which are filled with frog eggs and salamanders.
11 a.m. to 2 p.m. "harvest" a few marshmallows to roast over a bonfire, then hunt for some eggs the easter bunny hid.
orion and the winter circle.
raise money and awareness for epilepsy at this family event.
for registrations, email museum@dar.org.
go on an outdoor egg hunt and visit  dinoland in nature playce.
$$ maydale park, silver  spring.
this free festival lets kids mingle with baysox mascot
join a naturalist for hands-on adventures.
touch brushes, palettes, bison hides and bottle caps to learn about materials used to make art.
get a guided tour of the mansion and learn about its history and architecture.
learn to make observations and ask questions about  artwork.
kids will make instruments from recycled materials and play  them in a parade.
watch dances from around the world at this showcase, including the washington korean dance company, foggy bottom morris men, furia flamenca and more. $$ publick playhouse, cheverly.
this eco-friendly play uses puppets and stage effects to  tell the story of walter the litterbug.
the giggling, wiggling book worm. &nbspall  ages.
this 30-minute, nonverbal show tells the story of a young girl named pj as she discovers the possibilities one box can hold. $$ former regan dance center, landmark mall, alexandria.
children's author  john himmelman will tell stories about some amazing, but lesser-known  creatures.
it's spring break.. &nbspall ages.
make a clifford dog collar, enjoy balloon sculptures and  watch the orioles bird and testudo the terp play a friendly game of tug of war.
watch piano prodigy matthew bortnick, 11,  as he wows audiences with everything from bach to the beatles. $$ strathmore,  north bethesda.
dress up as a princess and  your family gets a free hay ride.
live sharks, rays  and more.
discover the bustling world around the nature center with a hike, then  make a craft to take home.
$$ ellanor c.  lawrence park, chantilly.
learn about life onboard the titanic and the postal workers who processed tons  of mail at sea.
second saturday arts & science:
$$ locust grove nature  center, bethesda.
noon to 3:30 p.m. join a salamander enthusiast  to observe huge spotted and marble salamanders.
$$ folger shakespeare library, washington, d.c..
learn about the sounds and habits of foxes, along with how to  distinguish a fox from a coyote at 50 yards.
$$ montgomery county fairgrounds,  gaithersburg.
wild ones: redbud vs. dogwood.
try your hand at a live-action game while jamming out to a  soundtrack by dj mko.
kidspy overnight: operation secret slumber.
don't forget your basket!
1  p.m. learn about butterflies through an outdoor activity and craft.
3 p.m. learn about butterflies through an outdoor activity and craft.
back to top mar   28   wednesday digging dinos.
this eco-friendly play uses  puppets and magical stage effects to bring the story of walter the litterbug to  life.
meet a live shark and other fish.
join a bird  vs. human challenge to see how you stack up against birds' abilities.
portrait gallery, washington, d.c.. back to top apr 10 tuesday tiny tots.
experience birds live and up close, then learn about their feeding habits through an owl pellet dissection.
national children's museum launch zone, national harbor.
creature feature: raptors.
$$ national geographic live,  washington, d.c..
$$ locust grove  nature center, bethesda.
happy birthday, dr.  seuss!.
map your route to the launch zone to  celebrate the anniversary of the publishing of the first u.s. map.
explore local history and environment with your little one through story-telling, crafts, songs and outdoor exploration.
$$ the mall at prince  george's, hyattsville.
2 to 4  p.m. join in for aviation-themed activities every friday afternoon.
puppets, songs and live critters will teach about nature.
stop by the museum for a fun, hands-on activity.
$$ black hill visitor center, boyds. rapunzel.
explore  local history and environment with your little one through story-telling,  crafts, songs and outdoor exploration.
8 p.m. take a family-friendly  trip to outerspace with these two short musicals: star corps iv: the search for  mind zap and
celebrate american women whose acts of courage shaped our country, including amelia earhart and hellen keller.
mole salamander search.
children can participate in hands-on aviation-themed activities.
it's spring break..  all ages.
$$ arts barn, gaithersburg.
10 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. d.c. is in bloom, and you can celebrate by designing and collecting stamps.
watch as five silly siblings, who  just happen to be monkeys, do things their own way and mayhem ensues.
2 p.m. create a miniature  diorama using images of japanese artist katsushika hokusai's landscape prints.
ages 6 and older. 8 p.m.
1 p.m. enjoy some of the most  popular animated films screened during the 20 years of the environmental film  festival.
family fun: composting abcs.
this  eco-friendly play uses puppets and stage effects to tell the story of walter  the litterbug.
this puppet show, hurrah for spring!, will help young audiences learn about nature.
this fundraiser will have plenty of activities for kids, including carnival games, healthy snacks and a dj.
11  a.m. to 6 p.m. this free festival will include live "battles,"  dockside ship tours, food and craft vendors and plenty of children's activities  and entertainment.
back to top apr 25 wednesday a history of bald eagles.
experience mexican culture at this exciting dance performance.
as you walk, listen for signs of animals.
$$ adventure theatre, glen  echo.
this performance features dance and music from the mali empire.
enjoy  cherry blossom season through hands-on activities, art demonstrations and  performances.
rocknocerous happy family hour.
4701 sangamore road, suite n270, bethesda, md 20816.
back to top mar   27   tuesday ringling bros. and barnum & bailey: fully charged.
easter monday fun-day.
noon to 5 p.m. go fly a kite in the peaceful pastures  of the plantation--you can bring your own or buy one on the spot.
watch the thrilling story of aladdin, jamal,  princess jasmine and three comical genies.
american  art museum, washington, d.c..
10 a.m. explore field to stream and everything in between.
back to top apr   13   friday afternoon aviators.
this 30-minute, nonverbal show tells the story of a young girl named pj as she  discovers the possibilities one box can hold.
$$ former regan dance center, landmark mall, alexandria.
1 p.m. help feed the walney animals and make a bird feeder to take home.
see,  hear, sketch: cottontail tales.
learn about  animal sounds and take a night-time stroll along the old oak trail to practice  your new listening skills.
free  family sundays.
author mary clark will be on hand to sign copies of her book, "trusty the  tractor."
spend the afternoon learning about  native wildflowers through a slide show and hike.
environmental film festival in nation's  capital.
the whole  family can come!
oxon hill  branch library, oxon hill.
little sleuths can help thomas  & friends solve a mystery while riding against scenic backdrops, playing  games, enjoying activities and meeting sir topham hatt.
$$ air and space museum udvar-hazy center, chantilly.
11 a.m. to 4 p.m. learn to juggle, write invisible messages and perform  awe-inspiring magic tricks.
egg  hunt & marshmallow harvest.
activity list on website.
$$ blackrock center for the  arts, germantown.
learn an original d.c. dance form in this workshop led  by da'originalz.
1 p.m. join a naturalist to learn about hummingbirds, their favorite  flowers and how you can make a feeder to attract them to your yard.
watch piano prodigy matthew bortnick, 11, as he wows audiences with everything from bach to the beatles. $$ strathmore, north bethesda.
discover how water is an important part of american life and culture, then  express your thoughts through a stained-glass-inspired art project.
2 p.m. celebrate st. patrick's day with irish stories, music and the legend of why there are no snakes in ireland.
hop on down to the  launch zone to explore the pond and the creatures that live there.
collect and release wood frogs that are breeding in vernal pools.
eileen ivers and immigrant soul.
fox family  in spring.
sip on tea with the company of alice in wonderland's mad hatter and friends.
be sure to stop by the hunger games training center.
after your tour, sit by a warming fire and enjoy hot spiced cider.
explore the wonders of nature through  finger plays, stories, activities and outdoor exploration.
back to top mar   20   tuesday digging dinos.
the curator's apprentice.
children are sure to make friends at this program that includes  stories, crafts and hikes.
the peanuts gang leaps off the newspaper page and onto the stage in this musical about friendship.
then, stay warm around a campfire while munching on a  treat.
go for a hike and observe all the things that come along with spring's longer days and warmer temperatures.
boys and girls are invited to attend a free baseball clinic hosted by former mlb players and local high school coaches.
this adapted mozart opera is an hour of elaborate special effects, marionettes and music.
this puppet show, hurrah for  spring!, will help young audiences learn about nature.
welcome back, birds!.
learn how they do it and watch stunning footage.
search for tiny  tree frogs and other amphibians.
multiple  locations, washington, d.c.. kids' korner.
$$ freer and sackler galleries, washington, d.c.. billy fox and the kitsune ensemble.
watch three puppet shows, then listen  to the native american legend of how butterflies came to be.
the museum's observatory is open for  nighttime stargazing.
play moon bounce basketball, enter a hoola hoop contest and enjoy prizes, games and food.
11 a.m. learn about the role snakes play in our ecosystem.
owls, hawks and eagles.
10 a.m. enjoy a story, meet a live animal and make a craft.
performer and storyteller thirza  defoe shares traditional ojibwe and oneida stories through words, songs, music  and dance.
banjos and juggling and art--
young art lovers can hear about the current exhibition at this kid-friendly tour.
young audiences will learn about  nature at this puppet show.
$$ former regan dance center, landmark mall,  alexandria.
11 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. listen to classic folk tales from  other cultures in this program that will have kiddies slithering like a snake,  dancing like a monkey and singing like a bird.
10  a.m. to 6 p.m. all aboard!
search for  tiny tree frogs and other amphibians.
gulf branch nature center, arlington.
kids will stay entertained with a children's station stocked with activities, face painting and more. $$ national mall, washington, d.c..
look for things that are made  from trees, then make a tree craft out of wood.
get outdoors to  discover interesting fruit and vegetable facts, then plant a seed to start your  summer vegetable garden.
$$ air and space museum udvar-hazy  center, chantilly.
boogie babes' bridgette with dawn.
take a peek behind the scenes at the museum.
kids and adults will rock out at this  family-friendly show.
live sharks, rays and more.
2 p.m. create a miniature diorama using images of japanese artist katsushika hokusai's landscape prints.
&nbspages 18 months for 5 years.
kids capital spring fling.
$$ long branch  nature center, arlington.
observe the sky through telescopes, build your own  astrolabe and pocket solar clock and listen to stories.
exhibit, then become an animal architect and create your own  miniature wooden doghouse.
postal museum, washington, d.c.. nana malaya: a song, a story, a dance.
today's theme: animal superstitions.
enlist in the civil war army and use replica wood rifles to learn to  "load in nine times" and march in a unit.
back to top apr   22   sunday assemble a joshua johnson-inspired self portrait.
it's time for your top-secret  spy training!
10 a.m. to 2  p.m. drop in and try out a new hobby: topical stamp collecting.
meadowside  movies by the fire.
tiny tots: old mcdonald's  farm.
national children's museum launch zone, washington, d.c.. tuesday in the park.
native storytelling by thirza  defoe.
reservations suggested.
$$ watkins nature center, upper  marlboro.
preregistration required.
back to top mar   17   saturday 10th annual world dance showcase.
pooh bear's friends' tea party.
preschool songs &  stories.
try your hand at a live-action game while jamming out to a soundtrack by dj mko.
$$ folger shakespeare library,  washington, d.c..
$$ alliance francaise de washington, washington, d.c..
this community health fair features cook and tell  with mccormick & company inc. along with plenty of other health-inspired  activities.
the museum's observatory is open for nighttime stargazing.
this fundraiser will have  plenty of activities for kids, including carnival games, healthy snacks and a  dj.
hop into spring and see your  favorite bunny!
$$ heritage farm museum, sterling.
help celebrate the center's 10th  anniversary with a plant sale, live animal show, face painting, hikes and more.
trolley cartoons and storytime.
$$ workhouse arts center, lorton.
roll up your sleeves!
get tips on being green while strolling through the zoo.
go after sunset to lure in flying  squirrels with peanuts! $$ black hill visitor center, boyds.
&nbspages 18 to 36 months.
7 p.m. join a naturalist to roast marshmallows, listen to stories and watch animal shows.
peter pan club. &nbspages 0 to 5.
2 p.m. join the tradition of making a may basket and fill it with flowers to hang on the front door of friends or neighbors.
bethesda literary festival.
national children's  museum launch zone, washington, d.c..
11 a.m. join in for the annual easter egg hunt.
create a miniature diorama using images of japanese artist katsushika hokusai's landscape prints.
if you're lucky, you may even spot a satellite!
american girl doll tea.
make a japanese fish print on fabric using textile paint and a rubber fish.
1 p.m. learn about the plants and field crops grown on the property today and in the past.
back to top apr 30 monday little acorns.
back to top mar 8 thursday dinorock junkyard pirates.
you'll be captivated  by this magical multimedia world in which a funky princess is awakened--or  not--by true love's kiss.
this performance combines comedy and illusion with original music, and features a cast like none other--a giant dinosaur, hungry anteaters, introverted frogs and tricky penguins.
learn how women burst onto the music  scene in the early days of rock 'n' roll.
$$ little  bennett regional park, clarksburg.
nbspages 3 and older.
nbspages 2 and older.
ages 18 to 35 months.
make a craft, play a game, read a story and learn about the  topic of the day: birds.
back to top apr 16 monday little acorns.
fells point main street, baltimore.
all ages 9:30 and 11 a.m.
$$ publick playhouse, cheverly.
join thousands of volunteers picking up trash from cleanup sites throughout the region.
wild ones: we like to move it,  move it!.
learn  about vernal pools and how frogs rely on them to lay eggs.
7:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. stock up the family library at this used book sale.
$$ riversdale house museum, riverdale park.
back to top mar 23 friday afternoon aviators.
portrait gallery, washington, d.c.. back to top apr   10   tuesday tiny tots.
meet a non-venomous snake.
back to top apr 20 friday afternoon aviators.
the national theatre, washington, d.c.. storytime at the kreeger.
head to the mall for a professional photo with the  easter bunny.
learn to make observations and ask questions about artwork.
pint-sized paleontologists.
rhymed verse puts a spin on this classic fairy tale.
learn how to tell  if a deer or rabbit has visited your garden.
$$ great  country farms, bluemont.
egg hunt & marshmallow harvest.
younger visitors will enjoy hands-on crafts and a photo  booth.
textile museum, washington, d.c.. astronomy night.
sunday nature storytimes.
then, make a fossil  replica to take home.
postal museum, washington, d.c..
brookside gardens, wheaton.
life in a vernal pool. &nbspages 8 and older.
fairmount heights public library, fairmount heights.
family geocaching adventure.
learn about plants, animals and their habitats through songs, crafts and activities.
visit website for details.
10:15 and 11:30 a.m.
reservations suggested: 202-633-4844.
audiences will be wowed by superhuman stunts  ane never-before-seen performances at the greatest show on earth.
$$ meadowside nature  center, rockville.
enchanted cherrybration days.
$$ s. dillon ripley center, washington,  d.c..
school house rock live!.
the national theatre, washington, d.c..
oxon cove park, oxon hill.
help your  child discover nature through nature play, crafts, stories and hikes.
&nbspages 5 and older.
11 a.m., 1 p.m. and 3 p.m.
&nbspages 18 to 35  months.
the whole family is invited to look  at the spring sky and count the number of stars.
join naturalist annie and friends to meet live animals and explore hidden pond park.
learn how to sign, play and speak french from quebec children's author annie groovie.
in this  play for young audiences, sinbad and ittifaq battle a bitter sorceress who has  cast a poison cloud over the city.
night lights campfire.
learn the history behind the park's resident eagles.
learn how beavers are amazing builders and why they're so busy.
$$ port discovery, baltimore.
preschool  storytime.
$$ s. dillon ripley center, washington,  d..c.. st. patrick's day green and growing scavenger hunt.
make and decorate a kite, then let it soar.
see the artwork of young library patrons who participated in the picturing america programs.
this eco-friendly  play uses puppets and stage effects to tell the story of walter the litterbug.
hummingbirds: flying jewels.
learn to sign, speak and play in french with children's author annie  groovie.
strolling musicians, cultural exhibits and historical  imagery will greet guests at this ceremony ... and that's before the ceremony  starts!
$$ national capital trolley museum,  colesville.
build a birdhouse. &nbspages 6 and older.
$$ publick  playhouse, cheverly.
&nbspages 2 and older.
puppets made from recycled materials sail the sea while looking for ways to reduce, reuse and recycle.
10:30  and 11:30 a.m.
11 a.m., 1:30 and 5 p.m. rhymed verse puts a spin on this classic fairy tale.
american  indian museum, washington, d.c..
$$ maydale park, silver spring.
john tartaglia's imaginocean.
&nbspages  6 and older.
$$  sully historic site, chantilly.
tiny tots: panda-monium.
back to top mar   31   saturday 6th annual national walk for epilepsy.
the trains will be up  and running during montgomery county public schools' spring break.
11:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.
$$ national geographic live, washington, d.c.. environmental film festival in nation's capital.
end the program with a trip  outdoors.
visit with the bunny.
kinderkonzert: musical opposites.
as you walk, listen for signs of  animals.
10 a.m. to  3 p.m. celebrate the contributions of women in aviation, space and aerospace!
the audience will chant and  sing as a part of the show.
random  weave birdbath basket.
$$ brookside gardens, wheaton.
get out to the park for a fun-filled puppet show.
ramona's life may be a mess, but with some help and love from her family and friends, she's ready to tackle anything.
learn about  performance techniques, then give it a try!
learn about birds that are returning to the area and make them a welcome home present.
help feed the walney animals and make a bird feeder to take home.
billy fox and the kitsune ensemble.
$$ oxon hill manor, oxon hill.
hop on down to the launch zone to explore the pond and the creatures  that live there.
safari saturday: spring.
national children's museum launch zone, washington, d.c.. puppet show: hurrah for spring.
noon to 3:30 p.m. join a salamander enthusiast to observe huge spotted and marble salamanders.
back to top mar 10 saturday amphibians at maydale.
enlist in the civil war army and use replica wood rifles to learn to "load in nine times" and march in a unit.
$$ hidden oaks nature center, annandale.
bring out the kiddies and all their friends to have an indoor  play party, complete with moonbounces, a huge inflatable slide and a wacky  world playland.
create your own bookmark and fan using feathers, beads, construction paper and fabric.
today's theme:  lizard or salamander? $$ hidden pond nature center, springfield.
experience the wonders of nature through finger plays, stories, activities and  outdoor exploration.
postal museum,  washington, d.c..
&nbspages  4 and older.
head to the mall for a professional photo with the easter bunny.
ages 2 to 10. 2 to 3 p.m. enjoy a nature-themed puppet show and meet a live animal.
bring your own basket.
10:30 a.m. to 2:30  p.m. put on your hard hat and get to work!
environmental film fest: an animated retrospective.
1:30 and 4 p.m. follow the story of a japanese bamboo cutter as he makes a discovery inside a stalk of bamboo.
american indian museum, washington, d.c..
celebrate st. patrick's day with discovery theater. $$ s. dillon ripley center, washington, d..
explore the beauty of spring flowers and  trees as you look at colors, shapes and leaves.
just a dream: the green play.
author mary clark will be on hand to sign copies of her book, "trusty the tractor."
$$ strathmore mansion, north  bethesda.
explore "what's underneath"  the water at this nature program.
you'll even see some first-hand!
learn all about lightning bugs through stories and a craft.
at the end of the show, children learn a magic trick.
stop by the museum this spring  break for cartoons and story time.
make a craft, play a game, read a story and learn about the topic of the day: birds.
meet a live creature from the story.
reston town center, reston.
help celebrate the center's 10th anniversary with a plant sale, live animal show, face painting, hikes and more.
this non-disney version of rapunzel teaches children what exactly a "rapunzel" is, a lesson in open-mindedness and all about rhyming.
this 30-minute, nonverbal show tells the story of a young girl  named pj as she discovers the possibilities one box can hold. $$ former regan  dance center, landmark mall, alexandria.
$$  ellanor c. lawrence park, chantilly.
get tips on  being green while strolling through the zoo.
anacostia community museum, washington, d.c..
ringling bros. and barnum & bailey: fully  charged. &nbspall ages.
$$  long branch nature center, arlington.
help your child discover  nature through nature play, crafts, stories and hikes.
hunt for treat-filled eggs in the park, then visit  the animals.
kids and  adults will rock out at this family-friendly show.
make a craft and enjoy a night hike.
family day: explore the universe.
head to  the sears court of the mall for a family-friendly concert at the mall!
the farm is decked out in pink pizzazz!
back to top mar 28 wednesday digging dinos.
end the night with marshmallows around a campfire.
investigate: helen frankenthaler.
this month's theme: shakespeare.
$$ arts/harmony hall regional center, fort washington.
this show is sure to create a lifelong love  of theater.
then, make a craft to take home.
3:30 p.m. take advantage of march's blustery winds by making, decorating, then flying a kite at the farm park.
listen to  stories about raptors, meet meadowside's resident raptors and make a craft.
1 p.m. learn why plants are important, then go for a hike to see what's growing aroudn the nature center.
$$ the  mall at prince george's, hyattsville.
create a miniature diorama using images of japanese artist katsushika hokusai's  landscape prints.
ringling bros. and barnum &  bailey: fully charged.
author mary clark will be on hand to sign copies of  her book, "trusty the tractor."
$$ s. dillon ripley center, washington,  d..c.. salamander stories.
11 a.m. to 4 p.m. celebrate the earth as you learn how to grow your own garden, decorate garden accessories and more.
back to top apr 9 monday campfire.
tour the sidney harman hall stage, then get to work and build your own mini stage set.
parental supervision required.
bob brown's puppets: bunny business.
bull  run regional park, arlington.
$$ prince george's sports & learning complex, landover.
sip on tea with the company of  alice in wonderland's mad hatter and friends.
national zoo, washington, d.c..
brookside  gardens, wheaton.
american art museum, washington, d.c.. kennedy krieger's bike ride & family fun festival.
a walk through time at walney.
annie groovie: wee speak french.
search for tiny tree frogs and other amphibians.
explore the beauty of spring flowers and trees as you look at colors, shapes and leaves.
$$ montpelier  mansion, laurel.
audiences will be wowed by superhuman stunts ane never-before-seen performances at the greatest show on earth.
&nbspages 1  and older.
learn about butterflies through an outdoor activity and craft.
$$ montgomery college cultural arts center, silver  spring.
get your groove on to live jazz  music, visit an interactive family concert and participate in an instrument  "petting zoo."
sing, dance and listen to stories at this cultural program.
this puppet show is perfect for young  patrons: the shows are shorter, the lights stay on low and the door remains  open.
boys and girls are invited to attend a free baseball clinic  hosted by former mlb players and local high school coaches.
when you're done, enjoy crafts, games, pony rides, a moon bounce and train rides.
bowie baysox family funfest. &nbspall ages.
11:30 a.m., 3:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.
7:30 to 9:15 p.m. take a tour of the night  sky.
celebrate earth day with junk music.
kids will make instruments  from recycled materials and play them in a parade.
watch as five silly siblings, who just happen to be monkeys, do things their own way and mayhem ensues.
explore african culture  through storytelling, songs, music and dance.
keep those elbows off the table as  you enjoy a fine tea and finger sandwiches fit for a queen.
learn about climate change.
washington international school,  washington, d.c..
little sleuths can help thomas & friends solve a mystery while riding against scenic backdrops, playing games, enjoying activities and meeting sir topham hatt.
hands-on history day.
letter  writing social. &nbspall ages.
let your curiosity drive you on this  nature walk.
this jazz quartet will get kids tapping their toes and snapping their  fingers.
create a layered miniature diorama using images of japanese artist  katsushika hokusai's prints as inspiration.
multiple locations, washington, d.c.. kite flying time.
audience members work with the virginia virtuosi rescue squad in this interactive musical performance.
environmental film festival in  nation's capital.
see border collie sheep herding demonstrations at 1 p.m. $$ clark's elioak  farm, ellicott city.
national children's museum launch zone,  national harbor.
children will use their imagination to explore paintings, culture and architecture.
storytime at the  kreeger.
ringling bros. and barnum & bailey: fully charged. &nbspall  ages.
spend a day at the national  gallery looking at art, experimenting with studio materials and meeting other  teens!
ethan bortnick and his musical time machine.
this children's rock-and-roll group will let kids get in on the  music-making at this interactive show.
unbuilt lego washington.
enjoy hands on activities and crafts that explore what's underneath the water.
the  puppet co. brings this classic to life, telling the story of pinocchio's quest  to become a real boy. $$ the puppet co., glen echo.
culturally different adventures.
dress for the weather.
celebrate national robotics week by heading to the great hall to see some in action.
science-fiction fun!.
$$ hyattstown mill parking area, little bennet regional park, hyattstown.
freer and sackler galleries, washington, d.c.. beneath ancient seas: digging dinosaurs.
opening weekend on the farm.
this fast-paced program showcases the kennedy string quartet as they show off musical contrasts that work together--fast with slow, soft with loud and more. $$ kennedy center, washington, d.c..
parade from virginia ave.
many screenings are free.
louie  as they enjoy music, carnival games and other attractions.
learn about the ultimate stealth sprinter: the  ninja.
healthy first saturday.
head outside for some evening stargazing.
$$ long branch nature  center, arlington.
make a quilted potholder, clothespin doll  or needlework design while learning about women's roles in early america.
take a photo with princess cherrybella and  compete in a pink treasure hunt.
show features tchaikokvsky, dragonetti and others.
as you hike, keep your ears open for peepers and owls and your eyes open for foxes and coyotes.
$$ strathmore, north bethesda.
11 a.m. to 6 p.m. this free festival will include live "battles," dockside ship tours, food and craft vendors and plenty of children's activities and entertainment.
learn about the sounds and habits of foxes, along with how to distinguish a fox from a coyote at 50 yards.
you'll follow three fishy friends as they  follow clues on a treasure map.
ages 4 to 10. 10 and 11:30 a.m.
when you're done, enjoy crafts, games, pony rides, a moon bounce  and train rides.
10 a.m. black hill is home to our national bird!
learn about the wildlife in our region.
head to the mall  for a professional photo with the easter bunny.
cartoon ice skating.  all ages.
american indian museum, washington, d.c.. performance by hoop  dancer thirza defoe.
$$ national capital trolley museum, colesville.
this inspiring song and dance performance aims  to empower african children.
you can even make a robot prototype to take home.
younger visitors will enjoy hands-on crafts and a photo booth.
explore vernal pools, which are filled with frog eggs and salamanders.
you'll be captivated by this magical multimedia world in which a funky princess is awakened--or not--by true love's kiss.
keep those elbows off the table as you enjoy a fine tea and finger sandwiches fit for a queen.
today's theme is  amphibians.
the farm is decked out in pink  pizzazz!
underground railroad night hike trail.
&nbspages 4 and  older.
gather around the campfire for  stories and snacks.
back to top apr   19   thursday just a dream: the green play.
$$ cabin john and wheaton regional parks, montgomery  county.
2 p.m. join a naturalist to learn about plant identification skills and how to plant a garden.
today's free family sunday includes a hands-on craft.
bright star  theatre:
strathmore mansion, north bethesda.
usa science & engineering festival.
hoot like an owl and flutter like a moth as you learn about the creatures in  our night skies.
travel across the country to  discover some of america's greatest art treasures.
walk with a naturalist.
decorate it and take it home for your  neighborhood's birds to enjoy.
$$ adventure theatre, glen echo.
back to top apr 22 sunday assemble a joshua johnson-inspired self portrait.
learn about bald eagles and then visit a few perches in hopes of a sighting.
they'll also find out whether goats really will eat anything, including tin cans!
air and space museum udvar-hazy center, chantilly.
this puppet  show is perfect for young patrons: the shows are shorter, the lights stay on  low and the door remains open.
7:30 p.m. learn the history behind earth day and how you can become more  earth-friendly.
3 p.m. take a family-friendly trip to outerspace with these two short  musicals: star corps iv: the search for mind zap and oh my, an invasion! $$  gunston arts center, arlington.
circus fun with clifford.
back to top apr 17 tuesday discovery hike.
11 a.m. to  12:15 p.m. learn about the fabrics, patterns and styles of american clothing  circa 1812.
join naturalist annie and friends to meet live animals and explore  hidden pond park.
10 a.m. to 2 p.m. drop in and try out a new hobby: topical stamp collecting.
&nbspages 0 to 12 months with caretaker.
the perfect show for younger  theatre patrons: the shows are shorter, the lights stay on low and the door  remains open.
a moonbounce will be open all day, pets on wheels will be around from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. and the kindersinger will be jamming at 1 p.m. $$ port discovery, baltimore.
happy birthday, dr. seuss!.
travel across the country to discover some of america's  greatest art treasures.
the trains will be up and running during montgomery county public  schools' spring break.
10 a.m. listen to a seasonal story, then make a craft.
help rid the park of the invasive garlic mustard plant.
expo advertisements » download the 2012 washington parent coloring  calendar  calendar march su m tu w th f sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 mar   6   tuesday book of the month: riki's birdhouse.
back to top mar   23   friday afternoon aviators.
$$ hidden  pond nature center, springfield.
you'll be splashing around to discover the science behind  water.
$$ hidden pond  nature center, springfield.
end the program with a trip outdoors.
spring has sprung  hike.
interact one-on-one with your child while discovering the  wonders of nature.
learn about vernal pools and how frogs  rely on them to lay eggs.
gadgets, gizmos and  gee whiz!.
$$  brookside nature center, wheaton.
$$  jammin' java, vienna.
then, head to the classroom for instruction in anime and manga drawing.
$$ kennedy center, washington, d.c.. sunday
join naturalists on a one-hour hike to explore the woodlands.
you can even  make a robot prototype to take home.
this environmental film festival, now in  its 20th year, will screen 34 animated, documentary, imax and feature films for  children and family across the city.
this eco-friendly play uses puppets and magical stage effects to bring the story of walter the litterbug to life.
this campfire includes stories, special  animal guests, games, songs and s'mores.
multiple  locations, washington, d.c..
learn about the people who find, save and create homes for animals who come from all over the world.
it's  a bird reunion!
it's a day of raptor-filled fun.
back to top apr   17   tuesday discovery hike.
head to the  mall for a professional photo with the easter bunny.
frying pan farm park, herndon.
spring festival and native plant sale.
run, walk or  bike to help break the silence surrounding autism.
11 a.m., noon, 12:45 p.m., 1:30 p.m.
7:30 to 9:15 p.m. take a tour of the night sky.
climb aboard for a wildflower scavenger hunt.
$$ brookside gardens auditorium, wheaton.
the peanuts  gang leaps off the newspaper page and onto the stage in this musical about  friendship.
early morning birdwalk.
join  thousands of volunteers picking up trash from cleanup sites throughout the  region.
2 to 5 p.m. visit the print by print exhibit, and make your own prints!
the textile museum, washington, d.c..
the national theatre, washington, d.c.. canine capers.
this  environmental film festival, now in its 20th year, will screen 34 animated,  documentary, imax and feature films for children and family across the city.
spend the afternoon hunting for  eggs hidden on the grounds of the manor, then play games and enjoy activities.
bring  your own basket.
meet a non-venomous  snake.
celebrate the  gift of cherry trees with hands-on activities, such as artful origami.
little ones  will love these gardening activities, stories, crafts and walks.
this timed 5k will benefit the  health and wellness programs at the connelly school of the holy child, as well  as the cabin john park volunteer fire department.
$$ the kreeger museum, washington, d.c..
stock up the family library at this used book sale.
check out some of the specimens collected at brookside over  the past 50 years.
tot rock: jammin at the  smithsonian.
spend the  night around the campfire enjoying roasted marshmallows, activities and the  film, "frog and toad are friends."
baltimore museum of art,  baltimore.
bring your guppy to the aquarium to learn all about the aquatic world.
you may even get to meet an animal up close! $$ riverbend park, great falls.
soldiers  carried with them and how they occupied their time.
talk about the  different types of artillery used during the civil war.
explore "what's underneath" the  water at this nature program.
10 a.m. to 3 p.m. greet the new baby sheep, goats and cows at the park.
folger shakespeare library, washington, d.c..
learn about the canines who lived in our area long ago and why they act the way they do.
earth day  party for the planet.
10:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m.
learn how and why forts  were build in arlington in the civil war.
who dwells in seashells?.
hop into  spring and see your favorite bunny!
back to top mar 29 thursday pee wee explorers.
try to slither like a snake and  flap as fast as a hummingbird.
1 p.m. find  out how temporary wetlands provide a breeding habitat for frogs, salamanders  and other amphibians.
4 to 6 p.m. discover how water is an important part of american life and culture, then express your thoughts through a stained-glass-inspired art project.
earth day celebration.
gadgets, gizmos and gee whiz!.
back to top mar 31 saturday 6th annual national walk for epilepsy.
washington international school, washington, d.c..
10 a.m. enjoy a story, meet a live animal and make  a craft.
young audiences will learn about nature at this puppet show.
make memories with grandchildren by participating in this nature program.
this puppet show is perfect for young patrons: the shows are shorter, the lights stay on low and the door remains open.
take a  photo with princess cherrybella and compete in a pink treasure hunt.
go green: shamrocks and snakes.
build a small bird bath out of a flower pot.
3:30 p.m. listen to a story about plants and animals, then head outside for a short walk to enjoy nature.
$$ the  kreeger museum, washington, d.c..
$$ s. dillon ripley center, washington,  d.c.. mommy & me (and daddy, too!).
caretaker and child can enjoy lunch specials, story time, arts and crafts, sing-a-longs, prizes and more.
spend your saturday learning about science, engineering and math through hands-on activities and demonstrations.
imago theatre: zoozoo.
persian new year celebration.
nature tots: fur and feathers.
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. all aboard!
find out how robots are exploring everywhere from outer space to the depths of the oceans.
back to top apr 15 sunday anime artists encounter arhats.
learn about vernal pools and how frogs rely on them to lay eggs.
stop by for a story and  themed craft.
c.. st. patrick's day tea.
little ones will learn about science, technology, engineering and math through  hands-on activities and demonstrations.
1:30 and 4 p.m. follow the story of a japanese  bamboo cutter as he makes a discovery inside a stalk of bamboo.
1 to 3 p.m. hunt for eggs, play  games and more.
6 p.m. learn about the sounds and habits of foxes, along with how to distinguish a fox from a coyote at 50 yards.
$$ black hill visitor center,  boyds.
explore the exciting world of tiny technology at this program that is  part of a nationwide festival dedicated to nanoscience.
learn to identify local rocks and minerals, then visit a stream to start your own rock collection.
go on an outdoor egg hunt and visit dinoland in nature playce.
buy a bucket of enriched ore and use a water flume to discover gems.
$$ croydon creek nature  center, rockville.
$$ s. dillon ripley  center, washington, d.c.. wood frogs!.
walter e. washington convention center, washington, d.c.. wagon ride.
westfield montgomery mall, bethesda. wildlife wednesday.
back to top apr   2   monday collection connection.
$$ national zoo,  washington, d.c..
the perfect introduction to opera for children!
just a dream: the  green play.
$$ meadowside nature  center, bethesda.
learn about bees and other pollinators at  this program.
10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. d.c. is in bloom, and you can celebrate by designing and collecting stamps.
nature tots: turtles.
learn about butterflies  through an outdoor activity and craft.
miniature trains  open!.
p.nokio: a hip hop musical.
you'll be captivated by this magical multimedia world in which a funky princess  is awakened--or not--by true love's kiss.
$$ corcoran gallery of art, washington, d.c.. spring festival and native plant sale.
this  performance features dance and music from the mali empire.
be sure to wear waterproof shoes!
hike for a mile or two while searching for vernal pools full of  salamanders and frog eggs.
learn about animal homes as you listen to the story of riki, who can't wait to build a birdhouse in the spring.
7 p.m. learn to identify frogs and toads by their calls as you explore pools and ponds.
out with thomas mystery on the rails tour.
celebrate st. patrick's day with discovery  theater. $$ s. dillon ripley center, washington, d..c.. st. patrick's day  tea.
introducing bkids at bloomingdale's chevy chase.
back to top apr   30   monday little acorns.
ring in the start of  baseball season with this minor league home opener.
the perfect show for younger theatre  patrons: the shows are shorter, the lights stay on low and the door remains  open.
1 p.m. enjoy a kid-friendly menu, story time and children's music at this tea time.
ringling bros. barnum & bailey animal walk parade.
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. families will learn about the science behind  hollywood's crime dramas, medical shows and special effects at this festival.
$$ hidden pond nature  center, springfield.
by  planting native trees and shrubs on public lands, mulching and repairing park  trails and recycling household materials.
back to top mar   19   monday environmental film festival in nation's capital.
d.c. is in bloom, and you can celebrate by designing and collecting stamps.
the  key school, annapolis.
back to top mar 18 sunday 48th annual gem, mineral & fossil show.
american art museum, washington, d.c.. kennedy krieger's  bike ride & family fun festival.
postal museum, washington, d.c.. maryland day open house.
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. this book festival features children's activities, live  music and book sales.
baltimore museum of art, baltimore.
the puppet co. brings this classic to life, telling the story of pinocchio's  quest to become a real boy.
hunt for eggs, enjoy crafts, play games and more.
caretaker and child can enjoy lunch specials, story time, arts and  crafts, sing-a-longs, prizes and more.
discover how a violin and trombone can go together in perfect harmony!
&nbspages 10 and older.
today's theme: lizard or salamander? $$ hidden pond nature center, springfield.
national children's museum launch zone, washington, d.c.. cheese tasting.
celebrate spring with balloon animals, face painting, a moonbounce, beanbag toss, international food stalls and a book sale.
listen to a story  about plants and animals.
little acorns..  ages 2 to 4.
children will use their imagination to explore paintings, culture and  architecture.
enjoy the sounds of springtime night by imitating frogs, toads and other creatures around the campfire.
back to top apr   16   monday little acorns.
$$ black hill visitor center, boyds.
freer and sackler galleries, washington, d.c..
pint-sized  paleontologists.
$$ s. dillon ripley center, washington, d.c..
back to top mar   12   monday flower buds.
&nbspages 8 and older.
$$ american indian museum, washington, d.c..
$$ cosca regional park, clinton.
children's cherry blossom celebration.
natural history museum, washington, d.c.. sinbad, the untold tale. &nbspall ages.
greet the new baby sheep, goats and cows at the park.
bring out the kiddies and all their friends to have an indoor play party, complete with moonbounces, a huge inflatable slide and a wacky world playland.
learn about building through stories, games, art and movement.
prices range from 50 cents to $3. $$ gesher jewish day school,  fairfax.
shakespeare in action.
$$ lake anne merchants, reston.
you'll learn about freshwater, seawater and land-dwelling intertebrates.
get outdoors to discover interesting fruit and vegetable facts, then  plant a seed to start your summer vegetable garden.
walk through the galleries and follow the artists' clues in search of spring.
back to top apr   25   wednesday a history of bald eagles.
head to the mall for free themed crafts, activities,  snacks, entertainment and more.
7:30 p.m. learn to identify frogs and toads by  their calls as you explore pools and ponds.
artisphere, arlington.
$$ african art museum,  washington, d.c.. back to top apr   29   sunday before dawn.
learn to identify local rocks and minerals,  then visit a stream to start your own rock collection.
travel across the country to discover  some of america's greatest art treasures.
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. enjoy workshops, demonstrations, a  kids mini-mine, vendors and more at this program.
$$ little bennett regional park, clarksburg.
watch the thrilling story of aladdin, jamal, princess jasmine  and three comical genies.
bring your guppy to the aquarium to learn all  about the aquatic world.
learn how to curate your own exhibit and to  create a reproduction of a piece in the collection.
just a dream:  the green play.
create a birdbath basket for your garden using random weaving techniques.
meet a live barred owl and learn to recognize their call.
create your own printing block using styrofoam, then recreate print landcapes that convey early dawn.
children will use their  imagination to explore paintings, culture and architecture.
sing and dance through the show, then stick around for a workshop where you can play with kukerica.
explore sights, sounds, textures and  movements at this program.
$$ hidden oaks nature  center, annandale.
&nbspages 7 and older.
meet amateur field paleontologists, who describe their excavations.
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. families will learn about the  science behind hollywood's crime dramas, medical shows and special effects at  this festival.
&nbspages 5 and  older.
free family  sundays.
ramona's life may be a mess, but with  some help and love from her family and friends, she's ready to tackle anything.
anacostia community  museum, washington, d.c..
10  a.m. to 3:30 p.m. d.c. is in bloom, and you can celebrate by designing and  collecting stamps.
touch brushes, palettes,  bison hides and bottle caps to learn about materials used to make art.
join naturalist annie and friends to meet live animals and explore hidden pond  park.
10 a.m. explore field to stream and everything  in between.
11 a.m. to 5 p.m. celebrate nowruz, the persian new year, with music, dances, costumed characters and a persian bazaar.
learn how to  id trees by their bark.
3  p.m. university of maryland's gamer symphony orchestra plays arrangements of  video game music.
check website for exact  dates and times.
learn about performance techniques, then give it a try!
meet resident raptors, including otis the owl, then take part in raptor-themed  activities and crafts.
folger shakespeare library,  washington, d.c..
visit a few of their favorite perches in hope of a sighting.
1 p.m. learn why plants are  important, then go for a hike to see what's growing aroudn the nature center.
$$ croydon creek  nature center, rockville.
performer and storyteller thirza defoe shares traditional ojibwe and oneida stories through words, songs, music and dance.
listen to a story about plants and animals, then head outside for  a short walk to enjoy nature.
interact one-on-one with your child while discovering the wonders of  nature.
the trains will be up and running during montgomery county  public schools' spring break.
american art museum, washington, d.c..
learn the meaning of your name and how to  create a family tree.
watch as celtic dancers, floats,  bagpipers, horses and more make their way down the avenue.
this  month's theme: shakespeare.
multiple locations, washington, d.c..
audiences will be  wowed by superhuman stunts ane never-before-seen performances at the greatest  show on earth.
american art museum, washington, d.c.. bone tales.
stop by to learn about reptiles and amphibians.
$$ imagination stage, bethesda. stem in  spring.
air and space museum, washington, d.c..
tour the strathmore  unleashed!
meadowside movies by the fire.
saturday story  & hike.
wednesday just a dream: the green play.
multiple locations, washington, d.c.. kids' korner.  ages 3 to 6.
$$ frying pan farm park, herndon.
birding basics for families.
gamer symphony orchestra.
you can earn student  learning hours for helping!
back to top mar 19 monday environmental film festival in nation's capital.
bookmarks and fans. &nbspall ages.
today's theme: radical raptors.
the early bird gets the worm, so get up early to look for migrating and familiar birds.
bring your american girl doll for an afternoon of tea and history.
learn to work as a team to load and aim a civil war cannon.
earth day 2012: learn about climate change.
explore sights, sounds, textures and movements at this program.
spend your spring break learning to play with activities centered around science, technology, engineering and math.
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. this book festival features children's activities, live music and book sales.
travel around the world's oceans  through this black-light puppet show.
back to top mar 30 friday afternoon aviators.
kids will stay entertained with a children's station stocked with  activities, face painting and more. $$ national mall, washington, d.c..
this children's rock-and-roll group will let kids get in on the music-making at this interactive show.
easter eggstravaganza.
11 a.m. and 1 p.m. hunt around the lodge for colorful eggs.
this environmental film  festival, now in its 20th year, will screen 34 animated, documentary, imax and  feature films for children and family across the city.
stop by the center for stories, music, science activities and tons of hands-on fun.
watch the  thrilling story of aladdin, jamal, princess jasmine and three comical genies.
justin roberts and not ready for naptime players. &nbspall ages.
egg hunt  & marshmallow harvest.
head to  the mall for a professional photo with the easter bunny.
explore brookside's nature collection, make a craft, play a  game and read a story.
the puppet co. brings this classic to life, telling  the story of pinocchio's quest to become a real boy. $$ the puppet co., glen  echo.
children's historic home tour.
it's spring, and frogs and salamanders are laying jelly-like, slimy eggs.
with fabric strips and a cardboard loom, learn the basic plain weave structure while creating a placemat.
this puppet show, caterpillars and polliwogs, will help young audiences learn about nature.
learn about the role snakes play in our ecosystem.
&nbspages 4  and older.
11 a.m., 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. put  your best foot forward and learn 18th-century country dancing.
join artist tamara thomas to design, build and decorate an easter-themed craft.
day out with thomas mystery on the rails tour.
home  articles directories family fun parents only new & notable calendar camp
$$ brookside nature center, wheaton.
listen to a story about a possum who wonders who's making that peep, peep, peep!
children are sure to make  friends at this program that includes stories, crafts and hikes.
back to top apr 5 thursday animals from eggs.
well known in the  indie family music scene, justin and co. will play songs from the family music  cd, jungle gym. $$ jammin' java, vienna.
family geocaching  adventure.
get outdoors to discover interesting fruit and  vegetable facts, then plant a seed to start your summer vegetable garden.
american art  museum, washington, d.c..
prices range from 50 cents to $3. $$ gesher jewish day  school, fairfax.
dulles town  center, dulles.
bring a basket and hunt for the golden  egg!
$$ spy museum, washington, d.c.. kite festival.
10 a.m. to 3 p.m. little ones will learn about science, technology, engineering and math through hands-on activities and demonstrations.
children's cherry  blossom celebration.
learn about birds that are returning to the area and make them  a welcome home present.
11 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
spend your spring break learning about the importance of the cabin john watershed.
learn an original d.c. dance form in this workshop led by da'originalz.
walter e.  washington convention center, washington, d.c.. wagon ride.
ages 24 to 42 months.
children are sure to make friends at  this program that includes stories, crafts and hikes.
spend your spring break  learning to play with activities centered around science, technology,  engineering and math.
american indian museum, washington, d.c.. performance by hoop dancer thirza defoe.
this timed 5k will benefit the health and wellness programs at the connelly school of the holy child, as well as the cabin john park volunteer fire department.
back to top apr   21   saturday an evening with flying squirrels.
american art museum, washington, d.c.. banjos and juggling and art--
registrations required.
check website for  exact dates and times.
2 p.m. learn about rocks and minerals, then turn out the lights and  watch as fluorescent rocks glow.
riverdale park  field, riverdale.
create your own printing  block using styrofoam, then recreate print landcapes that convey early dawn.
sounds of  the night campfire.
wild things puppet show.
take a walk to see vernal pools filled with amphibians' eggs.
rocknoceros in concert.
$$  air and space museum udvar-hazy center, chantilly.
spend your spring break learning to play with activities  centered around science, technology, engineering and math.
$$ shop at farthing's ordinary, st. mary's city.
$$ first mariner arena, baltimore.
head to the mall for free themed crafts, activities, snacks, entertainment and more.
8 p.m. celebrate st. patrick's day with "the jimi hendrix of the  violin" and her band.
be a wood  turner's apprentice for the day, and learn how to sand, polish and weave  chairs.
this workshop  breaks down frida kahlo's creativity and surrealism into terms kids can  understand.
portrait story days: duke ellington.
barred owl: stream valley hunter.
activities include crafts, science experiments and  tours.
back to top mar   24   saturday a history of black hill's bald eagles.
noon to 3 p.m. learn all about the history of the postal system,  including how machines read your handwriting and engineers solve sorting  problems.
back to top apr   11   wednesday kids korner: spring.
this  30-minute, nonverbal show tells the story of a young girl named pj as she  discovers the possibilities one box can hold.
washington nationals and mncppc baseball clinic.
11 a.m. to 1 p.m. capital city mamas  is helping to welcome bkids, a new children's department, to bloomingdale's.
make a map of your town and a compass to help you find your way.
$$ kennedy  center, washington, d.c..
sunday nature storytime.
walter e. washington convention center, washington, d.c.. weave a  basket. &nbspages 12 and up.
back to top apr   28   saturday arts for families.
discover why they choose to call the atlantic ocean home.
gustafer yellowgold in concert.
explore field to stream and everything in between.
the perfect show for younger theatre patrons: the shows are  shorter, the lights stay on low and the door remains open.
put on your walking shoes for this interpretive night hike of the underground railroad experience.
11 a.m. enjoy music, rhymes,  books and more to discover the world around you.
back to top mar   9   friday afternoon aviators.
explore brookside's nature collection, make a craft, play a game and read a story.
10 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
$$ sequoyah elementary school, derwood.
the curator's  apprentice.
multiple locations, washington, d.c.. kids' korner.
saturday story & hike.
7 p.m. join a naturalist to  roast marshmallows, listen to stories and watch animal shows.
see, hear, sketch: cottontail tales.
back to top apr 2 monday collection connection.
$$ s. dillon ripley center, washington, d.c.. mommy & me (and daddy, too!).
11:30 a.m., 3:30 p.m. and  7:30 p.m.
tatebanko:  japanese paper dioramas.
&nbspages 4 and older.
make a quilted potholder, clothespin doll or needlework design while learning about women's roles in early america.
learn about animal homes as you listen to the story of riki, who  can't wait to build a birdhouse in the spring.
the perfect show for younger theatre patrons: the shows are shorter, the lights  stay on low and the door remains open.
ringling bros. and barnum & bailey:  fully charged. &nbspall ages.
$$ watkins nature center, upper marlboro.
discover how a violin and  trombone can go together in perfect harmony!
hyattsville branch library, hyattsville.
today's theme: dirt and worms.
see four snakes, four turtles and other reptiles, and then watch a staff member feed them.
the early bird gets the worm, so get up  early to look for migrating and familiar birds.
possum and the peeper.
audiences will be wowed by superhuman stunts and never-before-seen performances at the greatest show on earth.
8  p.m. take a family-friendly trip to outerspace with these two short musicals:  star corps iv: the search for mind zap and oh my, an invasion! $$ gunston arts  center, arlington.
tour the strathmore unleashed!
$$ black  hill visitor center, boyds.
the peanuts gang leaps off the newspaper page and onto the stage in this  musical about friendship.
2 to 4 p.m. join in for aviation-themed activities every friday afternoon.
princess sunni's birthday dress rehearsal.
the peanuts gang leaps off the newspaper page and onto the stage in  this musical about friendship.
campfire: signs of spring night hike.
7:30 p.m. learn to identify frogs and toads by their calls as you explore pools and ponds.
see the artwork of  young library patrons who participated in the picturing america programs.
enjoy hands on activities and crafts that  explore what's underneath the water.
1 p.m. from high in the sky to deep in the ocean, national geographic's team is capturing amazing images of our world.
world-renowned hoop dancer thirza defoe weaves 24 hoops into designs of  flowers, eagles and butterflies, then invites the audience to join in.
11 a.m. to 4 p.m. learn to juggle, write invisible messages and perform awe-inspiring magic tricks.
3:30 p.m. take advantage of  march's blustery winds by making, decorating, then flying a kite at the farm  park.
children and their guardians can enjoy creative music and stories.
11 a.m. join a naturalist at the playground to explore the outdoors.
when you're done, take a hike to look for signs of spring.
national cherry blossom festival family day.
11 a.m. and 3 p.m. watch the thrilling story of aladdin, jamal, princess jasmine and three comical genies.
strolling musicians, cultural exhibits and historical imagery will greet guests at this ceremony ... and that's before the ceremony starts!
thirza dafoe re-creates the pioneering spirit of first nations explorer  sacagawea.
civil  war discovery.
$$ kenmore middle  school, arlington.
$$  the puppet co., glen echo.
multiple locations, washington, d.c.. geology in your neighborhood.
$$ cabin john and wheaton regional parks, montgomery county.
national children's museum launch zone, national  harbor.
$$ s. dillon ripley center, washington, d..c.. rocknoceros in concert.
learn about the canines who  lived in our area long ago and why they act the way they do.
$$ maryland science center,  baltimore.
10:30 a.m., 12:30 p.m. and 2 p.m.
celebrate the farm's 10th birthday with a weekend of pony rides, petting zoos, hayrides and more.
in honor of the national cherry blossom festival, listen to this improvisational chamber group that explores japanese folklore.
10 a.m. discover the wonders of nature through songs, crafts, finger plays and mini-hikes.
clifford's big 50th birthday celebration. &nbspall  ages.
2 p.m. enjoy honey, tea and cookies in a pooh-style tea party.
watch a short film  "make way for ducklings," then take a walk around the pond, make a  craft and enjoy s'mores.
$$  frying pan farm park, herndon.
learn how animals use trickery to  get a meal or keep from being a meal.
1 p.m. set up camp, learn about the items
$$ maryland  science center, baltimore.
today's theme: bird  nests.
today's theme is baby animals.
then, using lincoln logs and dirt,  build a replica fort.
fun family saturdays: family tree.
2 p.m. learn all about fossils, how they're formed and where you can find them.
cabin john playground, rockville.
$$ little seneca lake, boyds.
thirza dafoe re-creates the pioneering spirit of first nations explorer sacagawea.
expo advertisements » download the 2012 washington parent coloring calendar calendar march su m tu w th f sa 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 mar 6 tuesday book of the month: riki's birdhouse.
spend the night around the campfire enjoying roasted marshmallows, activities and the film, "frog and toad are friends."
drink specials include buy a beer, get a juice box. $$ jammin' java, vienna.
9:30 and 11 a.m.  listen to fairytales and historical tales as told by the always entertaining  lynn ruehlmann.
back to top apr 26 thursday amphibian campfire.
this interactive musical adventure lets kids "rescue" elephants, kangaroos and even bumble bees.
celebrate the gift of cherry trees with hands-on activities, such as  artful origami.
$$ olney theatre center, olney.
world-renowned hoop dancer thirza defoe weaves 24 hoops into designs of flowers, eagles and butterflies, then invites the audience to join in.
stroll among buildings dating back to  the 1700s.
learn about the  people who find, save and create homes for animals who come from all over the  world.
portrayed in  shadow puppetry.
1 and 3 p.m. use a manga-style activity book to explore the exhibit, masters of mercy: buddha's amazing disciples.
gulf branch nature center,  arlington.
cabin john creek days.
science and engineering festival satellite program.
$$ peppermill community center, landover.
new carrollton branch library, new carrollton.
10 a.m. listen to a seasonal story, then make a  craft.
9 a.m. ranger steph will excite children with the story of the three billy goats gruff.
this  emmy award-winning production teaches grammar, history, math and science  through catchy tunes.
learn about nature through meeting live animals, exploring outdoors and participating in activities.
12th annual st. patrick's day parade.
find your way at the launch zone.
frying pan farm  park, herndon.
american  indian museum, washington, d.c.. preschool songs and stories.
back to top apr 6 friday afternoon aviators.
learn about shells and the animals that live in them.
$$ national  building museum, washington, d.c..
sing, dance and listen to stories at this  cultural program.
after their launch party, stick around for sweets, treats and face painting.
washingtonian center, gaithersburg.
dance, sing, wiggle and giggle in this interactive program.
$$ gulf branch nature center, arlington.
7:30 p.m. learn to recognize the calls of local owls.
royal  mail ship titanic centennial.
10:30 and 11:30 a.m.
celebrate earth day and earn a special badge by completing  activities in the junior ranger book.
back to top apr   24   tuesday squish, squash, squirt: mud!.
1 p.m. everyone participates in this percussion performance played on 100 percent recycled materials.
brookside nature center, wheaton.
nature tots: flowers.
this non-disney version of rapunzel teaches children what exactly a  "rapunzel" is, a lesson in open-mindedness and all about rhyming.
be sure to try your hand using  colonial era farming tools.
10:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m.
10:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.
walter e. washington convention center, washington, d.c.. environmental film festival in nation's capital.
$$ green spring gardens park, alexandria.
see the tale of 16-year-old rapunzel, who escapes the clutches of a  wicked witch--and her tower--and embarks on an adventure.
meadowside nature center, rockville.
&nbspages 7  and older.
enjoy cherry blossom season through hands-on activities, art  demonstrations and performances.
go on a nighttime search for salamanders, spring peepers, wood frogs and more.
fairmount  heights library, fairmount heights.
justin roberts and not ready for naptime players.
learn about bald  eagles and then visit a few perches in hopes of a sighting.
as you hike,  keep your ears open for peepers and owls and your eyes open for foxes and  coyotes.
projects include stencil pattern prints, silk-screened scenery and more.
help your child discover the wonders of  nature through nature play, crafts, stories and hikes.
discover the wonders of nature through songs, crafts, finger plays and mini-hikes.
wild  ones: redbud vs. dogwood. &nbspages 6 to 10.
make a map  of your town and a compass to help you find your way.
performer  and storyteller thirza defoe shares traditional ojibwe and oneida stories  through words, songs, music and dance.
7:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. stock up the family library at this used book sale.
anime artists encounter arhats.
little sleuths can help thomas & friends solve a mystery while  riding against scenic backdrops, playing games, enjoying activities and meeting  sir topham hatt.
$$ locust grove nature center, bethesda.
this 30-minute, nonverbal show tells the story of a young girl named pj as she discovers the possibilities one box can hold.
make way for ducklings campfire.
$$ cabin john and wheaton regional parks,  montgomery county.
projects include stencil pattern prints,  silk-screened scenery and more.
enjoy a reading of betsey maestro's story about a bright yellow taxi's adventures.
the diggity dudes in concert.
see the  tale of 16-year-old rapunzel, who escapes the clutches of a wicked witch--and  her tower--and embarks on an adventure.
welcome the easter bunny.
visit a fox den to learn how we can help foxes.
easter monday at the national zoo is a tradition in the african american community.
in this play for young audiences,  sinbad and ittifaq battle a bitter sorceress who has cast a poison cloud over  the city.
3 p.m. get a lesson in nature journaling.
meet a live creature from the  story.
there will be performances by commotion and bubbles the clown, a magic show, spin art and more. $$ port discovery, baltimore.
$$ gunston hall plantation, mason neck.
learn which animals hatch from eggs, then go on a hike to search for hidden eggs.
&nbspages 5  and older.