“this ‘cookie-cutter’ approach of adults to kids doesn’t always translate when it comes to making healthy foods that meet the needs of our children.
page 1 of 3   « prev 1 |2 | 3 next »
this may be achieved to  some extent by encouraging the consumption of various nutrient-rich foods, such  as fruits and vegetables.
this quick, one-time registration gives you  access to members-only site benefits.
when formulating the nutritional profile for clif kid products, delloiacono-thies looks at what nutrients kids ages 6-12 usually are lacking, such as iron and zinc, and focuses on helping meet the rda needs.
chaudhari points out that, besides the obvious and oft-focused upon bones, other organs also are developing and changing rapidly across childhood.
when formulating for elementary school children, processors need to be aware of the nutritional needs vital for growing bodies, what the common deficiencies are, the balance between healthy growth vs. unhealthy weight gain, what will give additional benefits to support developing brains and bodies.
how do you make your product meet the parent’s need for nutrition and the child’s taste preference?
whereas symptoms of childhood anemia — fatigue, lethargy, irritability, pale color, weakness, headaches and cold intolerance — can apply to many of today’s overworked kids, children exhibiting such symptoms for more than a day or kids who get infections on a frequent basis should be tested for anemia.
we offer processing best practices as well as new products, equipment and ingredients for food and beverage processors.
clif bar & co. designs its line of clif kids organic products for  “kids in motion,” using whole grains and sweeteners such as fig  paste, brown rice syrup and tapioca syrup.
balancing the needs of the children, the interests of the parents and overall taste preferences presents the biggest challenges to processors.
as chaudhari explains, the focus of nutrition during childhood is to  provide adequate nutrients to meet requirements for growth and activity.
childhood represents a time of marked physical change and development, according to ram chaudhari, senior executive vice president and chief scientific officer forfortitech inc. (www.fortitech.com), schenectady, n.y.
kids have different needs and requirements than adults.”
“there are nutrient gaps [that] reveal a pattern of weakness in  children’s diets,” says chaudhari.
“companies face a dilemma in making foods that are acceptable, tastewise,  for young children and nutritionally acceptable to the parents.
“a well nourished child is not only healthier, but he or she is happier  and performs better scholastically.
“increased availability  of kid-targeted fortified food products could address this.”
it is now known that achieving optimal  nutrient intakes during childhood also helps to reduce the risk of chronic  diseases during adulthood, such as osteoporosis and cardiovascular  disease.”
“because  of differing food patterns and high requirement for certain nutrients in  children compared to adults, children are at greater risk of developing  micronutrient deficiencies of key nutrients,” he says.
view on one page to cast your vote,  log in or become a member.
dietary iron should be sufficient to combat anemia, a surprisingly common ailment in young children.
sarah staley, vice president of business development for netherlands-based friesland foods domo usa inc. (www.domo.nl), concurs.
to maximize bone development in children, many nutrients are needed,  including calcium, phosphorus and magnesium — the key bone mineral  components — and vitamin c, vitamin d and vitamin k for bone metabolism.
“this ‘cookie-cutter’ approach of adults to  kids doesn’t always translate when it comes to making healthy foods that  meet the needs of our children.
page 1 of 3 « prev 1 |2 | 3 next »
[but] younger children will not eat a product they do not like  just because it is good for them.”
the company provides a variety of nutrient premixes targeting the health needs of children in formulated foods and beverages.
however, as many parents know from first-hand experience, this approach often meets with limited success.
“increased availability of kid-targeted fortified food products could address this.”
you may use the headline, deck, byline and url of this article on your web site.
in the teen years you see much more awareness of the link between food, nutrition and health -- that age group can understand that food is about more than what tastes good.
rss food formulation no longer kid stuff the old victorian aphorism, “children should be seen and not  heard,” once was the guiding principle of food formulation.
“the answer to this  problem is not just to eat more food; there is a strong need to change the  overall pattern of micronutrient intake in children.
childhood represents a time of marked physical change and development,  according to ram chaudhari, senior executive vice president and chief  scientific officer forfortitech inc. (www.fortitech.com),  schenectady, n.y.
“companies face a dilemma in making foods that are acceptable, tastewise, for young children and nutritionally acceptable to the parents.
to maximize bone development in children, many nutrients are needed, including calcium, phosphorus and magnesium — the key bone mineral components — and vitamin c, vitamin d and vitamin k for bone metabolism.
“because of differing food patterns and high requirement for certain nutrients in children compared to adults, children are at greater risk of developing micronutrient deficiencies of key nutrients,” he says.
in the teen  years you see much more awareness of the link between food, nutrition and  health -- that age group can understand that food is about more than what  tastes good.
as chaudhari explains, the focus of nutrition during childhood is to provide adequate nutrients to meet requirements for growth and activity.
food formulation no longer kid stuff david feder, rd, technical editor, foodprocessing.comthe old victorian aphorism, children should be seen and not heard, once was the guiding principle of food formulation.
how  do you make your product meet the parent’s need for nutrition and the  child’s taste preference?
to link to this article, select and copy the html code below and paste it on your own web site.
it is now known that achieving optimal nutrient intakes during childhood also helps to reduce the risk of chronic diseases during adulthood, such as osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease.”
“a well nourished child is not only healthier, but he or she is happier and performs better scholastically.
the company provides a variety of nutrient premixes targeting  the health needs of children in formulated foods and beverages.
chaudhari  points out that, besides the obvious and oft-focused upon bones, other organs  also are developing and changing rapidly across childhood.
balancing the needs of the children, the interests of the parents and  overall taste preferences presents the biggest challenges to processors.
by david feder, rd, technical editor | 11/03/2008 to cast your  vote,log in or become a member.
by david feder, rd, technical editor | 11/03/2008 a generation ago, formulating a food or beverage item for the elementary-school set meant sticking sugar in it, a cartoon character on it, then blitzing the tv cartoon hour with a flood of 120-decibel kid-beguiling ads.
“many foods are made with the nutrition needs of adults in  mind,” says tara delloiacono-thies, nutritionist and “kid food  coach” forclif bar & co. (www.clifbar.com),  berkeley, calif.
kids have different needs and requirements than  adults.”
1 vote page 1 of 3  « prev 1 | 2 | 3  next » view on one page related content for children's food  formulation caru, 10 food companies announce huge changes in marketing to children
when formulating for elementary school children, processors need to be  aware of the nutritional needs vital for growing bodies, what the common  deficiencies are, the balance between healthy growth vs. unhealthy weight gain,  what will give additional benefits to support developing brains and bodies.
improving flavors for kids’ foodservice coloring products for a childhood audience childhood in crisis a generation ago, formulating a food or beverage item for the  elementary-school set meant sticking sugar in it, a cartoon character on it,  then blitzing the tv cartoon hour with a flood of 120-decibel kid-beguiling  ads.
dietary iron should be sufficient to combat anemia, a surprisingly common  ailment in young children.
while some manufacturers still try to play that game, the recognition of  children's discerning palates and special nutritional needs is steering most  processors toward more proactive thinking when it comes to feeding our young.
“the answer to this problem is not just to eat more food; there is a strong need to change the overall pattern of micronutrient intake in children.
this may be achieved to some extent by encouraging the consumption of various nutrient-rich foods, such as fruits and vegetables.
foodprocessing.com is the go-to information source for the food and beverage industry.
when formulating the nutritional profile for clif kid products,  delloiacono-thies looks at what nutrients kids ages 6-12 usually are lacking,  such as iron and zinc, and focuses on helping meet the rda needs.
this quick, one-time registration gives you access  to members-only site benefits.
“many foods are made with the nutrition needs of adults in mind,” says tara delloiacono-thies, nutritionist and “kid food coach” forclif bar & co. (www.clifbar.com), berkeley, calif.
“there are nutrient gaps [that] reveal a pattern of weakness in children’s diets,” says chaudhari.
[but] younger children will not eat a product they do not like just because it is good for them.”
“the haphazard eating patterns of children often limit intake of certain key nutrients, causing worry for parents and possible less-than-optimal development for the child,” chaudhari adds.
whereas symptoms of childhood anemia —  fatigue, lethargy, irritability, pale color, weakness, headaches and cold  intolerance — can apply to many of today’s overworked kids,  children exhibiting such symptoms for more than a day or kids who get  infections on a frequent basis should be tested for anemia.
however, as many parents know from first-hand  experience, this approach often meets with limited success.
“the haphazard eating patterns of children often limit intake of  certain key nutrients, causing worry for parents and possible less-than-optimal  development for the child,” chaudhari adds.
while some manufacturers still try to play that game, the recognition of children's discerning palates and special nutritional needs is steering most processors toward more proactive thinking when it comes to feeding our young.