but for languages with irregular spelling (french or danish, say), or unfamiliar sounds (chinese or hindi), it’s better to get a book that comes with audio cds.
stephanie posted: 2011-10-05 09:28:17 at the fitness center, i tune into a french game show while i'm on the elliptical.
where and when, though?
when you’re ready and have the chance, smile and try speaking with your teacher in the corridor, your cute russian co-worker, the man who sells you cigarettes, or the waiter at your favorite restaurant.
i’ll order the coffee in polish, too.
if every time you reach for your coffee mug you see chashka (russian for cup) and you say the word to yourself, it will stick in your head.
the news stories in each of those 33 languages are written in a clear, simple style for a worldwide audience.
when you’re ready, try to read a news story a week, especially about  something you’re familiar with.
if you’re nervous about blundering through a new language  in front of strangers, the best way to relax is to start slowly.
relax the biggest hurdle to learning a language is psychological.
0.24 asx 4389 0.49 hang seng 21406.86 0.12 straits times 2978.08 0.33 iseq 20 515.42 0.69
new york university, for example, offers dozens of classes in a wide variety of languages from norwegian to yiddish to persian, for around usd450 a semester.
you can also read books that have been translated from english into your chosen language—all the better if it’s a book you know.
you can also read books  that have been translated from english into your chosen language—all the  better if it’s a book you know.
nearly every language in the world can be found on the internet.
and recently, i started arabic—by far the hardest language i’ve  studied.
don’t wait until you feel totally comfortable,  or you’ll never start.
while you walk to the train station, or sit in stop-and-go traffic, review to yourself.
hornby’s clear english is translated  into similarly clear german, without some of the convoluted sentence structures  many native germans use.
if you relax, simply  communicate, and most of all enjoy, you can, with patience and effort, learn  any language you want.
make it fun, make it a routine, and do so early.
driving in berlin: rules, habits and fines
but i went in on 7.7.8 and they were on ...
short version: you will learn  grammar and vocabulary surprisingly quickly with this novel (and expensive)  software, but you won’t learn practical stuff at all.
you need to hit the ground running and start an intensive language programme.
students often try to cram as much into their heads as  fast as they can which leads to frustration and fatigue.
benny the irish polyglot ;-) dvora posted: 2011-10-05 14:19:41
you will then feel a thrill as you proceed to  compound sentences, tenses, and modal verbs (should, would, must, may).
most people love to see you make the  effort, and they will be happy to see you break out new vocabulary and longer  sentences.
find a friend who speaks the language
- i plan to visit germany in april of next year for an extended time.
if taking a class, they are exposed to the language only one to three times a week, plus the time they spend on homework.
by robert lane greene* *lane greene is an  international correspondent for the economist: he writes on american foreign  policy and international politics for www.economist.com.
benny the irish  polyglot ;-) dvora posted: 2011-10-05 14:19:41
you must listen carefully and then  imitate.
however, if you decide to go the autodidact route, make sure to buy top-notch  books, audio cds, and computer programs.
what  are some of the steps i need to take to ensure ... ask your question
a good book can get you far  in a language with an easy spelling system, like spanish or italian.
though i was frustrated at first, now that i have a better teacher and  a good textbook, i’m making rapid progress.
thu, 1 march 2012 - twitter - linkedin - facebook - google+ - jobs - housing - classifieds - listings - expat deals - dating - community - forum - german news - events - ask the expert - newsletter - hotels - survey - topics - - home - news - german news - european news - community news - news focus - life in germany - lifestyle - expat voices - groups & clubs - blogs & photos - questionnaires - forums & connect - profiles discussion forum - leisure - arts & culture - dining & cuisine - travel & tourism - cinema review - events - moving to germany - country facts - getting started - relocation - repatriation - employment - employment & trends - job search - expatica hr - housing - renting - buying - where to live - housing search - education - pre-school - school - higher education - courses & workshops - languages - family & kids - health & fitness - healthcare - wellbeing - fitness & sports - finance & business - business - tax - banking - pensions & insurance - expatica hr - tools
they came to the  united states at the same time, in the crucial years around puberty.
i’ve  learned spanish, german, french, portuguese and russian—all post-puberty.
where  and when, though?
i’ve  found routledge’s “colloquial” series to be fairly good.
repeat these basics over and over, and then vary the subject.
pinker points out that walter kissinger (henry’s younger brother) has no german accent, though sixty years after his emigration, henry famously does.
(according to pinker, the accent is as much a part of the language instinct as is grammar.)
what  they don’t realize is how obsessively john coltrane practiced, repeating  scales and arpeggios over and over again to build up the skills he would need  to make that freeform composition on the stage seem so effortless.
i have a copy of nick hornby’s high  fidelity in german, for example.
you’ll need to start out with a dictionary, but once you learn frequently-used words, you’ll be able to go without it and guess most of the things you don’t know.
every student of language is  different, but here are some strategies that have helped me: slow and  steady regular practice is by far the most important element in  learning a language.
if you kick yourself for every little slip-up (and you’ll make many), you’ll never progress.
a new foreign language can be difficult to learn, and  linguists agree.
i live in new york, and i love it here.”
dress codes in germany - groups and clubs in germany - 'poor but sexy' berlin pulls in the tourists - life in expert q&a - ask your question - my partner ( gabi ) and i wish to determine the most effective method for me to learn german.
similarly, someone  learning german would do well to start with kafka rather than thomas mann.
then, i’ll try “goodbye.”
this is bad practice—different languages pose different challenges.
when you’re ready and  have the chance, smile and try speaking with your teacher in the corridor, your  cute russian co-worker, the man who sells you cigarettes, or the waiter at your  favorite restaurant.
my pronunciation isn’t perfect, but it never fails to win a slightly surprised smile.
(illustration above by markus)
i know the original book and movie, so i myself can zip through it.
it is exactly the same way when composing a foreign language.
new  york university, for example, offers dozens of classes in a wide variety of  languages from norwegian to yiddish to persian, for around usd450 a semester.
you’ll get a crucial psychological boost when you can make out a few  words, then phrases and sentences, in a row.
i’ve found routledge’s “colloquial” series to be fairly good.
walter’s advantage, pinker surmises, was being a few years younger than  his brother when they moved.
this is an excellent vocabulary-building technique.
but if you know the  subject, it can be pleasantly easy, since you’ll be able to guess many  unfamiliar words.
any comments on the pimsleur courses?
text size 05/10/2011language learning for adults and how to make it work almost all the adults i know think learning a new language in  adulthood is impossible.
learning a foreign language all by yourself is extremely  difficult—and probably not a good idea if it’s your first one.
computer software has something to offer as well.
each lesson is structured exactly the same—identical exercises in the same order.
here are some tips to stay motivated.
this allowed him to absorb more english and kick  his accent.
learning a foreign language all by yourself is extremely difficult—and probably not a good idea if it’s your first one.
related  articles how expats are learning the local lingo expat children and language learning steven pinker, for one, thinks  the “language instinct” is lost somewhere around puberty.
to produce a foreign language requires more than lips, teeth and tongue—it requires ears, eyes and mental agility.
looking for work in germany: the in depth version our comprehensive guide includes information on how to find work, recruitment agencies, employment contracts and labour law.
do this every few days and  you’ll be surprised by your progress.
every student of language is different, but here are some strategies that have helped me: slow and steady regular practice is by far the most important element in learning a language.
walter’s advantage, pinker surmises, was being a few years younger than his brother when they moved.
a good book can get you far in a language with an easy spelling system, like spanish or italian.
while  focusing on grammar building blocks, the program sacrifices basic elements of  conversation such as “hello” or “my name is” or  “help!”
stephanie posted: 2011-10-05 09:28:17 at the fitness center, i tune into a french game show while i'm on the  elliptical.
to  produce a foreign language requires more than lips, teeth and tongue—it  requires ears, eyes and mental agility.
this is bad  practice—different languages pose different challenges.
in part one of our two part series, we cover the driving culture in berlin, where to park and buy gas and, most importantly, the laws.
rosetta stone has another drawback.
but be  sure to get a recommendation from a knowledgeable friend—not every native  speaker is a good teacher.
i reviewed the danish version of the widely marketed rosetta stone series here.
read bbc.com also has written material that you can practice with.
(you can check out their 33-language menu here).
the bbc online language courses are nice and i love
at a local  coffee shop staffed exclusively by young polish blondes, i take my muffin and  coffee away with a “dziekuje.”
emerge yourself in the language for one week.
this is what worked for me: radboud in'to languages, nijmegen.
they came to the united states at the same time, in the crucial years around puberty.
my  pronunciation isn’t perfect, but it never fails to win a slightly  surprised smile.
don’t wait until you feel totally comfortable, or you’ll never start.
if taking a class,  they are exposed to the language only one to three times a week, plus the time  they spend on homework.
if you’re nervous about blundering through a new language in front of strangers, the best way to relax is to start slowly.
i know the original book and movie, so i myself can  zip through it.
the “ultimate” series from random house has a  straightforward, building-block structure, with practical vocabulary and lucid  explanations.
“i am going to work, because i have to.
when you are ready to move to the next level and read unfamiliar books in this language, ask a native which authors write in an easy, clear style.
but  for languages with irregular spelling (french or danish, say), or unfamiliar  sounds (chinese or hindi), it’s better to get a book that comes with  audio cds.
if every time you reach for  your coffee mug you see chashka (russian for cup) and you say the word to  yourself, it will stick in your head.
pinker points out that walter  kissinger (henry’s younger brother) has no german accent, though sixty  years after his emigration, henry famously does.
i plan to visit germany in april of next year for an extended time.
the bbc, in fact, broadcasts everything from spanish to bengali.
also, many languages have structures rosetta stone isn’t equipped to teach: the arabic dual number (words have singular, dual and plural endings), the russian verbal aspect system, the spanish subjunctive and so forth are all distinctive.
read bbc.com also has  written material that you can practice with.
(illustration above by   markus)
german immigration and residency regulations want to move to germany but haven’t figured out the details?
the news stories in each of those  33 languages are written in a clear, simple style for a worldwide audience.
if you were helping a foreigner try to learn english, for example,  you would suggest hemingway, not david foster wallace.
why renting in germany is more than just an apartment search learning german: passing the critical stage o’zapft is!
however, if you decide to go the autodidact route, make sure to buy top-notch books, audio cds, and computer programs.
it is far more helpful to spend five minutes  twice a day, every day, thinking, reading and talking in the language.
i reviewed the danish version of the  widely marketed rosetta stone series here.
i have a copy of nick hornby’s high fidelity in german, for example.
while  you walk to the train station, or sit in stop-and-go traffic, review to  yourself.
you must listen carefully and then imitate.
when you’re ready, try to read a news story a week, especially about something you’re familiar with.
the bbc, in fact, broadcasts everything  from spanish to bengali.
- - events - ask the expert - hotels - international calling - listings - classifieds - community - dating - housing search - job search - receive our newsletter - survival guide - expatica countries - - belgium - france - germany - luxembourg - moscow - netherlands - portugal - south africa - spain - switzerland - united kingdom - editor's choice - expatica readers offer tips for using social media for business
do this every few days and you’ll be surprised by your progress.
learning a language in adulthood is difficult—nothing can replace the childhood environment, much less the childhood brain.
check out expatica’s overview of the german permit system.
add a  comment rate article:     add my rating tweet 4 reactions to this article benny the irish polyglot posted: 2009-10-07 13:24:56 definitely some interesting points, although i have to say that most of  these apply to learning just one language, which you would repeat to be a  polyglot.
rosetta  stone has another drawback.
this is obvious, but practice  with a native speaker is enormously helpful.
i live in new  york.”
what are some of the steps i need to take to ensure ... - life in a-z listings - find the business you need - travel agencies - tours - ferries - discussion forums - english in germany looking to make friends in wolfsburg films, shows & events in germany ticket for parov stelar band 28 march in darmstadt travel & transport in germany usa immigration legal problems in germany can friends come to a family court hearing discuss german culture personality interview - the german style
recognising that sometimes things are difficult before they are easy is  step one towards language learning.
but  don’t expect miraculous results.
reprinted with permission of www.janera.com 4 reactions to this article benny the irish polyglot posted: 2009-10-07 13:24:56 definitely some interesting points, although i have to say that most of these apply to learning just one language, which you would repeat to be a polyglot.
but the jazz analogy  may compel people to think that they simply don’t have the talent.
language is like jazz: both are spontaneous compositions derived from a finite set of elements (notes or words).
then,  i’ll try “goodbye.”
you’ll need to start out with a dictionary, but once  you learn frequently-used words, you’ll be able to go without it and  guess most of the things you don’t know.
start simple: “i go to work.
i've been doing french with pimsleur.
attending a class is the single best way to motivate yourself—the desire to impress a teacher and classmates will help keep you on task.
you are here: home life in lifestyle language learning for adults and how to make it work - lifestyle - expat voices - groups & clubs - blogs & photos - questionnaires lifestyle archive tweet 4 text size 05/10/2011language learning for adults and how to make it work
while focusing on grammar building blocks, the program sacrifices basic elements of conversation such as “hello” or “my name is” or “help!”
but be sure to get a recommendation from a knowledgeable friend—not every native speaker is a good teacher.
if you relax, simply communicate, and most of all enjoy, you can, with patience and effort, learn any language you want.
when you are ready to move to the next level and read  unfamiliar books in this language, ask a native which authors write in an easy,  clear style.
learning a language in adulthood is  difficult—nothing can replace the childhood environment, much less the  childhood brain.
- about expatica - advertise - banners & widgets - contact us - privacy policy - editorial policy - disclaimer - sitemap - terms of service - refer site to a friend © copyright 2000-2012 expatica communications bv
reprinted  with permission of www.janera.com 4 reactions to this article benny the irish polyglot posted: 2009-10-07 13:24:56 definitely some interesting points, although i have to say that most of  these apply to learning just one language, which you would repeat to be a  polyglot.
emerge yourself in the language for one  week.
surround yourself whenever possible, bring the language into your immediate world.
the “ultimate” series from random house has a straightforward, building-block structure, with practical vocabulary and lucid explanations.
but don’t expect miraculous results.
almost all the adults i know think learning a new language in adulthood is impossible.
nearly every language in the  world can be found on the internet.
if you kick yourself for every little slip-up (and  you’ll make many), you’ll never progress.
add a  comment classifieds forums house search dating job search a-z listings ask the expert newsletter expert tips: dress codes in germany groups and clubs in germany 'poor but sexy' berlin pulls in the tourists life in expert q&a my partner ( gabi ) and i wish to determine the most effective method for  me to learn german.
add a comment expatica tools classifieds forums house search dating job search a-z listings ask the expert newsletter - life in essentials - - expert tips:
you don’t need to understand everything, but this  will both help you feel the rhythm and become accustomed to the accent.
- inside expatica -
as you potter around the house, listen to the day’s news in your language of choice.
this is crucial—reading an article about unfamiliar material is distressingly complex.
add a comment general rating: rate article: add my rating tweet 4 4 reactions to this article benny the irish polyglot posted: 2009-10-07 13:24:56 definitely some interesting points, although i have to say that most of these apply to learning just one language, which you would repeat to be a polyglot.
i’ve learned spanish, german, french, portuguese and russian—all post-puberty.
if you have the means to get a private tutor, even better.
language is like jazz: both are spontaneous compositions  derived from a finite set of elements (notes or words).
though you’ll be able to say, “there is not an elephant under the airplane,” i’m not sure you’ll ever have a reason to use this sentence in daily conversation.
it is far more helpful to spend five minutes twice a day, every day, thinking, reading and talking in the language.
but the jazz analogy may compel people to think that they simply don’t have the talent.
repeat, repeat, repeat.
however, with patience and persistence, it can be done.
you will then feel a thrill as you proceed to compound sentences, tenses, and modal verbs (should, would, must, may).
“steve goes to work.
you’ll get a crucial psychological boost when you can make out a few words, then phrases and sentences, in a row.
by robert lane greene* *lane greene is an international correspondent for the economist: he writes on american foreign policy and international politics for www.economist.com.
take a class if you live in any medium-sized city, a foreign-language class is not hard to find.
rosetta’s software does not address any of these eccentricities.
i wrote my own advice which is specifically about the aspect of being multilingual rather than just learning one language, it's on my blog and titled how to beome a polyglot; a similar google search is how i found this article.
recognising that sometimes things are difficult before they are easy is step one towards language learning.
relax the biggest hurdle to learning a language is  psychological.
related articles how expats are learning the local lingo expat children and language learning steven pinker, for one, thinks the “language instinct” is lost somewhere around puberty.
this allowed him to absorb more english and kick his accent.
children are linguistic geniuses, adults linguistic dolts.
this is obvious, but practice with a native speaker is enormously helpful.
the abcs of the german school system what you need to know about german schools and daycare.
each lesson is structured exactly the  same—identical exercises in the same order.
take a class if you live in any medium-sized city, a foreign-language class is not  hard to find.
surround yourself whenever possible, bring the language into your  immediate world.
if you’re lucky enough to  have a good friend who is a native speaker—or best of all, a  girlfriend/boyfriend or housemate (someone you see all the time)—take  advantage of him or her.
the “10 minutes a day” series of books is  generally useless, as if written for not particularly bright six-year-olds, but  they do come with small stickers you can attach to items all around your house.
short version: you will learn grammar and vocabulary surprisingly quickly with this novel (and expensive) software, but you won’t learn practical stuff at all.
caroline posted: 2011-10-05 16:50:23
if you were helping a foreigner try to learn english, for example, you would suggest hemingway, not david foster wallace.
also, many  languages have structures rosetta stone isn’t equipped to teach: the  arabic dual number (words have singular, dual and plural endings), the russian  verbal aspect system, the spanish subjunctive and so forth are all distinctive.
you need to hit the ground running and  start an intensive language programme.
a new foreign language can be difficult to learn, and linguists agree.
the 'goal' ... - i am in the process f reicieving an artist visa from the auslanderbehorde
similarly, someone learning german would do well to start with kafka rather than thomas mann.
the “10 minutes a day” series of books is generally useless, as if written for not particularly bright six-year-olds, but they do come with small stickers you can attach to items all around your house.
attending a class is the single best way to motivate  yourself—the desire to impress a teacher and classmates will help keep  you on task.
children  are linguistic geniuses, adults linguistic dolts.
i am in the process f reicieving an artist visa from the auslanderbehorde
as you learn, practice out loud whenever you are alone.
this is crucial—reading an  article about unfamiliar material is distressingly complex.
i wrote my own advice which is specifically about the aspect of  being multilingual rather than just learning one language, it's on my blog and  titled how  to beome a polyglot; a similar google search is how i found this  article.
(according to pinker, the accent is as much a part of the language  instinct as is grammar.)
and recently, i started arabic—by far the hardest language i’ve studied.
students often try to cram as much into their heads as fast as they can which leads to frustration and fatigue.
as you potter around the house, listen to the day’s news in your  language of choice.
i live in new york, and i love it  here.”
i loved it at the beginning, but am getting fed up now in course #3.
most people love to see you make the effort, and they will be happy to see you break out new vocabulary and longer sentences.
those steps beyond baby talk are exciting.
it  is exactly the same way when composing a foreign language.
what they don’t realize is how obsessively john coltrane practiced, repeating scales and arpeggios over and over again to build up the skills he would need to make that freeform composition on the stage seem so effortless.
at a local coffee shop staffed exclusively by young polish blondes, i take my muffin and coffee away with a “dziekuje.”
though i was frustrated at first, now that i have a better teacher and a good textbook, i’m making rapid progress.
steve lives in new york.”
though you’ll be able to say, “there is not an  elephant under the airplane,” i’m not sure you’ll ever have a  reason to use this sentence in daily conversation.
you don’t need to understand everything, but this will both help you feel the rhythm and become accustomed to the accent.
hornby’s clear english is translated into similarly clear german, without some of the convoluted sentence structures many native germans use.
participate in the forums - most popular articles - most read most commented on - editor's guide to where to live in germany - act now if you want to work in an international school - hr european news roundup - february 2012 - italy told not send back refugees intercepted at sea - german court quashes british bishop's holocaust conviction new members kaxoasoc › ronnyjachnow › anitalove12 › frenchforms› lisadersen › shurame › register now and join our community!
but if you know the subject, it can be pleasantly easy, since you’ll be able to guess many unfamiliar words.
german festivals in 2011 public holidays in germany in 2011 - - index last var.(%) bel 20 2263.44 0.46 dax 6865.53 0.82 ibex 30 8517 -0.13 cac 40 3466.27 0.55 ftse 100 5947.72 0.17 aex 325.54 -0.21 djia 12984.69 0.36 nasdaq 2956.98 0.81 ftse mib 16452.29 0.86 tsx composite 12731.28
if you’re lucky enough to have a good friend who is a native speaker—or best of all, a girlfriend/boyfriend or housemate (someone you see all the time)—take advantage of him or her.
if you are in a big city, you will be spoiled for choice.