on a typical day we usually have 1-2 table service meals scheduled.
you can step back into this area, get out of the way of the traffic and have a virtually unobstructed view of the lagoon and the sky -
from my 85 year old grandma, to my mom and mil, to cj and then the kids.
please, mark any article  you find interesting and wish to share with the community, even if it’s  been marked already.
he told me i'd receive information in the mail regarding online check in
not to say we won't get to see and do things we as adults will love, but we will definitely have things planned out much better!
not all of us had a snack  every day so by the end of our trip we had all sorts of credits left over for  snacks.
photos courtesy of wdwinfo.com share | posted by unbalanced libra at 12:55 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: epcot, events, flower and garden festival sunday, april 19, 2009 disney vacations for 5 or more sunday, april 19, 2009 at this moment, we are a family of 5 - me, cj, and the 3 kids ages 2, 3 and 6.
in front of splash mountain, there's a opening you can see them clearly - tomorrowland.... on the bridge... - walkway between the central hub in front of the castle and tomorrowland - the rose garden if you can get there - on one of the benches by the riverboat on the rivers of america - bridge from the central hub to tomorrow land - from the gallows at liberty square - on main street, but not at the hub; further up the street by the ice cream parlor.
this will allow you to  suggest or vote up that particular entry on dismarks.
anywhere around the lagoon - anywhere around the world showcase this year we have a wishes cruise scheduled - i am so so excited for this!
we stopped in nc overnight and reached orlando by about 1pm.
some examples of eligible snack options would include: a frozen ice-cream, a fruit bar, a bag of chips, a 20 oz. bottle of coke or a 20 oz. bottle of water.
thanks to wdwautographs.com we now have a good idea where to look for certain characters  and when!
he gives this unique introduction for that night's episode.
- utilizing online check-in will not get your room ready any faster than normal processes.
we will definitely tour world showcase this trip, even if we only pass  through each country, we will see all of them.
in front of splash mountain, there's a opening you can see them clearly
here's a breakdown of the cost for the dining  plan in 2009, what the terms mean and which package includes what: quick service dining plan adult: $209.00 child: $144.00
i figure it deserves another chance before i definitely turn my nose up at it.
disney really knows how to beautify the surroundings!
i especially love when they open the doors to the  building and you can see the park for a brief moment as you're falling and  screaming!
however, probably due to laziness, when we booked this year's vacation i did  include the dining plan.
the layout seems okay: more pictures
the resort will receive your package and  hold it for you.
share | posted by unbalanced libra at 7:16 am 0 comments links to this post labels: events, rides and attractions tuesday, april 14, 2009 disney's dining plan tuesday, april 14, 2009 last trip, after all was said and done the one thing i said i wouldn't do again was the dining plan.
weather permitting, the hours of operation are: sunday: 10:30 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
the drive down was uneventful.
not all of us had a snack every day so by the end of our trip we had all sorts of credits left over for snacks.
- table service meal – a meal from a traditional restaurant or a buffet.
get the most for your money, have dinners planned at expensive places.'
here's a mini glossary: quick service meal – a meal from a counter service establishment  like pecos bill’s in the magic kingdom or the electric umbrella at epcot.
we could book 2 rooms at the polynesian, but the 2 rooms would equal  close to over $800 a night anyway, so that is out!
since we're driving we don't need to be so concerned about packing but the garden grocer may come in good use, for diapers and such.
i wanted everyone to see and do the stuff they wanted - i wanted us all to have a great time!
an  example would be the california grill at the contemporary.
share | posted by unbalanced libra  at 2:42 pm 0 comments links to this  post labels: disney films friday, april 17, 2009 best places to watch fireworks in disney world friday, april 17,  2009  on our last trip we didn't get to see fireworks while we were in a park.
if yours doesn't, take a room towel.
get the most for your money, have dinners planned  at expensive places.'
share | posted by unbalanced libra  at 4:28 pm 0
share | posted by unbalanced libra  at 5:50 am 0
looks like we won't be able to experience this attraction as wyatt is only 2 - but maybe next year!
i thought lunch would be a good time, so we have reservations at noon.
we did, however, get to watch wishes from out resort, the polynesian  - right there on the beach - and that was fantastic!
dante, cj, fawn and olivia went on the tomorrowland speedway - livi sucks at driving!
and i know for my family, it's the one thing we  really look forward to.
this time, we already have it set in our minds, this trip is all about the kids.
in  the end, it really depends on you and who you're vacationing with.
avoid the stress and hassle of taking all that stuff with you - don't forget  about the luggage fees now too!
wyatt met mickey - who is his favorite, although you'd never know bythis video - lol
networked blogs top stories follow this blog updates from wdw updates and photos straight from walt disney world!
since my children are only 6, 3 and 2,  character dining is a must.
and i would really love to be in the magic kingdom to seewishes at least once on this upcoming trip!
so far, what we have planned for our trip seems like enough but we may take some time to visit other resorts so we can get an idea of where we'd like to stay next year!
you take a bus to get around.
i've read mixed reviews about this place.
share | posted by  unbalanced libra  at 4:35 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: disney  resorts, wdw basics monday, april 20, 2009 disney world in april and may monday, april 20, 2009  as i  mentioned already, i prefer going to disney world between the end of april -  the middle of may - first and foremost, because of the weather.
hollywood  studios from the courtyard in front of the mickey's hat.
most villas are for 4 or 5 people, the next one up is for a maximum of 9 people and that is a 2 bedroom villa at $630/night!
this is also great for those who have special diet needs!
staying on site at a disney resort is one of the main reasons i love to go to disney!
from right  after easter to right before memorial day the crowds aren't bad at all.
here is what the room  looks like: if we decide to go next year, or any year after that for  that matter, wyatt will no longer be free and he will no longer be able to  sleep in a pack n play.
tomorrowland.... on the bridge... walkway between the central hub in front of the castle and tomorrowland the rose garden if you can get there on one of the benches by the riverboat on the rivers of america bridge from the central hub to tomorrow land from the gallows at liberty square on main street, but not at the hub; further up the street by the ice  cream parlor.
there are other rides/attractions that interest us but we can play it by ear  when we are at the park.
share | posted by unbalanced libra at 8:32 am 0 comments links to
so many people say breakfasts are a waste - especially if you have the meal plan. '
if you  decide to check in online, you will need the following information: reservation number your address and phone number a phone number you can be reached at while traveling credit card information, if you plan on having a credit card set up for  extra room charges, such as internet usage, etc... special requests, such as room refrigerator or pack n play, etc... a welcome folder with your key to the world card will be waiting for you  at the designated online check-in area at the resort.
like i  said, we prefer breakfasts.
well, this year we will be better  prepared and we will know where to find certain characters!
we booked our vacation with aaa - my travel agent's name  is travis flexer and he is wonderful.
the plan also  includes one refillable drink mug per person.
share | - for more tips and information, visit planning disney with kids posted by unbalanced libra at 12:22 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: wdw '09
checking in online is simple.
suddenly the lights in the library turn back on, a door opens and you enter the "twilight zone."
of course there are bigger  rooms st the polynesian, for $900+ a night which is definitely not in our  budget!
try to stand where in the first row after the street  path the cast members tape off that way people's heads aren't directly in front  of you
we took the boat  launch back to the polynesian and got to see wishes from the boat!
basically, i did all the planning and i was trying to  find things that would keep everyone happy.
platinum dining plan this package includes everything in the premium package plus: personalized pre-arrival itinerary planning; a fireworks cruise; private in-room babysitting; nightly turn down service; a spa treatment; and a disney photopass cd.
and i  would really love to be in the magic kingdom to seewishes at least once on this  upcoming trip!
my kids do and last year when we went to disney, we never did find buzz lightyear for dante and ariel was not at the princess breakfast in norway and the grotto in the mk was closed so olivia was very bummed about that.
here's a breakdown of the cost for the dining plan in 2009, what the terms mean and which package includes what: quick service dining plan adult: $29.99 child: $8.99 dining plan adult: $39.99 child: $10.99 deluxe dining plan adult: $71.99 child: $20.99 premium dining plan adult: $159.00 child: $109.00 platinum dining plan adult: $209.00 child: $144.00
staying off property in a rental house, while cost effective, is not something i'd want to do.
trip planning monday, april 6, 2009 disney vacation planning with kids monday, april 6, 2009 no matter how excited you may be to take that trip to disney, if you travel with children, keep this in mind:it is all about them
i figure it deserves another chance before i definitely turn my  nose up at it.
yes, you will pay to ship the package but it's worth it to avoid the stress and hassle of taking all that stuff with you - don't forget about the luggage fees now too!
if you're at a theme park and get lots of stuff or maybe something that is just too big to carry around the rest of the day, you can have the item sent to your resort for you.
the park was empty, we got right on rides.
only 8 more days until we leave!
so, that's where i'm at with this.
the plan also includes one refill¬able drink mug per  person.
once the intro is  over the hollywood tower hotel appears around you as it was in it's prime.
my kids do and last year when we went  to disney, we never did find buzz lightyear for dante and ariel was not at the  princess breakfast in norway and the grotto in the mk was closed so olivia was  very bummed about that.
if you want to use 3 quick service meals in one day, you can - it doesn't matter how you use them but make sure you use them!
he told me i'd receive information in the  mail regarding online check in
the other reason?epcot's flower and garden festival - it's so gorgeous in epcot  this time of year!
order groceries - don't want to ship stuff?
great views of the entire fireworks display - the beach at one of the magic kingdom resorts (polynesian, grand floridan, wilderness lodge, ft.
dante, cj,  fawn and olivia went on the tomorrowland speedway - livi sucks at driving!
users can  contribute links to articles they find interesting (or vote up existing links)  for the benefit of other disney fans.
other options i  have looked at so far: disney villas
we will definitely tour world showcase this trip, even if we only pass through each country, we will see all of them.
it's also a loud and crowded resort, of course -  it's cheap.
my first choice is the  newbay lake tower villas because, well, they are new and the are right by the  monorail - i love being near disney's monorail transportation!
snacks – may typically be purchased from counter service locations,  kiosks or carts throughout walt disney world parks and resorts.
this means you may not get to see and do everything  thatyou hope to but believe me, that is much better to deal with than unhappy  children!
we all went on pooh's adventure - wyatt screamed through it!
share | - big thunder mountain railroad - walt disney world railroad - splash mountain - monsters, inc.
epcot rides and attractions we want to  experience at the magic kingdom: big thunder mountain railroad buzz lightyear's space ranger spin ariel's grotto these are on our 'must see' list for this year.
that being said, is it really beneficial for us to purchase the dining plan?
from the monorail as it circles the seven seas lagoon.
if yours doesn't, take a room  towel.
laugh floor - liberty square riverboat - jungle cruise - tomorrowland speedway - pirates of the caribbean - buzz lightyear's space ranger spin - ariel's grotto posted by unbalanced libra at 4:28 pm 0
with that being said, breakfast is usually the cheapest meal of the day so when we use the dining plan and schedule a lot of breakfasts, we aren'treally getting our money's worth.
last year we attended the spirit of aloha luau (which was awesome by the way!)
in addition to these dining options, this plan also provides the following entertainment opportunities: preferred fireworks viewing for wishes and illuminations; unlimited golf, boat rental, fishing excursions; admission to cirque du soleil’s show, la nouba; access to disney children’s activities centers; admission to a number of disney’s theme park tours.
- order groceries - don't want to ship stuff?
how was i going to pack everything i needed for 5 people?!
this saves you from having to pack all kinds of extra diapers, water, snacks for the kids, etc.
this ride is a free fall type ride but that isn't even half of the reason why i love it!
beach towels take up too much room if you try to pack them!
between 4-5:30 is a good time.
the kids are usually in good  spirits because it's the beginning of the day.
basically, i did all the planning and i was trying to find things that would keep everyone happy.
utilizing online check-in will not get your room ready any faster than  normal processes.
standing right in front of the crossroads.
even though  i said never again, we did book this upcoming vacation to include the basic  dining plan.
freelance writing my company - how i pay for those fab disney trips!
you get in your seat on the elevator and strap yourself in!
that being said,  we have already begun looking into other options.
deluxe dining plan the disney deluxe dining plan includes three table service meals and two  snacks per person, per night of your package stay for everyone in the party  ages 3 and over.
so, that's where i'm at  with this.
quick service dining plan the disney quick service dining plan is the newest plan and includes two quick service meals and two snacks per person, per night of your package stay for everyone in the party ages 3 and over.
this is also great for those who have  special diet needs!
you can read about thathere and here
this makes it feel so real!
share | posted by unbalanced libra at 2:42 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: disney films friday, april 17, 2009 best places to watch fireworks in disney world friday, april 17, 2009
about $4,000 just for the room???
the 2009 dining plan last year we got the basic plan and to be honest, i think it was waste.
share | posted by unbalanced libra at8:14 am 0 comments links to this post labels: disney dining, epcot wednesday, april 8, 2009 tips for packing for your disney vacation!
here's a breakdown: - quick service meal – a meal from a counter service establishment like pecos bill’s in the magic kingdom or the electric umbrella at epcot.
on my family's last trip, we didn't keep the kids in mind as well as we should have.
the view by the tori gate is great between norway and china there is a cast member entrance set back a ways  from the walkway.
kids become very tired swimming even for only an hour.
the doors close and the elevator heads up.
it's near animal kingdom and that's about it.
here are a few tips, that may seem like common sense but it's surprising how many people don't think of them!
regular rooms start at around $82/night.
please, mark any article you find interesting and wish to share with the community, even if it’s been marked already.
this means you need  to plan for extra travel time.
share | posted by unbalanced libra at 5:50 am 0
now you're in the boiler room of the hotel  waiting to board a 1917 service elevator.
- from hollywood blvd.
despite the current h1n1 flu concern, things are calm and *normal* here.
what is included is a soft drink and dessert and this is great if you don't want wine, beer or a mixed drink with your dinnerand you usually order dessert.
you  get in your seat on the elevator and strap yourself in!
the chefs cook at the table and entertain as they cook.
this year, the price is $12.49 and once purchased you can get free refills at identified soft drink locationsat your resort for the length of your stay.
in my experience, this is the maximum amount of people for most rooms at any of the disney resorts.
epcot has kidcot - these fun stops are "kid stations" located in several future world pavilions and in all of the world showcase countries.
this year i want  to be prepared, so i did a search to find the best places to watch the  fireworks and here's what i found: magic kingdom from the dumbo ride....preferably on dumbo outside the plaza restaurant
this means you may not get to see and do everything thatyou hope to but believe me, that is much better to deal with than unhappy children!
no, we're not there yet  but disney allows resort guests to check in up to 10 days prior to their  arrival date!
any later than that and kids may be over tired and overstimulated from the day's events.
this package entitles you to one bottle of wine  per night, redeemable at table service restaurants during your stay.
the chefs cook at  the table and entertain as they cook.
so, what happened with us last trip was that every meal we were  still paying for something, a child's meal, an appetizer, a drink and/or the  gratuity so it didn't really feel as though we were getting a deal.
- decide which rides and attractions you want to see before you go - this is another obvious one but so many people, including us on our last last trip, get to a park and then stand there looking at the park map, trying to decide where to go first.
and that took  up 2 table service credits.
this ride is a free fall type ride but that isn't even half  of the reason why i love it!
these are the countries in world showcase: these are the rides/attractions on our 'must see' list: - mexico - norway - china - germany - italy - united states - japan - morocco - france - united kingdom - canada share | - soarin' - spaceship earth - maelstrom - journey into imagination with figment posted by unbalanced libra at 6:10 pm 1 comments links to this post labels:
then  you go to the library.
each guest on the disney premium plan receives one table  service breakfast, lunch and dinner and two snacks per day.
click here to see what we have planned for  this trip!
the doors close, they start to go up, lightning hits the building and they vanish.
allears.net walt disney world (for grownups)
then you see a young couple, a little girl and a bellhop enter the elevator.
please see: ddp updates for 2012 share | posted by unbalanced libra at 12:19 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: disney dining wednesday, april 22, 2009 dismarks - social bookmarking for disney fans wednesday, april 22, 2009 dismarks is a new social bookmarking site that is set up in a similar fashion to digg but it is specifically tailored to fans of disney.
within the dining plans, this meal would include an entrée, dessert and a soft drink.
many resorts have special kid events planned.
i've read mixed reviews about this  place.
you are able to enjoy the 360 degree fireworks and get great photo and video shots!
for more information on the dining plan and the  breakdown (math wise) check out:disney's dining plan (that's my opinion) by  steve russo update: i wrote about our experience using the ddp  again in 2009 >>is the disney dining plan worth it - part 2 now that we are dvc members, we do not feel the need to use the ddp.
this year, even though 6 of us are going (my mother in law is going to be with us) we're still okay because my youngest is only 2 and can still sleep comfortably in a pack n play.
prices are $16 for adults and $10 for children ages 3-9.
within the dining plans, this meal would include an entrée, dessert and  a soft drink.
so, onto the moderate resorts, looking at the suites.
the park was empty, we got  right on rides.
monday: 10:30 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. tuesday: 10:30 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. wednesday:
trip planning saturday, april 4, 2009 where to meet disney characters saturday, april 4, 2009 photo  courtesy ofwdwautographs.com have a favorite disney character you  hope to meet when you visit disney world?
the doors close again and at the next stop, you move forward.
premium dining plan the disney premium plan offers a complement of dining, recreation, and entertainment options.
plan for it to arrive the  day before or the day of your arrival.
when it comes to souvenirs you may find yourself wondering how to get what you buy back to your resort.
here is what the room looks like: if we decide to go next year, or any year after that for that matter, wyatt will no longer be free and he will no longer be able to sleep in a pack n play.
skip to main | skip to sidebar family disney vacations - about me - contact - advertise - link exchange - need help planning? thursday, april 30, 2009 walt disney 2009 vacation thursday, april 30, 2009 we arrived in wdw yesterday!
comments links to this post labels: magic kingdom, rides and attractions friday, april 24, 2009 is the disney dining plan worth it?
there are so many things  to see and do in wdw as an adult but if you are going with kids remember to  plan your trip around them.
you can also have the resort ship it to your home
we had a bite to eat at captain cook's here at the polynesian and then headed to the magic kingdom via monorail.
on our last trip we didn't get to see fireworks while we were in a park.
dining plan the disney dining plan includes one quick service meal, one snack, and one table service meal per person, per night of your package stay for everyone in the party ages 3 and over.
- plan meals early! -
our home resort: our disney photos current trip photos: www.flickr.com go to familydisneytr's photostream past disney trips: www.flickr.com unbalancedlibra'sdisney photoset recent entries loading...
create an account online with  garden grocer and place your order before you get to your resort.
disney really knows how to beautify the  surroundings!
for more tips and information, visit planning disney with kids this time, we already have it set in our minds, this trip is all about the  kids.
my first choice is the newbay lake tower villas because, well, they are new and the are right by the monorail - i love being near disney's monorail transportation!
and that took up 2 table service credits.
skip to main  | skip to sidebar family disney vacations walt disney 2009 vacation thursday, april 30, 2009 we arrived in wdw yesterday!
the view by the tori gate is great - between norway and china there is a cast member entrance set back a ways from the walkway.
share | sent via blackberry from t-mobile posted by unbalanced libra at 6:45 am 2 comments links to this post labels: wdw '09 saturday, april 25, 2009 epcot itinerary saturday, april 25, 2009 epcot is my favorite park.
we considered flying this trip but have decided to drive.
the rooms we get have 2 queen size beds and the sofa opens up into a day  bed, so that is perfect for 5.
you will need to present photo id to pick up the packet and complete your check-in.
wednesday, april 8, 2009 many people travel by plane to get to disney.
if you do want to have a dinner  - make reservations early!
on my family's last trip, we didn't keep the kids in mind as  well as we should have.
not to say we won't get to see and do things we as adults will love, but  we will definitely have things planned out much better!
in the end, it really depends on you and who you're vacationing with.
- reservation number - name - arrival and departure dates - your address and phone number - a phone number you can be reached at while traveling - credit card information, if you plan on having a credit card set up for extra room charges, such as internet usage, etc... - special requests, such as room refrigerator or pack n play, etc... a few things you should know: this service began this year and so we haven't used it until now.
source: themagicforless.com share | posted by unbalanced libra at 12:41 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: disney dining monday, april 13, 2009 characters in flight - downtown disney monday, april 13, 2009 yesterday was the grand opening ofcharacters in flight which is located at the downtown disney westside area.
then  you see a young couple, a little girl and a bellhop enter the elevator.
we had a bite to eat at captain cook's here at the polynesian and then  headed to the magic kingdom via monorail.
users can contribute links to articles they find interesting (or vote up existing links) for the benefit of other disney fans.
but we can play it by ear when we are at the park.
hollywood studios - from the courtyard in front of the mickey's hat.
beware;  certain restaurants require two table service credits for a single meal.
once the intro is over the hollywood tower hotel appears around you as it was in it's prime.
posted by unbalanced libra at 4:35 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: disney resorts, wdw basics monday, april 20, 2009 disney world in april and may monday, april 20, 2009 as i mentioned already, i prefer going to disney world between the end of april - the middle of may - first and foremost, because of the weather.
for example, we love thepolynesian resort - it's our favorite!
when it comes to souvenirs you may find yourself wondering  how to get what you buy back to your resort.
and i know for my family, it's the one thing we really look forward to.
honestly, i'd stay there if i really wanted to go to wdw and was on a very tight budget.
we never got to see illuminations, we never got to hollywood studios so we didn't see fireworks there
comments links to this post labels: magic kingdom, rides and attractions friday, april 24, 2009 is the disney dining plan worth it? friday, april 24, 2009  ahhh,  disney dining, it's a love/hate thing for most people, although i'd have to say  more people love it than not
you can step back into this area, get out of the way of the  traffic and have a virtually unobstructed view of the lagoon and the sky
diapers, clothing,  bathroom stuff, bathing suits, towels, etc.. here is what i was going  to do and if you are flying and feel overwhelmed with packing, this may help: pool gear - only pack suits - forget beach towels.
i especially love when they open the doors to the building and you can see the park for a brief moment as you're falling and screaming!
we even get to check in online up to 10 days ahead of arriving at the resort!
these tips will save you so much time and you'll  be able to enjoy your vacation more because you won't have to worry about these
i can't wait to go back!
beware; certain restaurants require two table service credits for a single meal.
from my 85 year old grandma, to my  mom and mil, to cj and then the kids.
so far, the only one that  appeals to me is disney'scoronado springs resort and a suite there, which  allows a maximum of 6 people is $655 a night!
the other reason?epcot's flower and garden festival - it's so gorgeous in epcot this time of year!
share | - you will not be able to change your reservation via the online check-in service.
deluxe dining plan the disney deluxe dining plan includes three table service meals and two snacks per person, per night of your package stay for everyone in the party ages 3 and over.
there are so many things to see and do in wdw as an adult but if you are going with kids remember to plan your trip around them.
don't run yourself and the kids all over the place from dusk 'til dawn.
as the room gets dark, the tv turns on and there in black and white is rod serling!
also, the basic plan allows for a snack every day.
highs are usually mid 80's and lows around mid 60's.
if you have children under the age of 3 they can share a meal with  someone or you can order them their own but again, you pay out of pocket for  that meal.
from right after easter to right before memorial day the crowds aren't bad at all.
lots of times groups such  as school trips, cheeerleading camps, etc...stay there.
it's near animal  kingdom and that's about it.
cj took dante and liv on the merry go
but i thought it may be fun.
share | posted  byunbalanced libra  at 9:49 am 0 comments links to this post labels: wdw  '09 trip planning monday, april 6, 2009 disney vacation planning with kids monday, april 6, 2009  no  matter
please see: ddp updates for 2012 share | posted by unbalanced libra  at  12:19 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: disney dining wednesday, april 22, 2009 dismarks - social bookmarking for disney fans wednesday, april 22,  2009 dismarks is a new social bookmarking site that is set up in a similar  fashion to digg but it is specifically tailored to fans of disney.
comments links to this post labels: general tuesday, april 21, 2009 disney's online resort check-in tuesday, april 21, 2009 guess what i just did?
this year i want to be prepared, so i did a search to find the best places to watch the fireworks and here's what i found: magic kingdom - from the dumbo ride....preferably on dumbo - outside the plaza restaurant -
however, remember, there are fees involved for this.
yes, the thrill of being dropped down, then pulled back up and dropped again, or which ever order the tower decides to send you in, is super exciting.
for more information on the dining plan and the breakdown (math wise) check out:disney's dining plan (that's my opinion) by steve russo update: i wrote about our experience using the ddp again in 2009 >>is the disney dining plan worth it - part 2 now that we are dvc members, we do not feel the need to use the ddp.
- many resorts have special kid events planned.
platinum dining plan this package includes everything in the premium package plus: personalized  pre-arrival itinerary planning; a fireworks cruise; private in-room  babysitting; nightly turn down service; a spa treatment; and a disney photopass  cd.
i wanted everyone to see and do the stuff  they wanted - i wanted us all to have a great time!
this wastes time (duh) and the kids may be overly anxious to go  and see/do things!
this year, the price is $12.49 and once purchased you can get free  refills at identified soft drink locationsat your resort for the length of your  stay.
yes, the thrill of being dropped down, then pulled  back up and dropped again, or which ever order the tower decides to send you  in, is super exciting.
i can say that the online part was easy!
share | posted by unbalanced libra  at 10:30 pm 0 comments  links to this post labels: characters tower of terror photo courtesy of wdwinfo.com the one  ride i can't wait to experience again and the one ride i will most likely being  experiencing alone,the twilight zone tower of terror at disney's hollywood  studios.
this means you need to plan for extra travel time.
no, we're not there yet but disney allows resort guests to check in up to 10 days prior to their arrival date!
we considered flying this trip  but have decided to drive.
we can still stay at the polynesian if fawn (my mil) doesn't come along - but of course, we love having her along.
many have said the food wasn't worth the price - but then again, i guess  it's the entertainment you pay for.
first stop, the doors open and you see a very cool optical  illusion.
trip planning (7) - wdw '10 trip planning (35) - wdw '11 trip planning (9) - wdw basics (5) - wdw fall 2011 trip (2) - wdw spring 2010 trip (6) - wdw summer 2011 trip (3) blog archive blog archive april 2012 (5) march 2012 (7) february 2012 (10) january 2012 (3) november 2011 (8) october 2011 (4) september 2011 (6) august 2011 (1) july 2011 (1) june 2011 (6) may 2011 (1) december 2010 (1) november 2010 (1) october 2010 (2) september 2010 (3) august 2010 (3) july 2010 (4) june 2010 (5) may 2010 (9) april 2010 (10) march 2010 (12) february 2010 (7) january 2010 (6) december 2009 (7) november 2009 (10) october 2009 (4) september 2009 (11) august 2009 (9) july 2009 (11) june 2009 (4) may 2009 (26) april 2009 (18) march 2009 (9) june 2008 (10) may 2008 (27)
other options i have looked at so far: disney villas
so far, the only one that appeals to me is disney'scoronado springs resort and a suite there, which allows a maximum of 6 people is $655 a night!
these areas, staffed by cast  members, feature an activity and/or craft table especially for children.
family www.flickr.com go to unbalancedlibra's photostream dhs grandma with the kids sites i love!
try to stand where in the first row after the street path the cast members tape off that way people's heads aren't directly in front of you - the grand one yacht on bay lake!
there are other rides/attractions that interest us
don't run yourself and the kids all  over the place from dusk 'til dawn.
however, we are also going to try and seeilluminations one night
october 10-13, 2012 animal kingdom lodge staying in kidani village!
gratuity for  the table service meals is not covered in the dining plan and neither are  appetizers so if you want to order an appetizer, you pay for it out of pocket.
the resort will receive your package and hold it for you.
refillable drink mug –is available, for cash, from each disney world  resort.
the kids are usually the best behaved at breakfast  because it's the start of the day and breakfast food is pretty ordinary so even  my pickiest eater loves it.
now you're in the boiler room of the hotel waiting to board a 1917 service elevator.
that being said, we have already begun looking into other options.
prices are $16 for adults and $10  for children ages 3-9.
these areas, staffed by cast members, feature an activity and/or craft table especially for children.
the  layout seems okay: more pictures
you can  schedule a delivery and your order will be delivered to your resort or  sometimes even your room!
cj's mom wants to see  the fairy godmother again, i want to meet sully from monsters inc. and cj wants  to meet mike wazowski.
in germany in front of the norway, good view, all facilities within easy reach  (kringla bakeri, restrooms, water fountain) near japan.
however, since this post was written, many changes have been made.
that sounds like a lot but we love going to breakfasts and  finishing up with wonderful dinners.
this attraction takes you for a flight in a  giant tethered helium filled balloon 400 feet above disney world for a  breathtaking view of the property!
the suites give you all of this  for a maximum of 6 people: queen-size bed pack 'n play playard is available upon request wheelchair-accessible rooms are available views of the parking lot, courtyard or pool the price?
there is also a wine and dine add-on package for  an additional $39.99 per night.
anyone have plans to see disney nature earth this earth day?
staying on site at a disney resort is one of the main  reasons i love to go to disney!
if you do want to have a dinner - make reservations early!
but i'm  sure i'd cry straight through it.
fingers crossed we'll all get to meet our  favorites!
honestly, i'd stay  there if i really wanted to go to wdw and was on a very tight budget.
share | posted by unbalanced libra  at 8:32 am 0 comments links to this  post labels: hollywood studios, rides and attractions wednesday, april 1, 2009 disney itinerary wednesday, april 1, 2009 cj wet to the travel  agent and picked up our disney itinerary!
in addition to these dining  options, this plan also provides the following entertainment opportunities:  preferred fireworks viewing for wishes and illuminations; unlimited golf, boat  rental, fishing excursions; admission to cirque du soleil’s show, la  nouba; access to disney children’s activities centers; admission to a  number of disney’s theme park tours.
i'll let you know  how things go!
this year, even though 6 of us are going (my  mother in law is going to be with us) we're still okay because my youngest is  only 2 and can still sleep comfortably in a pack n play.
so far, what we have planned for our trip seems like enough  but we may take some time to visit other resorts so we can get an idea of where  we'd like to stay next year!
i have never eaten here
epcot (courtesy of allears.net) - on the bridge by mexico - near american adventure - from france - in germany - in front of the norway, good view, all facilities within easy reach (kringla bakeri, restrooms, water fountain) - near japan.
share | posted by unbalanced libra at 12:55 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: wdw '09 trip planning newer posts older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) welcome!
we of course cashed them in and had plenty of snacks for the trip home!
this is where the ride begins!
family disney vacations loading... followers magic kingdom fun daddy with the kids grab a button!
if you decide to check in online, you will need the following information: a welcome folder with your key to the world card will be waiting for you at the designated online check-in area at the resort.
i have recently begun using dismarks so now you will see the icon on my entries.
design by pocket | blogger blog templates
we all  went on pooh's adventure - wyatt screamed through it!
this saves you from having to pack all kinds of extra  diapers, water, snacks for the kids, etc.
share | posted by unbalanced libra  at8:14 am 0 comments links to this post labels: disney dining, epcot wednesday, april 8, 2009 tips for packing for your disney vacation!
in my  experience, this is the maximum amount of people for most rooms at any of the  disney resorts.
you will need to present  photo id to pick up the packet and complete your check-in.
if you're at a theme park and get  lots of stuff or maybe something that is just too big to carry around the rest  of the day, you can have the item sent to your resort for you.
we got baggage tags, a print out of the park hours for april and may, a schedule of special events that will be going on while we are there, information about the polynesian resort and a nifty map.
again, most one bedroom villas are for 4-5 people maximum, then it jumps to a 2 bedroom villa for a maximum of 9 people.
this package entitles you to one bottle of wine per night, redeemable at table service restaurants during your stay.
i'm not sure we'll be seeing any fireworks at hollywood studios - that one is still up for discussion.
send yourself a package - if you need to take diapers, formula, extra  snacks, etc... box it up and send it ups or fedex!
you can also  have the resort ship it to your home
well, this year we will be better prepared and we will know where to find certain characters!
last year we  attended the spirit of aloha luau (which was awesome by the way!)
there's a set of leather chairs which i found out, are genuine renaissance antiques!
featured articles being part of the disney vacation club 5 things to consider before buying bunk beds for kids visiting disney world with the kids - it's a small world is always the winner sponsors disney world packages our next disney trip october 6-10, 2012 bay lake tower!
so you don't have to worry about how to  get everything home!
staying off property in a rental house, while cost effective, is not  something i'd want to do.
so many people say breakfasts are a waste - especially  if you have the meal plan. '
then you go to the library.
however, probably due to laziness, when we booked this year's vacation i did include the dining plan.
here's a breakdown: quick service dining plan the disney quick service dining plan is the newest plan and includes two  quick service meals and two snacks per person, per night of your package stay  for everyone in the party ages 3 and over.
like i said, we prefer breakfasts.
each guest on the disney premium plan receives one table service breakfast, lunch and dinner and two snacks per day.
i thought lunch would be a good  time, so we have reservations at noon.
studios - that one is still up for discussion.
share | posted by unbalanced libra at 10:30 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: characters tower of terror photo courtesy of wdwinfo.com the one ride i can't wait to experience again and the one ride i will most likely being experiencing alone,the twilight zone tower of terror at disney's hollywood studios.
but we are strongly considering staying at the animal kingdom lodge next  year, with asavanna view, of course!
- send yourself a package - if you need to take diapers, formula, extra snacks, etc... box it up and send it ups or fedex!
breakfasts are excellent meals to schedule if you have children.
the door closes and the lights dim.
even though i said never again, we did book this upcoming vacation to include the basic dining plan.
how excited you may be to take that trip to disney, if you travel with  children, keep this in mind:it is all about them
in memory of austin wuennenberg labels - animal kingdom (1) - animal kingdom lodge (3) - bay lake tower (16) - beach club resort (3) - blog related (1) - characters (1) - cruise (3) - disney 2012 plans (4) - disney dining (21) - disney films (2) - disney news (13) - disney planning (3) - disney promotions (1) - disney resorts (10) - downtown disney (4) - dvc (14) - entertainment (3) - epcot (10) - events (10) - flower and garden festival (4) - general (18) - holidays (8) - hollywood studios (2) - magic kingdom (17) - march 2012 trip (9) - polynesian resort (6) - reviews (10) - rides and attractions (7) - saratoga springs resort (1) - videos (17) - wdw '08
the rooms we get have 2 queen size beds and the sofa opens up into a day bed, so that is perfect for 5.
my second choice would be disney'sanimal kingdom lodge villas - savana view of  course.
i'll let you know how things go!
share | posted byunbalanced libra at 9:49 am 0 comments links to this post labels: wdw '09
cj's mom wants to see the fairy godmother again, i want to meet sully from monsters inc. and cj wants to meet mike wazowski.
this will allow you to suggest or vote up that particular entry on dismarks.
olivia wants to meet ariel, dante wants to meet buzz lightyear and wyatt, well he still talks about mickey!
you can schedule a delivery and your order will be delivered to your resort or sometimes even your room!
you are able to enjoy the 360 degree fireworks and get great  photo and video shots!
gratuity for the table service meals is not covered in the dining plan and neither are appetizers so if you want to order an appetizer, you pay for it out of pocket.
sent via blackberry  from t-mobile share | posted by unbalanced libra  at 6:45 am 2  comments links to this post labels: wdw '09 epcot itinerary saturday, april 25, 2009 epcot is my favorite  park.
lots of times groups such as school trips, cheeerleading camps, etc...stay there.
- queen-size bed - double-size sleeper sofa - 2 twin-size sleeper chairs - living room - 2 bathrooms - mini-kitchen - vanity area with sink - table and chairs - all rooms are non-smoking - in-room wall safe - voice mail - internet access (additional fee) - microwave - iron and ironing board - hairdryer - pack 'n play playard is available upon request - wheelchair-accessible rooms are available - views of the parking lot, courtyard or pool
there is also a wine and dine add-on package for an additional $39.99 per night.
the plan also includes one refill¬able drink mug per person.
trip planning saturday, april 4, 2009 where to meet disney characters saturday, april 4, 2009 photo courtesy ofwdwautographs.com have a favorite disney character you hope to meet when you visit disney world?
anywhere around the world showcase (courtesy of allears.net) this year we have a wishes cruise scheduled - i am so so excited for  this!
10:30 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. thursday: 10:30 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. friday:
epcot has kidcot - these fun  stops are "kid stations" located in several future world pavilions  and in all of the world showcase countries.
many have said the food wasn't worth the price - but then again, i guess it's the entertainment you pay for.
weather permitting, the hours of operation are: sunday: 10:30 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. monday: 10:30 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. tuesday: 10:30 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. wednesday: 10:30 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. thursday: 10:30 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. friday: 10:30 a.m. to midnight saturday: 10:30 a.m. to midnight looks like we won't be able to experience  this attraction as wyatt is only 2 - but maybe next year!
sitting at one of the umbrella tables.
i am a huge fan of the polynesian resort but we are strongly considering staying at the animal kingdom lodge next year, with asavanna view, of course!
wyatt met mickey - who is his favorite, although you'd  never know bythis video - lol
we stopped  in nc overnight and reached orlando by about 1pm.
a  few things you should know: you will not be able to change your reservation via the online check-in  service.
we can still stay at the polynesian if fawn (my mil)  doesn't come along - but of course, we love having her along.
breakfasts are  excellent meals to schedule if you have children.
if part of your rest time includes relaxing  by a resort pool, be prepared to have nap time after that!
olivia and dante met ariel and all three kids met buzz!
so you don't have to worry about how to get everything home!
however, when we thought we'd be flying i panicked!
friday, april 24, 2009 ahhh, disney dining, it's a love/hate thing for most people, although i'd have to say more people love it than not
this meal also includes entrée, dessert and soft drink.
again, most one bedroom villas are for 4-5 people maximum, then it  jumps to a 2 bedroom villa for a maximum of 9 people.
the suites give you all of this for a maximum of 6 people: the price?
i'm not sure we'll be seeing any fireworks at hollywood
premium dining plan the disney premium plan offers a complement of dining, recreation, and  entertainment options.
- snacks – may typically be purchased from counter service locations, kiosks or carts throughout walt disney world parks and resorts.
we got  baggage tags, a print out of the park hours for april and may, a schedule of  special events that will be going on while we are there, information about the  polynesian resort and a nifty map.
fawn, dante, livi and i went on goofy's barnstormer - kids loved it.
we also have cj's mom's stuff - since she is flying she has information about the flight and the tag to put on her bag so she can use themagical express when she gets to the airport!
comments links to this post labels: general tuesday, april 21, 2009 disney's online resort check-in tuesday, april 21, 2009 guess what  i just did?
click here to see what we have planned for this trip!
table service meal – a meal from a traditional restaurant or a  buffet.
yes, you will pay to ship the package but it's worth it to
if you want to use 3 quick  service meals in one day, you can - it doesn't matter how you use them but make  sure you use them!
i just checked into the polynesian resort!
since my children are only 6, 3 and 2, character dining is a must.
some table service meals require 2 credits.
of course there are bigger rooms st the polynesian, for $900+ a night which is definitely not in our budget!
the entire experience is exciting, from the moment you step into the hotel lobby - everything is covered by dust and cobwebs.
wilderness or contemporary)!
fingers crossed we'll all get to meet our favorites!
now, you can use these meals as you want.
and we didn't get to stay at the magic kingdom long enough to see wishes.
for a two-bedroom villa with a standard view of the savanna there is an additional adult charge of $25 per adult per night for more than 2 adults - this villa is $700/night!
the plan also includes one refillable drink mug per person.
- schedule down time - yes, plan for it.
my bff and her family  are staying there this may - i am interested in hearing how they like this  resort.
travel snippets and more the best travel blog with destination reviews, photos and travel tips solofriendly.com a solo travel blog bay lake tower grandma and the kids more disney blogs - the disney food blog photo tour and review: the new tutto gusto wine cellar and tutto italia restaurant - disney picture of the day ºoº please take me to disneyland - disney contest blog auto racing in disney rundown - my disney blog rich ross disney studios head steps down - disney family's adventures and plans breakfast at 'ohana - mush's blog hello...is this thing on??
plan for it to arrive the day before or the day of your arrival.
from hollywood blvd.
the plan also includes one  refillable drink mug per person.
source: themagicforless.com posted by unbalanced  libra  at 12:41 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: disney dining monday, april 13, 2009 characters in flight - downtown disney monday, april 13, 2009  yesterday was the grand opening ofcharacters in flight which is located at the  downtown disney westside area.
schedule down time - yes, plan for it.
10:30 a.m. to midnight saturday: 10:30 a.m. to midnight share | posted by unbalanced libra at 9:23 am 0 comments links to this post labels:downtown disney, rides and attractions sunday, april 12, 2009 teppan edo in epcot sunday, april 12, 2009 one meal we have planned is lunch atteppan edo the japanese restaurant in the japan pavilion in epcot.
there's a set  of leather chairs which i found out, are genuine renaissance antiques!
on a typical day we usually have 1-2 table service  meals scheduled.
i'd cry straight through it.
we were always back in our room by 8 pm or so
since we're driving we don't need to be so concerned about packing but the  garden grocer may come in good use, for diapers and such.
these are the countries in world  showcase: mexico these are the rides/attractions on our 'must see' list: soarin' journey into imagination with figment share | posted by  unbalanced libra  at 6:10 pm 1 comments links to this post labels:
i have recently begun using  dismarks so now you will see the icon on my entries.
- disneyland is currently not participating in this service.
don't make them wait any longer than they may have to.
share | posted by unbalanced libra  at  10:14 am 1 comments links to this post labels: disney resorts saturday, april 18, 2009 disney nature - earth saturday, april 18, 2009  oh, i really  really want to see this film and i want my children to see it as well
anywhere around the lagoon
as the room gets  dark, the tv turns on and there in black and white is rod serling!
we even get to check in online up to 10 days ahead of  arriving at the resort!
create an account online with garden grocer and place your order before you get to your resort.
the doors close and the  elevator heads up.
finally, one last option is the family suites at disney's all  star music which is a value resort.
today is animal kingdom and dinner at kona cafe.
disneyland is currently not participating in this service.
these tips will save you so much time and you'll be able to enjoy your vacation more because you won't have to worry about these
we went on the buzz lightyear ride - wyatt screamed through it.
this attraction takes you for a flight in a giant tethered helium filled balloon 400 feet above disney world for a breathtaking view of the property!
share | posted by  unbalanced libra  at 7:16 am 0 comments links to this post labels: events, rides and attractions tuesday, april 14, 2009 disney's dining plan tuesday, april 14, 2009 last trip, after all  was said and done the one thing i said i wouldn't do again was the dining plan.
suddenly the lights in the library turn back on, a door opens and you enter  the "twilight zone."
share | posted by unbalanced libra at 10:14 am 1 comments links to this post labels: disney resorts saturday, april 18, 2009 disney nature - earth saturday, april 18, 2009 oh, i really really want to see this film and i want my children to see it as well
that sounds like a lot but we love going to breakfasts and finishing up with wonderful dinners.
wednesday, april 8, 2009  many people travel by plane to get to disney.
the resorts have a  little shed by the pool that has towels in it.
family disney vacations © 2008.
an example would be the california grill at the contemporary.
we did, however, get to watch wishes from out resort, the polynesian - right there on the beach - and that was fantastic!
great views of the  entire fireworks display the beach at one of the magic kingdom resorts (polynesian, grand floridan,  wilderness lodge, ft. wilderness or contemporary)!
the  doors close, they start to go up, lightning hits the building and they vanish.
we also have cj's mom's stuff -  since she is flying she has information about the flight and the tag to put on  her bag so she can use themagical express when she gets to the airport!
we took the boat launch back to the polynesian and got to see wishes from the boat!
what is included is a soft drink and dessert and this is great if you don't  want wine, beer or a mixed drink with your dinnerand you usually order dessert.
most villas are  for 4 or 5 people, the next one up is for a maximum of 9 people and that is a 2  bedroom villa at $630/night!
decide which rides and attractions you want to see before you go - this is  another obvious one but so many people, including us on our last last trip, get  to a park and then stand there looking at the park map, trying to decide where  to go first.
for a two-bedroom villa  with a standard view of the savanna there is an additional adult charge of $25  per adult per night for more than 2 adults - this villa is $700/night!
the kids are usually the best behaved at breakfast because it's the start of the day and breakfast food is pretty ordinary so even my pickiest eater loves it.
- standing right in front of the crossroads.
the kids are usually in good spirits because it's the beginning of the day.
any later than that  and kids may be over tired and overstimulated from the day's events.
first stop, the doors open and you see a very cool optical illusion.
photos courtesy of wdwinfo.com posted by unbalanced  libra  at 12:55 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: epcot, events,  flower and garden festival sunday, april 19, 2009 disney vacations for 5 or more sunday, april 19, 2009  at this  moment, we are a family of 5 - me, cj, and the 3 kids ages 2, 3 and 6.
saga (33) - wdw '09 (44) - wdw '09
my second choice would be disney'sanimal kingdom lodge villas - savana view of course.
that being said, is it really beneficial  for us to purchase the dining plan?
if you have children under the age of 3 they can share a meal with someone or you can order them their own but again, you pay out of pocket for that meal.
if part of your rest time includes relaxing by a resort pool, be prepared to have nap time after that!
this wastes time (duh) and the kids may be overly anxious to go and see/do things!
- refillable drink mug –is available, for cash, from each disney world resort.
search this blog be a fan!
it's also a loud and crowded resort, of course - it's cheap.
i am just so excited!
with that being said, breakfast is usually the  cheapest meal of the day so when we use the dining plan and schedule a lot of  breakfasts, we aren'treally getting our money's worth.
travel with the magic blogs i love!
it didn't work out so great.
this  service began this year and so we haven't used it until now.
epcot magic kingdom itinerary rides and attractions we want to experience at the magic kingdom: these are on our 'must see' list for this year.
diapers, clothing, bathroom stuff, bathing suits, towels, etc.. here is what i was going to do and if you are flying and feel overwhelmed with packing, this may help: - pool gear - only pack suits - forget beach towels.
the resorts have a little shed by the pool that has towels in it.
so, what happened with us last trip was that every meal we were still paying for something, a child's meal, an appetizer, a drink and/or the gratuity so it didn't really feel as though we were getting a deal.
dining plan the disney dining plan includes one quick service meal, one snack, and one  table service meal per person, per night of your package stay for everyone in  the party ages 3 and over.
kids become very  tired swimming even for only an hour.
- from the monorail as it circles the seven seas lagoon.
that's great if you don't have kids!
thanks to wdwautographs.com we now have a good idea where to look for certain characters and when!
the grand one yacht on bay lake!
here's a mini glossary: now, just what do you get with each plan?
share | posted by  unbalanced libra  at 12:22 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: wdw  '09
olivia wants to meet ariel, dante wants to meet buzz  lightyear and wyatt, well he still talks about mickey!
i am a huge fan of the polynesian  resort
finally, one last option is the family suites at disney's all star music which is a value resort.
this ride is exhilirating from beginning to end...and a bit spooky!
the entire experience is exciting, from the moment you step  into the hotel lobby - everything is covered by dust and cobwebs.
on the bridge by mexico near american adventure from france
we could book 2 rooms at the polynesian, but the 2 rooms would equal close to over $800 a night anyway, so that is out!
now, just what do you get with each plan?
he gives  this unique introduction for that night's episode.
here are a few tips, that may seem like common sense but it's  surprising how many people don't think of them!
we never got to  see illuminations, we never got to hollywood studios so we didn't see fireworks  there
some examples  of eligible snack options would include: a frozen ice-cream, a fruit bar, a bag  of chips, a 20 oz. bottle of coke or a 20 oz. bottle of water.
we booked our vacation with aaa - my travel agent's name is travis flexer and he is wonderful.
well, first of all, the location.
my bff and her family are staying there this may - i am interested in hearing how they like this resort.
share | posted by unbalanced  libra  at 12:55 pm 0 comments links to this post labels: wdw '09 trip  planning newer posts older posts home subscribe to: posts  (atom)
this post labels: hollywood studios, rides and attractions wednesday, april 1, 2009 disney itinerary wednesday, april 1, 2009 cj wet to the travel agent and picked up our disney itinerary!
share | posted by unbalanced libra  at 9:23 am 0 comments links to this post labels:downtown disney, rides and attractions sunday, april 12, 2009 teppan edo in epcot sunday, april 12, 2009  one meal we have  planned is lunch atteppan edo the japanese restaurant in the japan pavilion in  epcot.