i guess i should write a post about that and explain a bit more about what i’m up to, and what this whole klout thing is about anyway, but the brief of it is i’m using my klout to better represent crochet.
laurie has this to say: “for the love of all that is fuzzy do not…and i repeat…do not undersell your work!!
all my cameos sold at the last couple shows.
1 comment filed under editorial, nablopomo tagged as baby steps, goals, prescott, snow, success today was well spent at a good yarn taking a beginning kumihimo class from jeannie.
what is right for a living wage?
which is good, because i lose paper lists.
i should have used gloves though.
there are more equally effective ways up the same mountain than just one.
some people may not experience this.
when you’re having trouble seeing things straight, it is also important to keep in mind that although emotional reality is real and itdoes give us valuable information, that emotional reality and factual reality are not generally the same.
but this one time, one of them was quicker than lightning.
kumihimo is the japanese term and method for braiding.
and my original supplier is no longer supplying.
put a bunch of  brown recluses together in a jar and soon there is only one left alive.
i am not a doctor, and any decision you make is yours and yours alone.
since the bazaar too often has little of interest to teens, and more of interest to the younger kids, i’m happy to oblige hunting down some steam punk/goth rock/pirate stuff for them.
i poured off the liquid already.
in my mind, this type of mentality is the very source of division and stagnation.
neither is security, electricity or many other expenses people might not think of.
some are there because they were die-hard makers to begin with.
for now, i’ll conduct myself ethically, pursue my passion with a pure heart.
if you’re an expert in marriage, why ever consider counseling or a “marriage building” event?
i hope they help you too.
frozen fruit does not.
however, stress requires a lot of energy and recovery time.
though similar, each hat is made with different yarns, different hooks and different stitches to achieve the same essential look.
3) know your facts – articles, reports and claims promoted arbitrarily as fact and w/o references or proof.
they are an aberrant crochet exclusive design.
omg i’m jealous, because i’m disqualified from this giveaway.
i’ve been in a horrible car wreck that i was lucky to walk away from.
not much different from settling the wild west.
in analysis, i think my problem was complicated by drought weathered tires and the fact that i have seen snow less times in my life than i have fingers.
today is run around crazy and do all the laundry day so there’s plenty of clothes for everyone.
but i did figure out that if i toss in the strawberries and other frozen fruit in alone, before adding spinach or anything else, it will powder them nicely andthen i can easily add my yogurt and greens.
it’s not quite our anniversary, but it’s close and we’ll be celebrating 16 years.
this pretty dish needs washing, but will look beautiful full of peppermints and ribbon candy!
i mean seriously, when top crochet designers are down as experts in hotels, instead of the fiber fests they went to and there’s nothing about crochet on their klout profile, yeah, it needs some help.
you don’t have to be a naturally great communicator, just at least try!
i never remember the brand name for that thing and i’m always losing it.
ever since reading forbes’ article about the potential costs caused bydigital hoarding, i’ve looked at collecting a whole new way.
but more on that later.
don’t take it unless you are going to get at least 6 hours of sleep.
also, no computer use during this time is also best, as the whole light issue is specific to your eyes.
amazon’s universal wish list never quite did that for me.
still waiting on the right sized cameos for the smaller frame though.
an approach to the issue i haven’t really heard much about and a subject for a different conversation.
there’s nothing worthwhile an agent could ever tell me.”
it applies to anything in life, health or business.
everyone knows that whipped cream is a requirement for pumpkin pie on thanksgiving.
truth be told, i’ve been through a lot of them.
i’m pretty pleased with them!
remember arachnophobia?
and thanks to facebook, three childhood girlfriends and i are planning a slumber party during winter break!
apples contain a substance better than coffee for keeping you alert.
that being said, some people benefit from a simple glass of milk before bed.
2 comments filed under nablopomo, random thoughts, vintage tagged as jewelry, thrift, vintage what is the true cost of handmade items at a show?
beading adds a nice element to the spiral braid.
i finally joined because i kept seeing referral hits on my blog from pinterest and i’m pretty sure at least one pattern sale this month originated from that direction as well.
so i did it the slow way – trimmed around, stepped back to look, placed chairs, stepped back to look, trimmed some more, tried to reach here and there, until it looked ok.
i turned over a rock in my backyard.
after all, to their little eyes, i was just sitting there staring at a brightly lit box.
leave a comment filed under business, editorial, nablopomo lightly sweetened butter, that was supposed to be whipped cream.
from a wishlist standpoint, the easy photo-with-link system works.
6 comments filed under nablopomo, random thoughts nablopomo is getting close to an end!
i'm not sure what i want to do with this just yet, but i definitely wanted to give it a home!
in many jobs, you get paid a set wage + benefits.
why should an expert be paid the same as a beginner?
it was an old one – big and quick.
in it he explains a little known clause in pinterest’s user agreement that gives them the right to actually sell any image uploaded to their service.
details were obvious to me  in an instant from any distance.
and so far i’ve managed to stay on track!
and sometime before we leave, i’ll be seeing about dropping bypeaceful prairie alpaca ranch to see wendy.
anything lori doesn’t choose will go into my stash of stuff to use with another project.
“have you talked to a real estate agent?
and here was a  healthy one with strong markings – racing up my bare arm.
never was into teddy bears, me.
we call these squiggle hats, named by my daughter when she was little.
as someone who tends to communicate fairly well, others often come to me with their frustrations in dealing with someone else.
we should celebrate that wonder and make use of individual expertise by adding the insight and value of others to our lives and teams.
i haven't had ribbon candy in years!
however, i like the all fruit kind and i don’t water them down with ice.
mainly, there was a lot of trimming and raking to be done.
every week, killing every one, because their numbers were growing  and the docile native wood spiders were nearly gone.
they could really help you know what you need to do and talk to you about the market right now,” i said.
that’s where i found my gorgeous blue dichroic glass necklace that everyone loves.
case in point: at a local juried show a few years ago, i had a woman come into my booth, handle/look at all my goods, ask questions, acted like she wanted to buy, let me talk to her about my hooks and methods, etc..
if you liked this article, you might also like: when artists hear “i can make that.“ go ahead and click a link below to “share this.”
don’t eat them before bed.
there’s also travel time, packing materials and postage.
if an item requires $30 of materials and takes 4 hours to make, you have at minimum a $59 item, before taxes.
this is the basic beginner's small kumihimo kit, long with my yatsu umi hanging out the backside.
and the statement rings so true.
sometimes, those pantsdo make you look fat and sometimes you’re dead wrong.
even people receiving training to flip burgers get at least minimum wage.
two of the four buttons you see pictured are vintage buttons from my grandmother’s stash.
plus there’s the value of other elements, like antique buttons or sterling silver findings.
this doesn’t just plague leadership roles.
this seems logical under normal driving conditions, but here i got stuck.
lorraine, tell us – how does it feel to be such a winner?
i drop by and see them every time we come.
been making them since i got out of college and could buy my first machine.
like that stitch guide i like but keep misplacing.
oh how i wanted to be there right then!
7) be responsible – own and take credit for mistakes as much as successes.
ever know someone who is an expert in everything, even in fields they’ve never touched?
so if it’s the wrong words, or just too many, the problem is the same.
danced back and then pounced and crushed it under my shoe.
so i don’t charge very much.”
not only is it poor form at shows, but when you do it, you give people permission to essentially cut your pay!
i recommend you search some medical sites about melatonin to give you more information as well.
besides, i have this whole project on klout for tweeps and peeps in the crochet world.
i had to work from home to make it work out to be at home with my kids.
we ate at prescott brewing company tonight.
i want to figure out how to copy this.”
i’ve worked hard, overcome a lot and never want to repeat that experience, for me or for anyone else.
i wonder how many experts have worked in a building practically owned by a recluse “clan.”
without it, he has a harder time putting his thought process in order or “getting it” because he has no mental black-board to “see” things in his mind.
when i saw that comedy, i immediately identified with that detail.
in the end, you must preserve yourself and others.
i have my list everywhere i go!
you are not committed to an action if the follow-through turns out not to be in your best interest, or not in the best interest of others.
a night or two of camping have helped reset my internal clock.
which is actually harder on the machines.
i even had a comforting picture in my head of sitting in front of the fire with hot tea and relaxing.
also have to be sure and go by thearts prescott gallery coop.
for beginner grade work.
they tell me the cones are aging.
think about the fees you would pay a graphic artist when you don’t have a clear idea of what you want.
copyright protection is important.
i was taxed out of my $2.13 an hour each week as if it were twice that, because it’s assumed i would make up the other half of minimum wage on tips.
but, now i’m getting back on my feet just in time for the holidays.
i hope you enjoyed the fun and exploration of the crochet goodness from our sister-in-hook stephanie toppin!
the timber flipped and it was on me in the same instant.
1 comment filed under health, nablopomo tagged as health, melatonin, nablopomo, sleep effective communication is the key to everything.
stay away from pedestrians (i marveled at the amount of people walking around cars that are slip-sliding in the ice) and be still if they come near you.
eventually, all these things inevitably led to me to the driveway at my hotel, which at an incline had me stuck again for a bit, and then on into a parking space way in the back of the lot.
i also found two new lacy frames i really like that are reproductions of antique frames.
it's me and obey crochet!
maybe there’s a lesson in all that, a role she needs to play, a purpose to fulfill.
as quickly as it was on, i swiped my hand down my arm and flung it into the grass away from me.
and it’s so prevalent in politics (what i call the new religion) today.
but i know none of these things.
and by then, of course, i’d learned to cope with my circumstances – by hunting them.
usually, rather exclusive juried shows include better vendors and behavior than that.
8 ) armchair quarterbacks – those who sign up to volunteer, can’t be reached when it’s time to work, and then complain about how things were done.
after all, prescott is arizona’s “christmas city.”
think about it and share your thoughts in the comments.
and it’s a bit of a poor show for someone to pin a seller’s item with a blatant stated intention of copying.
if you’re an expert in business, why consult a coach?
they are extremely resistant to all poisons, except  their own.
the last lights you leave on should be yellow tone or even candle-light, avoid blue tone like the daylight bulbs you find.
we just got in tonight and it started to snow!
and there was a time before that when it might have been the back yard fence i guess.
and i haven’t ventured out to maintain anything back there in months.
i was finally moving, and that baby step was solved.
i was the only one in the family who not only didn’t wear glasses, but had eyes that tested better than the norm.
a local driver with more experience and better equipment might truly have been fine driving out there, buti should have thought better and not gone out in the weather.
and by catching them in jars in case someone would  finally notice not only the markings, but the numbers.
or my way is the only way.
other baby steps towards getting home safely were also required.
though hopefully we will manage to keep it a relatively free world for generations to come.
pretty close color match, isn't it?
join 1,941 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
if you’re an expert in education, why explore new ways to reach a struggling student or improve the educational experience for everyone?
(if you don’t want yours, i’ll take it!)
gracious and community oriented, this store is one of the most crochet friendly yarn stores i’ve ever shopped.
though that makes them sound friendlier to family than they really are.
very surreal experience, but it definitely taught me something.
i don’t know for sure what i think of it.
if i’m not careful, i can be a talker.
on the one hand, i value good tools.
how much do you make an hour for your expertise?
i am sent photos over the internet nearly every day in one inspirational power point presentation or another means.
everyone desires respect and professional courtesy.
i'm thinking i might take off the split ring and instead turn this into an offset necklace with a decorative clasp.
you can create a board there to pin your favorite photos of daleks and actors, the electronic screwdriver you want for christmas and even thetardis kindle cover i pinned and later received for valentine’s day (my hubby is the best!).
pinterest even helped me get the tardis kindle cover i wanted, originally pinned by a friend of mine.
i didn’t have ready made whipped cream, so i whipped out the carton of heavy whipping cream i keep on reserve for chocolate ganache and whipped up a batch.
when he can verbalize thoughts as they take form, the quality of his work is amazingly better, because his brain is wired that way.
many folks might remember though, this kind of thing isn’t the first time new technology caused copyright concerns.
after all, life is always about the overcoming.
i just can’t fathom taking the time away from my customers and booth during a show to do that to someone else.
i work long hours in the volunteer world where you often learn a person’s true caliber.
sporting her evil little smirk.
umm, yes i found some goodies to buy in the box too.
check out yesterday’s discussion on flickr here.
got a plan in the works while i’m here this year.
in my experience, many may covet, but few truly act.
which is your favorite?
pointing out that flaw you want to forget, making known your weaknesses, revealing who you really are.
light destroys melatonin in the body, especially the blue spectrum (though serotonin levels do increase during light exposure – sunlight being best).
i wonder what the trickle down is here?
i threw on my hazards and looked for a safe place with enough space to safely turn around.
perhaps even you’ve been a nellie yourself.
my sleep issues got worse after having kids and nursing and it took awhile to get my sleep cycles corrected.
well, welcome back my crochet friends!
avoid alcohol for awhile, consider milk-thistle to support liver health.
do not leave a candle burning while you sleep.
do i think it’s a big deal?
or so i thought until i saw the main road.
happy december everyone!
materials + time x skill = $$….
manyetsy sellers are included in this lot.
i never touch them, even when dead.
and  the loppers we have are bent, so their work wasn’t the finest nor  quickest, nor for that matter, painless.
if you have not dreamed in a while (as is the case for many exhausted people), the first few nights you will likely have a rush of wild dreams as your psyche downloads.
so i’m researching a fold-up antique table i found at goodwill for $3.99.
i’ve also found it’s a great way to find more things in genres i love, like dr. who, steam punk, etc.. the kind of things that pretty much it takes one to pass it on to find, but googling might not discover.
i hate forgetting things.
the internet is still a new frontier and as more people get on and learn how to make use of it and carve a new world out of it, the more needed tweaks and corrections will be discovered.
but even so, the process is very,  very quick.
it’s easy to habitually ignore whatever she has to say.
how do i get around that?
it’s been an interesting path of discovery for us at home and i’ve learned to tailor my communication for others as a result.
completely darken your room.
and take it an hour before you want to go to bed.
4 comments filed under 'tis the season, artist information & notes, crochet community, crochet education tagged as az, crochet, kumihimo, lys, prescott, yarn all that frosty grey on my hat and giant scarf is snow!
you might check it out.
however, as you already know, i don’t like adding ice.
and in spite of their reclusive  nature, when disturbed they have no fear.
one of my fellow classmates mentioned wanting to make some for decorating christmas presents.
plus we should be able to catch the city’s lighting of the courthouse on saturday.
they do not hold back.
and there were many timbers lined in front of  dad’s wood-shop and storage shed for parking.
(i’m allergic to many medications, so these are avenues my doctors have helped me find to do.)
honestly, sometimes we need to shut up and let a picture say a 1000 words or let someone get a literal handle on something.
as easily today as a quarter of a century ago.
baby steps are the backbone of any successful outcome.
and maybe she’s not as bad as you think.
as quickly as it was on, i swiped my hand down my arm and flung it into the  grass away from me.
now that you’ve read all this and taken stock, how much are you worth?
the larger model might be less finicky.
no sugar, caffeine or apples too close to bed.
and it pretty much rejects assistance altogether.
getting unstuck from any situation requires focus and patience.
ok, that’s not really the purpose of our visit, but i have enjoyed the opportunity to none-the-less.
confrontation is not a dirty word.
stupid ninja, i wanted whipped cream for my pie and now i don’t have any at all.
if any cars around me started to skid, i was a sitting duck.
and learned to love to be hated .”
so with the encouragement to take a day and have a healthy rant… here are my top eight things that tick me off.
make sure you have plenty of time to sleep when you first start taking melatonin
he has an unusual visual impairment with a kind of blend of parallax and monocular vision (and medical terms i find difficult to describe).
you don’t flip a timber slowly when you know it’s the home of an average of 4-6 recluses each,that you can see on the outside.
so you should only get paid for what youdon’t derive a sense of satisfaction from?
what a strange circumstance for me.
vintage finds from today!
makes for interesting discussion though.
thank you all for participating and it was so awesome to meet and connect with more crochet friends!
the streets are iced.
i hear  there are all sorts of trimming rules for the health of your bushes and trees,
there is a book that i love called: how to get your point across in 30 seconds or less, by milo frank.
they will also get random obey crochet buttons and rub on tats.
and by then, of course, i’d  learned to cope with my circumstances – by hunting them.
there’s something to be said for a skill that has been honed over time.
details were obvious to me in an instant from any distance.
though i’m not a true antique collector, it’s hard to resist saving a quaint old treasure to find it’s story.
followed up in her article last year “at what price?”
there are many different types, but we learned a basicyatsu umi, or 8-strand round braid.
first baby step, get out of that spot.
and i spent over a year in physical therapy regaining strength in my left arm and hand as a result + years of pain.
start braking half a block away from stop lights and flash your brakes so those around you can see you and compensate in case you skid.
and i still test  better than 20/20.
why do anything to push your current boundaries?
this mug is from the mcdonald's sports series from 1977.
not old like the big ones back home.
there are times the drama really ticks me off.
and please look for an email asking for your mailing address so stephanie can ship your signed obey crochet drawing to you!
for the two of us!“ come on down lorraine and claim your prize.
baby goal: avoid stopping since i seem to get stuck when i do.
just here in austin, there are shows that range from $40 a table to over $3000.
a well stocked pantry keeps you fed.
i receive a lot of hits from google image searches and i use image searches myself to find specific products i’m looking for.
think you’re better than nellie?
your movement must be  quick and you barely touch the timber when you execute.
first of all, this giveaway is uniquely open to usa as well as international crochet fans!
my tires seem to have good tread, but we had 6 weeks of over 100 degree weather this year in austin and it probably doesn’t make it easy on the tires when it comes to maneuvering in snow, nor do i have 4-wheel drive.
these flowers are made of a lighter weight yarn, from a totally different company.
(i’ve never heard a man say something like this, btw.)
that one person who gets under your skin, who acts as a challenge to you.
not to mention a project my brother
“no,” she said, “i already know everything i need to know about my house and this neighborhood.
i was a poet and didn’t know it!
there is nothing else outside of that.
that nasty ‘ol nellie oleson!
or something nicer like silk or cashmere or even a microfiber?
and only a week ago, the wall street journal seems to agree.
now that you’re following obey crochet’s blog, not only will you be in the know about anything that comes up obey crochet,you can also shop her store at cafepress!
12 comments filed under crochet, crochet community, crochet education, doing the show circuit tagged as crochet, pricing if you like what you read, please comment, subscribe and share with friends!
sure enough, there was the tunnel in the groove and the tell-tale hunched body with the sand-dollar shaped back and famous “fiddle” back shape.
think you’re really something?
sigh, those were the days.
no one likes to feel victimized.
i feel like i’m forgetting something though.
that would also include those who sign up, can’t be reached when it’s time to work, and then take credit for being there when they weren’t, knowing people they don’t, doing things they didn’t and including it on a resume or in a job interview.
i am not eternal enough to contain all the truth and insight of the universe.
and pinterest is no exception.
when she’s right, she’s right.
i truly believe that 2012 is just simply going to be outstanding!
but it can also be a weakness.
not bad for a life lesson, huh?
of any one obey crochet drawing that you love!
here are some photos of my yatsu umi.
overall, i see the pinterest service as kind of a reorganized google image collection.
be polite, but do not waste your time on them.
her character is able to be so easily understood because there is always someone who plays this part in each of our lives.
they will be quite fun to work with and i know my daughter’s friends will be interested at the school bazaar coming up.
because the quality of labor is much different.
2) know your limits – those who refuse assistance when they are running behind, “no i’ve got it” and then ultimately fail the deadline or project altogether when it could have been fixed if they had accepted help (or delegation) when offered.
however, it put me still going (slowly) in the wrong direction.
i find his daily blogs to be thought provoking and succinct.
i know you know how it is!
add your cream, a tad bit of honey for sweetener and blend until it looks right.
and i think maybe ya’ll will want to get to know each other too.
those people are out there and being in public puts you in their path.
flickr, a photo hosting service, is also listening and jumping in to protect their users.
i’m an expert in crochet.
plus, i came across an estate collection of gothic skull cameo pieces from an old jewelry store that i scarfed up too.
really, it’s not all about you.
i see it for my own kids.
and triggers can be very individual and personal.
i put this out there in case it might help others find a direction in solving this problem.
but beyond that, the truth is that some people retain and communicate best by hearing their own thoughts expressed in audio.
i’m playing around with lighting, with flash and without flash, trying to get the purples to really come out.
i burnt out three of them.
my hands are very sore.
and for more reasons than just products and inventions.
the old ones were the only ones who managed to survive my jars.
i can’t help but ponder these things when i see people staring at their phones while a child goes unnoticed nearby.
(i’m all for practical and the least amount of work.)
think about it and add to the discussion in the comments!
as i uncovered stones and timbers while removing old leaves, various  spiders scurried about.
it was some time before i stopped trembling.
seriously, if you reach the summit and find that someone else climbed up a different way, would you shove them off the mountain top for not doing it the “right” way?
if you’ve never done custom work before, this can give you an idea of what it’s like, at least for me.
on the other side, leaders who don’t know how to deal with a situation or person, so they literally hide from them.
getting unstuck requires space to work.
folks crammed into the downtown area of prescott for the parade and other christmas activities this weekend.
and the class proved to me what i suspected… kumihimo might just be the ultimate stash buster.
however, i wish to entertain with a cook  out, and to clean things up.
i’ve never had a green  thumb – in fact it’s generally what i’d consider brown.
if you’re an expert in parenting, why read books on the subject?
you don’t flip a timber slowly when you know  it’s the home of an average of 4-6 recluses each,that you can see on  the outside.
this attitude in life does not operate from a place of strength.
this is the first time i’ve used it for whipped cream.
though i’m not a huge pinner yet, overall i think pinterest can be a huge benefit to people who’d like to be discovered and i hope it stays.
everything in life is pretty much a two edge sword.
and the wars i fought against the brown recluse  invasion there.
so maybe there’s a cap there somewhere on what kind of materials you expect to use for what items and the price range most of your customers will fall into?
the fact is, nellie has an unabashed way of testing you and holding up the mirror so you can really see yourself.
our immune system will successfully deal with many things until we sacrifice sleep, diet and sunlight.
and once you have that, stick with it and do not let buyers bargain with you.
when they are surprised like this, they hunch and hesitate like a cat before they spring or run.
and his mom (or babysitter?) was leaning on a telephone pole nearby, with her phone in her hand.
it’s my guess that the sheer numbers of recluses at the shop caused  them to be less reclusive than “experts” claim them to be.
5) communicate – leaders who fail to communicate and then suddenly freak-out and look for the nearest scape-goat.
the owner voiced many concerns over the idea and work she wasn’t sure might need to be done or even the paperwork involved.
however, i think the truth is that with or without pinterest, the copy-cats are there doing their thing anyway.
it’s our pleasure to bring this crochet unique giveaway to you, my fellow crochet lover!
most everyone else stopped with a normal sized key chain, but since i was camping out for part of the day anyway, i kept going until i had no more threads left to work with!
but even so, the process is very, very quick.
so when you’re pricing, you have a lot to consider for variables.
so that’s a jump in cost for me.
other jobs, like waiting tables, are often half of minimum wage with the expectation that you will make up the rest in tips.
flipping a timber – you had to be quick  – and i was an  expert by then.
a lot of words aren’t necessary when a picture paints a thousand words.
what if you decide not to charge minimum wage?
melatonin is created from serotonin, so if you don’t have enough of one, you likely don’t have enough of the other.
have you talked to that teacher/volunteer/manager/parent/business/peer that you have a suggestion/concern/issue with?
you have the cost of materials as overhead.
you can fill out that form here.
i know we can totally appreciate their plight.
these are some thoughts that have helped me in both my professional and personal communications, as well as marketing.
seems they’re listening and they’ve created a code you can put on your website to disable pinning .
if i’m doing custom orders and find myself driving all over town from yarn shop to yarn shop trying to find what will make my customer happy, it becomes an expense that has to be accounted for, because they want a custom item and not something i have ready to go.
that would go for volunteers/employees too.
a cute little locket in the shape of an envelope.
i attempted a few times to continue to make that u-turn, but physics proved that it was not going to work for me as long as traffic continued the way it was.
i was the only one in the family who not only didn’t wear glasses,  but had eyes that tested better than the norm.
the image  has been frozen with me ever since.
focus on the right now, so you can get to the future.
for but an instant, memories flood back to me of flipping timbers outside the wood shop, hunting for the spiders and egg sacks i knew would be there.
i hear there are all sorts of trimming rules for the health of your bushes and trees, but i know none of these things.
while you’re at it, pray for everyone.
you’re not always rosy.
my daughter was kind enough to model them for me.
you can find my spider web crochet pattern on ravelry here:  http://www.ravelry.com/patterns/library/halloween-spider-web—a-variable-pattern-from-aberrant-crochet .
she also wanted a gold accent for the flower motif and so now we’re at the point of deciding which variation is best.
locals i talked to were saying, “oh, this snow is nothing.
it’s a favorite of ours, along with their christmas ale.
for an expansion on this idea, check out derek sivers’ video “ hell
if you take credit cards, you have expenses there as well.
here are three tools i’ve found useful to help me stay trim in my communications and remain effective in the long run.
i’m not sure what i expect, especially as someone who values her tools, and as someone who probably doesn’t really know what was going on.
btw, you can view my pinterest boards here.
a small food processor will help you whip up the good stuff in no time without pulling out your blender and all the clean up.
these flowers are made of the heavier weight yarn like the original.
i didn’t think to include that at the first publishing, but hey – i’m telling you now.
i also love debra’s “buck a ball” community donation project.
as if it knew exactly what i was doing and exactly what would happen.
owners can also file copyright infringement complaints directly with pinterest to have pins taken down.
texting, surfing, i don’t know, but she was not talking.
this will give my customer a choice as far as color saturation.
you’re not always right.
everything’s already out there on google and coming up in searches.
staring at a computer screen is staring right into a source of light.
i met a lady from south africa today who said she’d heard so much about this store she just had to come.
i don’t generally believe in killing spiders, save the dangerous ones.
2 comments filed under editorial, nablopomo, random thoughts i was struck by a scene in my neighborhood earlier today.
remember arachnophobia?  the demon soldier spider predicting every  move?
this is going to be my new coffee mug!
and fight as i did, i finally caught it too.
6) listen – not reading emails/reports even when they are simple bullet points and then having to email/call them again and again.
the other two are new buttons.
it was an awesome question with a lot of answers.
it’s not a requirement to win the obey crochet giveaway, but certainly, if you’d like me to follow back and i don’t already, i’d love to!
old craftsmanship for sure.
as a result, it was possible that others might not give me the room needed should my truck fishtail or should my u-turn not work out as well as i hoped.
while hubby’s taking care of work tomorrow, i’m scheduled to take a kumihimo class at the local yarn store a good yarn.
especially in today’s fast paced world, time is precious, your time is valuable.
making decisions based solely on feelings is not a balanced place to operate from.
the invention of the copy-machine came first.
all too often, people avoid confrontation, so nothing is ever addressed.
however, my main focus needed to be on the first problem, getting unstuck from the ice and out of the center lane with traffic coming at me from both directions.
there does seem to be some action being taken for folks who don’t want their items to be pinned.
also there’s a selection of 4 petal flowers and 5 petal flowers.
and trust me, you’ll covet this one!
the grand ‘rents are staying with the kids back home, holding down the fort and giving us this time together.
comments filed under artist information & notes, crochet, crochet community, giveaway tagged as crochet, giveaway, obey, obey crochet, prize, win pretty evening view out the hotel window.
there is wisdom and growth at the center of many approaches and views.
i have to thank facebook for making it possible to bring people i love back into my life.
what other dysfunctional attitudes about communication can you think of?
i’m not really talking about taking a bead and sticking it on an ear wire.
and i don’t think i’m the only crocheter who would.
just because a hat you find at walmart cost $5 doesn’t mean it has a comparable amount of fiber in it to something handmade.
along with several small food choppers and blenders.
as i look ahead to what’s left of the year, christmas is not far away now and i have a trip, custom orders, more shows and school fundraiser stuff to keep up with.
if you are in their territory, all bets are off.
and if you do, you will have no trouble with it.
those who are more concerned with “winning” an argument than taking care of a customer.
i might have been fine should i have been the only person on the road.
even witnessed it to my surprise in the field of mathematics.
probiotics will help iron that out.
when the need arises, i usually whip up little batches of whipped cream with one of my small food processors.
remember that people communicate (and retain) information best in three main ways: audio, visual and kinetic.
you know you want to! : )
you will find mugs, t-shirts and totes of hooky goodness!
as it is with most social things, i first heard about pinterest from a friend.
if you haven’t met obey crochet just yet, please do so by visitingmy interview with her here!
as it was, though it seemed logical, my initial idea was too risky and would put both my life and the lives of others in danger.
that can be a lot of time, especially if they don’t really know what they want or it’s difficult to secure!
this touches an arena that i feel rather passionately about.
she had examples of several made from a variety of yarns, thick and thin, including pigtail-eyelash.
thank god someone else can be an expert in car repair and plumbing for me!
upon tasting, though, hubby didn’t feel it was sweet enough.
and it requires me to take time off from my regular business and work only for them until they get what they want.
this is the time of year when warm things are in demand!
by knowing their habits and every move.
they could understand someone staring at it.
now they can do it more openly and quietly by text.
i did however find similar and a mauve design i like pretty well.
many times they hope i will intercede for them.
so back to whipped cream.
after scraping some of the snow off.
consider that custom handmade should not be much different.
but enticed by the fresh air and clear skies, i headed outdoors to work on my back yard.
one lucky winner will receive a free, signed… (did you see that?
today i eye the quite small recluse under my stone.
i’m slow to adding to my pins and follows, as i try to do so with purpose.
usually you get one or two proofs and that’s it.
my grandma dot used to keep a dish of ribbon candy every year during the holidays.
today was warm and beautiful outdoors.
saturday afternoon i’m catching up with yarnies at method coffee.
though it does take time to assemble, it’s small and not considered skilled labor.
if you haven’t heard of it,remember the milk is a handy app that allows you to create multiple lists.
so mine’s actually long enough for a necklace now.
my yatsu umi is long enough to make a necklace!
all in all, i look forward to a pleasant visit and lots of photos and reporting.
also, low levels of serotonin are associated with increased carbohydrate cravings, depression, heightened sensitivity to pain, and troubled sleep patterns.
nor are a myriad of other credentials alike.
she was even old enough to be my mom!
there is no such thing as just one solution!
i’m thankful for the experts in my life.
and i haven’t ventured out to maintain  anything back there in months.
and thanks again to everyone for keeping your hook in gear and sharing the crochet love!
i love me my food processors!
melatonin does not make you sleep per se, it will improve the quality of your sleep, help you get to that deeper rem and help regulate your internal clock again.
you may have to tweak your prices or process a bit here and there.
more time is wasted trying to undo assumptions made about non-existent intent.
avoiding the person or issue will not often resolve anything.
where many often use one yarn for a design, i often use three myself.
from there your friends and followers can also “re-pin” the photo to their boards, link intact.
in the same second i crush  it.
but that’s another story for another time.
it’s a great way to share new products with others too.
fact is, there is always that person somewhere in your life.
factors to keep in mind as you consider pricing also include rarity, how labor intensive, precision of the work, and expertise and range of experience.
today, i don’t need as much or as often (in fact i rarely take it) and i’m much less chronically exhausted.
anyone who grew up reading or watchinglittle house on the prairie barks a knowing laugh.
once you have that figured out, it works like a dream blending up a whole pitcher of smoothie at a time.
the kind that only love and gratitude can create.
now that’s my little secret!
every week, killing every one, because their numbers were growing and the docile native wood spiders were nearly gone.
when you are in prescott, you must visit these super friendly ladies and tell them i sent you!
let’s take a look at these and see if any apply.
can you believe it?!
however, the weather turned out to be not quite what even locals expected.
as in, i’m looking up people who interact with me and am making sure they are down for crochet and stumbling blogs (that would be stumble upon).
i am in prescott, az, field testing my crochet gear!
your feelings might be real, but they may have nothing to do with the actual situation at hand.
don’t you just love it!
they are incredibly helpful, friendly and a bright spot to visit.
leave a comment filed under business, editorial, nablopomo tagged as business, communication i lucked into some vintage finds at a thrift store today.
nor does it mean the yarn can be purchased in the us for so little either.
then there are those brand newbies who do the opposite arbitrary claim “it obviously wasn’t working” to justify disrespect to loyal employees and a complete policy make-over, when the claim is simply untrue, illogical and unsupported by any research or facts.
it’s a blessing i sure won’t turn down!
it’s been a good exercise for me to pursue different writing ideas and a kick in the rear to get it done!
anyway, hopefully i’ll remember that thing that’s bugging me.
the bottom right flower is made very similarly to the original flower on the original hat in the same yarn.
and i’ll stop by bead-it on whiskey row.
it is sad to me that today i should wear weak glasses while working on my projects, not because i can’t see them, but because my eyes do not adjust from close to far as quickly anymore.
they even wrote a blog article this week on the copyright subject.
two of the flowers are in a heavier weight yarn than the rest.
and anyone else just stares blankly at me!
nellie oleson exists for you, in some form, in your life somewhere.
think you’re a good person?
however, after a short while, i had to head upstairs before completely passing out from the intensity of the day.
mine’s really designed to make the smoothies that you water down with ice.
federal minimum wage is $7.25 an hour.
2 comments filed under 'tis the season, artist information & notes as someone who damaged their immune system in her early 20′s from sacrificing sleep, please take it from me and make this a priority if you have issues with your sleep cycle.
she may not be soft and cuddly, but nelly won’t try to protect us from ourselves.
just yesterday they enabled protection for flickr users from having their photos pinned.
l-tryptophan (an amino acid found in food like turkey) can also be found over the counter and is what the body uses to make serotonin, which is then converted to melatonin at night.
strawberry/spinach smoothie tonight!
i love the bee earrings!
i would set them next to me with things to do while i worked, and i planned lots of activities together, but i couldn’t always just stop when they wanted.
part of the furniture sticker was missing, so i could not see the whole company name.
that this time, and boy do you know it, you’re the one who is wrong.
also on the same day came kevin lincoln’s article “pinterest might be enabling massive copyright theft” for business insider.
send me any tips if you have them!
it’s like being in a cage and it can become a difficult barrier to break through.
if your friends won’t, the nellie in your life will.
it took quite awhile to get out of the hotel parking lot because of all the parade goers.
4 comments filed under writing tagged as brown recluse, spiders this article was originally published on my blog the difference between a duck on may 5, 2010.
there is no shame in letting others know when you need help.
it’s a chunk of change, and somewhat of a gamble playing the odds whether you will sell something at the venue or not.
allow for the reboot when there’s stress.
y’all stay safe out there and happy december!
as soon as i remember something, i type it into my list.
4 comments filed under artist information & notes oh look!
if you spend 2hrs on a hat and you spent $3 on the materials and you only charge $4.00, $3.00 covers the materials and you just made fifty cents an hour.
unfortunately, some sellers have even found their for-sale items pinned to boards with descriptions like, “$60 is too much!
before texting became a reality, there were plenty of people who could not disconnect from their cell phones.
once words are spoken, you can’t take them back.
dan rockwell over at leadership freak asked a potent question on his blog this morning: what ticks you off as a leader?
leave a comment filed under editorial, nablopomo, random thoughts tagged as attitude, expertise, leadership i’m known to coin phrases.
we’re still hashing out the details to see if we think it’s viable or not.
and i still test better than 20/20.
i like to keep in mind an old adage that goes something like this: “better they wonder why you didn’t open your mouth, than why you did!”
except for the squiggles.
there were some beautiful silk hawaiian ties there as well, but i decided not to get them too.
emotional reality and factual reality are not the same.
drop off your unused yarn leftovers, or balls you aren’t going to use, and debra puts them in a box for $1 a ball, with all proceeds going to the local women’s shelter.
but certainly i expected something different.
in the mean time – post your blogs and twitter ids in your comments, gain some friends!
can you tell which are which?
however, you can only make a small bit at a time.
obey crochet and i cooked up!
in the same second i crush it.
if you find yourself in prescott, az, i can’t recommend the local yarn shoppe –a good yarn – enough.
you’ll likely wake with dawn too.
once he’s been a part of the discussion, he’s your man and knows exactly what to do.
filed under artist information & notes march 1, 2012 brown recluse therapuetics… this story, originally published by me on march 3, 2010, is  republished from my blogthe difference between a duck.
i like to give people choices and get them involved with the process as much as feasible.
1) don’t lie – those who claim credentials and experience they don’t really have.
on our walk earlier, i noticed a shop with tibet imports i want to check out.
still, the back yard does look better.
flipping a timber – you had to be quick – and i was an expert by then.
jeannie even introduced us to using beads.
many emotions are caused by triggers.
a balance of the three seems to work best.
happy new year from both of us!
it’s one of the smaller models, but i took one look and grabbed it.
i didn’t lay down for long, since we needed to meet friends for dinner and would be walking, but the bit did wonders for helping me finish out my day.
and that’s one of those big fears i always have.
i was writing so consistently and then dropped off.
as i uncovered stones and timbers while removing old leaves, various spiders scurried about.
you should always consider seeing a doctor or another certified health professional.
and what ticks you off about leaders?
provided we aren’t snowed in!
but it was a life saver when my son started sleeping through the night
she’s always such a pain!
i probably have 10 of them now.
and my kids love smoothies too.
she’s a good teacher!
things are not always as they seem, but with a little pause and think, you can likely figure it out.
because deep down it sucks to see yourself without the ignorant bliss or the rose-colored glasses your friends and loved ones are all too happy to loan you.
so i’m wracking my brain today, making my “remember the milk” lists and trying to meditate on details in a logical order to see what might be missing.
also found a sweet little silver chain.
next baby step, change lanes and find a well-traveled road i could turn onto so i can hopefully work my way around a loop to come back.
the demon soldier spider predicting every move?
you want to know at the end of the year, after all those last-minute material purchases and all the time invested and you sit down to do those taxes, that it was worth it.
i finally figured out from someone’s …
it’s a little finicky, but my ninja works well.
but my frozen goodie product was yum!
when you pin, pinterest links that photo “pin” directly to the site you pin from.
my end goal was to get back safely to my hotel.
and i still couldn’t.
we are not excluding our friends from overseas!
though several people seemed ok out there driving, there were people like me having trouble.
space rental is not cheap.
and it’s easy to see why.
i love stories and love wondering about the past and the objects that were there to witness it.
meaning i have not really driven in real snow either.
seriously, you can’t help but be in great hands!
even at $5 an hour (a minimum suggestion fromcrochet liberation front founder, laurie wheeler), you still have a $50 price tag.
there’s always a trickle-down.
still, the back yard does look  better.
i’ll have to think about it and make some now.”
some jobs involve a commission, which is generally highly taxed by the government even if it is really what you feed yourself with.
and at the same  time, it was empowering: escaping the brown recluse bite.
and i need to clean out the car and get some of my show stuff from last week put into storage.
but it ain’t everything.
and at the same time, it was empowering: escaping the brown recluse bite.
“statistics” that have no source.
i’ve seen it in religious as well as philosophical circles.
and do not try to turn into a parking space surrounded by pedestrians and cars when your truck obviously won’t take the turns under these circumstances.
it’s present in the educational system.
it’s always seemed odd to me when parents disconnect from their children for long hours talking on the phone.
and before cell phones, they could not disconnect from their home phones.
finally i pulled into the snow-filled middle turn lane for a left turn into a parking lot that looked big enough to turn around in.
thanks again for the therapeutic whine dan……!
someone’s gotta do the job.
i keep a perpetual grocery list this way too.
it’s a special day of magic really.
i can’t wait to work some crochet lace into them!
fear (not panic) is a motivator that can keep you alert and clear the mind.
recluses were taking  over the place, killing off all the rest and no one believed me.
i’m reminded of a conversation with someone once about selling the home they’d lived in for 25+ years.
so now i have instead a delicate sweetened cream butter i’ll have to decide how i want to use.
there’s a zen belief about being fully present in whatever you set your hand to do.
and we could be liable for it.
perhaps the amount of traffic in the hotel/shopping center parking lot should have been a clue that traffic on the main road wasn’t normal.
your movement must be quick and you barely touch the timber when you execute.
you can find my spider web crochet pattern on ravelry here: http://www.ravelry.com/patterns/library/halloween-spider-web—a-variable-pattern-from-aberrant-crochet .
after all, how can we change and overcome what we cannot see?
everybody please give her a round of applause and let her know just how jealous you are!
though perhaps sometimes a curse.
i love the outdated computer equipment pictured all over it!
the fun thing about kumihimo (and i should have taken some photos of jeannie’s examples to do her justice), is that you can use up scraps of yarn and thread that might not be long enough to do much else with.
and in spite of their reclusive nature, when disturbed they have no fear.
pulling out old family recipes, taking time not to be stressed about the world and just be thankful in this sacred space.
you hate how she makes you feel.
in the mean time, check out the pics!
keep a slow steady pace.
reblogged from the difference between a duck: i’m a romantic.
grandma leona would have been jealous.
at the same time, folks have to stand up for themselves and their principals.
telling you what your friends didn’t want to say.
either way, it’s way more now than it was when i was a kid.
wisdom is found in the midst of a multitude of views.
if you never stand up for yourself, who will?
and i was reminded of my childhood down at my  father’s shop.
it’s my guess that the sheer numbers of recluses at the shop caused them to be less reclusive than “experts” claim them to be.
i hunted for more like them, but couldn’t find the exact colors in those sizes.
it wasn’t until i opened it up that i realized what was going on.
just because you don’t have to rely on it to feed your kids, doesn’t mean you should undersell your work.
some people have trouble sleeping because something’s going on in their digestive track.
to buy enough to create a garment is a pretty substantial chunk.
but the fact is,sometimes, as conniving as she can be, as cruel and awful as she can sound – sometimes your nellie isright.
micro-seconds at best.
services like pinterest just make it easier to find out that someonemight want to copy your work.
on my way back there was even a van that had once been behind me, flipped on its side from trying to make it up a hill.
so i added more honey and blended away.
the attitude of expertise that says “i’m the head authority on this and do not need to learn anything else.”
holding that kind of outlook has served me far better than most.
they are extremely resistant to all poisons, except their own.
you don’t just hate her.
set a fair and reasonable price, based on the variables we’re discussing and decide ahead of the show how you will deal with such requests.
but still, this sort of thing can happen.
which is where i got stuck.
but these are natural ways that have helped me.
we’re doing a blog giveaway!
and later school came to require it.
do not stoop to the rude folks either.
join 1,941 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
which means, get them into the discussion and you’ll get the best out of them.
goes to show, lessons can be drawn from even the mundane, andall experiences have value.
there is a free version, which you can just use on your computer and a pro version that allows you to sinc it with your smart phone multiple times a day.
plus i couldn’t sleep much last night, so i worked on these two hat beauties for a custom order.
about another thirty seconds later, i had chunks in my cream and by another 30, it was butter.
yesterday i attempted to get out on the snow-covered streets of prescott, az to meet fellow yarnies at a coffee shop.
after i got back, i realized my goal and relaxed by that fire with some crochet and tea for a bit.
whether as a minor yet annoying inconvenience, or as someone whose very existence seems to defy yours.
do not force what will not likely work, especially when the environment of the game has changed.
if you must use night lights, use red bulbs.
people will do this sort of thing with or without help of services like pinterest.
i’ll let you know when i master typing with my ears while i crochet.
i wasn’t just  being a scared little girl after all.
you are the only one who truly knows your background and circumstances.
i love frozen fruit smoothies too.
and here was a healthy one with strong markings – racing up my bare arm.
recognition of this guy can definitely date you!
it’ll be our first christmas occasion together!
i am now following everyone who participated in this contest and left your websites or twitter accounts to follow.
carma, jeannie and debra!
and oddly, they do have a relationship to correcting in the gut whatever is decreasing proper serotonin/melatonin production.
drop your main attention from the desiredresults to the immediate steps necessary.
there’s not much honing of a craft going on there.
both reactions are fun.
i know my grandparents saw that when i was a kid.
in about 20-30 seconds i had whipped cream.
after much conversation and time, she then walked out of my booth with these words over her shoulder, “i hadn’t thought about making these kinds of things to sell in my booth!
they might not realize the situation, so it’s not a bad thing to let them know.
and i might collaborate on.
are we using “that old 70′s yarn?”
that was a rude awakening when i landed my first waiting job right out of college.
this also goes for those who claim illness or tragedy they’ve never experienced too.
so does a well stocked stash of supplies and finished parts.
the fake pearls are hand-knotted and over all look great, though two of the beads are flaking.
it's ronald mcdonald's friend hamburglar!
maybe add a crochet element.
a phd and a dd are not the same thing.
it’s a great shop of several local artists’ work.
i love this time of year.
when i saw that comedy, i immediately identified with that  detail.
they are not your market.
it was years before my dad realized i was telling him the truth about the  poisonous spiders i worked around in the wood room.
just because ican doesn’t mean i should or that it’s in my (or anyone else’s) best interest.
danced back and then pounced and crushed it under my  shoe.
a great way to hang onto something visually, link included, without taking up space in my bookmarks (a system that doesn’t really work for me anyway) or mytab groups in firefox (which works, but is mainly suitable for my research, not a lot of other things).
you’d probably share a celebratory drink and take in the view together.
i wasn’t sure what to think of it at first, but i’m pretty darn sure now that there can be some marketing aspects to it.
she then proceeded to walk back to her booth on the opposite side of the show.
not old like the  big ones back home.
i could see things that others could not.
but often a computer is a bunch of words, while mommy seemed to stare off into space.
so i’m ready to celebrate, drink some wine, enjoy some chocolate, have some fun and spring a holiday celebration giveaway surprise that stephanie a.k.a.
sure enough, there was the  tunnel in the groove and the tell-tale hunched body with the sand-dollar shaped  back and famous “fiddle” back shape.
being very visual in nature, the platform is perfect for collecting visual experiences that only a photo can describe.
i wasn’t just being a scared little girl after all.
now, i can only promise that i will follow if you do this, but i’m requesting also because it would be nice for other crocheters to find you when they come to this post too.
the question now is which flower with which button for this new custom hat??
pointing out what you didn’t want to see.
lori wanted a red/black hat like the last one i made, but a little shorter and tapered for her face.
when it’s time to go to the store, i sinc everything to my phone and voila!
and i’m no less a person for it.
and likewise the opposite is true.
people can’t help you or give you the space you need on your own without knowing something is up in the first place.
due to this, his thoughts literally form best through discussion and the hearing of his own voice.
not to mention how it undervalues the work of all hand crafters when you do that, including the ones who rely on selling their wares to put food on the table.
and honestly, whose people aren’t my market anyway.
then the memory washes over me.
in addition to my usual content, stay tuned for future contests, reviews, goodies and new friends to meet!
a clause many people probably never noticed.
so then came the opportunity to own a ninja.
join 1,941 other followers enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
sellers are trying to make an extra income.
some etsy folks are there because they lost jobs, or need a second income.
it’s a great visual way to share with others.
thanks to stephanie and obey crochet for joining me in this shindig.
i  wonder how many experts have worked in a building practically owned by a  recluse “clan.”
that said, i know when i had computer work to do at home when the kids were little, it was hard for them to understand why i couldn’t play sometimes.
so there are a few photos here, but only two hats.
i listen to the audio version on a periodic basis to remind me how to trim my words and get to the point.
you’re not always nice.
try not to eat a meal within 4 hours of going to bed.
however, i wish to entertain with a cook out, and to clean things up.
have an interest in dr. who like i do?
(for those who might not know, we’ve only seen snow in austin maybe 4 times in the last 17 years and where i grew up, i only saw it about 3 times as a kid, so any snow is a pretty treat for me!)
when i do shows, it’s always nice to have a selection of flowers and motifs ready to go so i can customize a hat for someone on the spot.
my son is an example of someone who performs best through discussion, not just listening.
4) embrace maturity – drama in a professional environment drives me crazy, along with those who would rather start wwiii than accept criticism, difference of views or simply admit “ok this could have been better.”
and that etsy seller would not have gotten my husband’s sale without pinterest.
and i was reminded of my childhood down at my father’s shop.
only you can have several boards all hosted on pinterest.
not unlike how photos on flickr can be protected and how photos on google image search can be removed.
alright, so down to the business stuff… please read carefully !
put a bunch of brown recluses together in a jar and soon there is only one left alive.
dear hubby and i enjoyed a walk in the snow around the square after dinner tonight.
(it helps to use sliced frozen strawberries too, btw.)
and being in business at all means risk – that’s the nature of business.
but enticed by the fresh air and clear skies, i headed outdoors to work on my  back yard.
the yatsu umi has a spiral effect when you use contrasting colors.
generations of latch-key kids led to generations of fairly self-sufficient adults.
when they are surprised  like this, they hunch and hesitate like a cat before they spring or run.
it was years before my dad realized i was telling him the truth about the poisonous spiders i worked around in the wood room.
23 comments filed under editorial tagged as copyright, pinterest official random.org results lorraine has won a signed copy of her favorite obey crochet drawing “ this yarn ain’t big enough
work cooperatively with traffic, knowing everyone else is also having to focus on their baby steps.
i can not possibly hold that much information in this one physical andfinite body.
pinterest is a concept of “pinning” your favorite interesting photos found across the internet, to a virtual bulletin board, complete with categories and descriptions for content.
so i’m putting together a collection of photos to make the job easier since we live about an hour from each other.
and by catching them in jars in case someone would finally notice not only the markings, but the numbers.
it was at least 3 inches.
i look atkumihimo and see possibilities for jewelry, where crochet might not give me the result i want, but also, i think this could make a much stronger, less stretchy purse strapfor some of my weighty beaded purses, over crochet.
“no one like you could possibly teach me something about the world i’m already an expert in.”
for a basicyatsu umi starter project, we each started with four strands of about two yards each, doubled over to make eight strands to work with, and create a key chain.
however people often have some dysfunctional ways of thinking about the subject.
2 comments filed under 'tis the season, nablopomo, random thoughts
nellie has no vested interest in you.
my goal to get home safely had not changed, but i needed a new course of action.
along with the pioneering spirit of pinterest’s visual landscape, though, copyright controversy has also been in the air.
and the ‘rents and kiddos are getting quality time too.
and every time you think she’s gone, resolved and moved on, another one pops up in her place.
it’s also dear hubby’s and my anniversary today!
and my phone, along with its texting capabilities, is a good tool.
to add fuel to the gathering flames, just last friday, galen moore wrote his article “how your business could get sued using pinterest” for the boston business journal.
it’s still the land of opportunity.
republished from my original post on my blog the difference between a duck on nov. 29, 2009 leave a comment filed under artist information & notes this story, originally published by me on march 3, 2010, is republished from my blogthe difference between a duck.
fun fact: alison arngrim, the actress behind the tv personality of nellie oleson released a 5 star book last year called: “confessions of a prairie bitch: how i survived nellie oleson
at least a tv made noise and pictures.
an hour before bed start turning off and dimming your lights.
just because you are capable of making wash cloths out of cashmere doesn’t mean it’s practical and that everyone will buy one for what it’s worth or at all.
so i did it the slow way – trimmed  around, stepped back to look, placed chairs, stepped back to look, trimmed some  more, tried to reach here and there, until it looked ok.  i think.
blend some flour, spices and milk in a blender and you’ve got instant cream gravy or stew thickener.
this awesome steven harris tie totally got my funny bone!
how much should a hand crafter make per hour?
then there’s the amount of materials as well.
i could tell it was antique, maybe mahogany, i don’t know.
refusing to take phone calls.
it is sad to me that today i  should wear weak glasses while working on my projects, not because i  can’t see them, but because my eyes do not adjust from close to far as  quickly anymore.
well, one obvious thing to consider is the cost of table fees to get into the show in the first place.
recluses were taking over the place, killing off all the rest and no one believed me.
i’d far rather be tagged on pinterest and know where the photo came from.
i’ve never had a green thumb – in fact it’s generally what i’d consider brown.
(see my article “when artist’s hear, ‘i can make that!‘” for more.)
(and you’ll have to send us a photo!)
because they can’t do anything about what they don’t know.”
go camping (tent, not cabin).
(only the real stuff for me.)
for but an instant, memories flood back to me of flipping timbers outside  the wood shop, hunting for the spiders and egg sacks i knew would be  there.
in essence it is a virtual visual collection much like a wish list, or even a dream orvision board.
not to mention the on-going concerns many photographers have.
sure, i showed them things and introduced them to a computer at an early age to help both of them with development, learn how to edit school projects, etc..
experts don’t always know what’s right foryou.
hurt as it may, and as frustrating as it can be to think she’s won and maybe gotten to you, nellie has a way of pointing out the truth of the matter, in all it’s rawness.
it’s a great way to cheat at all sorts of things, like whipped cream and cream gravy.
if at any point i need to do something, i will.
it’s disconcerting to go through.
sometimes even an emperor needs a loud mouth kid to tell him he’s a fool without any clothes on.
to business, to relationships, to peace.
and the wars i fought against the brown recluse invasion there.
probably doesn’t help that i don’t have an ice maker.
by knowing  their habits and every move.
what triggers you and what triggers me is not necessarily going to be similar.
and judging intent is a tricky thing.
i’m thinking about taking the split ring off and instead adding a decorative clasp for an offset design.
no human is infinite enough to contain all the knowledge of a single subject, much less of the universe.
of some thing … even someone.
i have cooked from scratch all my life, but i have never really been able to master a rue.
seriously, all their food seems to be top notch, as are the brews.
it’s all in how we live.
i don’t generally believe in killing spiders, save  the dangerous ones.
thank goodness for the experts in my life who can give me other viewpoints and ways of seeing things.
do you know how much i love him?)
whenever i have to drive for a trip, i take a bag of apples to eat while i drive.
what really ticks you off as a leader?
i was completely disarmed.
it’s the season for working though, you know.
and there were many timbers lined in front of dad’s wood-shop and storage shed for parking.
if i had stopped to figure out that piece of information, my decision process would have been much different.
and you can tell that prescott locals value them too, as they stayed busy with many local friends coming and going, friendly chatter, along with newbies who dropped by today as well.
feel like you never get any help?
but still, until they understood and valued the use of a computer at all, they did not get it.
and that’s not what i’m talking about.
when you feel helpless, the last thing you should do is give up.
sam’s club had one left on clearance for half price.
i was too stuck and my truck was starting to drift in a circle.
so hey guys, i updated the giveaway listing, but just wanted to add (since everyone’s subscribed and should hence see this) that you should also include your twitter id’s and blog addresses if you have them, so we can find you and follow back too!
two hours will not work.
the image has been frozen with me ever since.
no one wants to lose money or have their ideas swiped.
i have expertise, experience and a perspective that is very useful in many ways.
there’s almost no training or skill involved in that.
how much stash you can bust with braiding depends on your end project idea, of course, but it adds one more thing to my bucket of tools and growing skills.
but let’s say we have a beginner.
if you’ve ever been guilty of saying something like that, stop and consider the craziness of what you’re suggesting.
do i think there’s potential for the artistic/handmade world?
roll down your window, be friendly and let others know that your next move depends on them moving first.
as a natural at the art of capturing a story, it’s a gift.
the road finally cleared in both directions enough so that i could slip and slide my way back into the lane i came from without mishap.
so every effort to customize serves future customizations as well.
you might rememberi blogged about them last year.
they’ve moved recently and i look forward to seeing their new digs and visiting with folks i’ve met in years past.
not being an expert in something is not a negative reflection on us.
when it comes to yarn, it’s interesting to me that so many buyers really have no idea how much yarn can cost these days.
seriously, when you do not artificially extend your day with lights and the conveniences of modern life, your body will naturally try to sync up with the sun and other creatures around you.
not asking questions.
if you want to offer a discount for multiple purchases, that can be nice, but price your individual items accordingly so you are still coming out on top in the end.
there’s a reason why we pay doctors what we do, they are highly educated, trained and skilled.
they will definitely become hat pins.
there was a lot of controversy over the ability to steal copyrighted material, and yet copy-machines are indispensable today.
as if to decide which choice to make.
in that article kevin interviews a media law attorney, itai maytal, on the matter.
came with a stamp inside!
good luck, talk to a doctor and hope you get some sleep!
perhaps that one person you can’t help but think privately about, “everything would be a lot nicer if they just would just go away.”
it’s ok for someone else to be the expert.
the idea in general that my way is the right way.
and the loppers we have are bent, so their work wasn’t the finest nor quickest, nor for that matter, painless.
as hard as it may be, sometimes you have to step outside of that emotional reality with logical mindful intent.
did i just hear that?
there was a toddler sitting in a wagon by the side of the road, wiggling his butt, obviously wanting the wagon to go.
you don’t always make great decisions.
we do all need breaks.
and there are a couple homemade type candy shops too.
i had pulled into the center snow filled lane thinking it would have more traction and that i could just make a u-turn and head right back the way i came.
i listen, but often followup with, “ok, you’ve hashed out your concerns with me, but have you gone to the source?
crochet for chemo patients crochet for preemies what does "frogging" mean?
and then we come to the aspect of time and of skill.
assuming without logic or basis.
umm, maybe check yourself here.
we look forward to hearing from you very soon!
keep the end goal in mind, but focus on the now.
can you tell the difference?
later i finally got a magic bullet.
though that makes them sound friendlier to  family than they really are.
so there’s proper time to be at that deep level of sleep.
even letting her true nature out during one shot!
it’s a different kind of world our kids are growing up in.
along with the varying answers both grey and pointed, mr. maytal points out that the recent copyright concerns are likely to be an issue for tumblr as well.
and it’syour job to know your reasonable limits.
(we generally get iceif we get anything in austin and everything shuts down – hence i don’t get out in it.)
it doesn’t matter that she’s your wrongful tormentor, nor for how many times.
there have been complaints from image owners who don’t want their images being pinned and don’t know how to stop the frenzy.
i have not fully explored the whole platform, but so far i’m finding it very handy.
i couldn’t find any at first.
leave a comment filed under editorial, writing tagged as leadership like twitter and facebook, pinterest is a social media concept that’s compelling by nature and has quickly taken the social community by storm.
using the phrase “we do it all the time” as proof that something works, is main stream, or should continue to be allowed, etc. (and gripes me even further when once or twice in reality becomes “all the time” in a debate).
i may have had to walk a ways, but i didn’t mind, because it allowed me to park safely.
they stared at tv too.
and i learned a few things that can be applied to business as well as life.
what would you pay an expert to do and what would you pay a beginner?
the old  ones were the only ones who managed to survive my jars.
it’s an over the counter “vitamin” (synthetic hormone actually).
it does seem to build up in the system.
and she had completely checked out.
oh and then of course one by one the family units got sick.
well, it didn’t go so well for me.
you are not a sweatshop…you are worth more than that… “ also, i’ve heard many women make comments that should never be made, like: “oh but i enjoy doing this
this includes marketing and sales.
it’s easy to forget sometimes the nature of how some jobs work.
there should be a difference.
show me a good thing and i’ll show you a way someone could be victimized by it.
“there’s always anellie oleson.”
communication is essential to mediation.
1 comment filed under crochet community tagged as crochet, drawing, obey, prize
(and all manner in between) how stitches make a difference cro-pocalypse: the rise of crochet the gift of a mother jellyfish for a pet the clf first ever book enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
not sure yet how, but pretty sure this is going to be a necklace.
if you are in their territory, all  bets are off.
it’s pumpkin pie season!
i had worked my way out on the roads and got maybe a mile down the way before i realized that i didn’t have a lot of visibility and that i was having some trouble with the slick roads after all.
and it seems more efficient thanstumbleupon.
leave a comment filed under artist information & notes, nablopomo tagged as alapaca, prescott, yarn
then there was the small cuisinart i brutalized until it finally had plastic bits cracking off it from the sheer vibrational impact of frozen fruit blending in a machine that was never designed for what i was putting it through.
cooking up some fun for you!
european crochet terms for patterns crochet jargon: the difference between ufo’s and wip’s
melatonin is processed through the liver, so keeping your liver healthy is also a good idea.
the smaller dosages (mcg) of melatonin did not work for me.
this also includes taking things personally for no apparent logical or professional reason.
so how much should a hand crafter make?
i don’t want my children’s photos, for instance, posted around the internet without permission either.
with a white truck, i knew that other drivers might not realize that i could not drive as well as they could in the snow, that my vehicle would not be as visible and it definitely did not have a very good turning radius.
this is especially dumb in leadership roles.
encourage people to always get at least a 2nd (qualified) opinion, whatever the situation is, especially when there are doubts.
i like some points laurie made on this subject in previous years on the crochet liberation front forum,“the best way i know of raising the value of anything, is to value it yourself.”
if at any point you start waking up again in the middle of the night while taking melatonin, take a smaller dose or don’t take it.
hmmm, well, yes and no.
next, i have some custom work i’m doing for lori, a local gal with lakeway women in network – a networking group for women in business.
some items, you’ll have to judge.
read more about that history at “copyright and the advent of xerox machines,” a great little article on the “history of information” blog from berkley.
i try something different each time and am always pleased.