let me end with a few hypotheses about why some people – mainly  middle class people sending their kids to private colleges – are paying  way to much for college.
to test this hypothesis, i conducted a simple statistical test with data from my social theory class (n=73).
the undergraduate curriculum is based on a “core” that covers classic writings.
though, i have seen several people not get tenure somewhere, move to a “higher-ranked” school and then get tenure shortly thereafter.
instead, they get this frankenstein major that requires  some math, some philosophy, analytical/deductive thinking, and clear writing.
in the  1990s, it’s about 70%.
so the whiz kid math majors who do the mental heavy lifting have to  share credit (and paychecks) with the legacy kids.
written by fabiorojas may 25, 2011 at 12:48 am posted in economics, education, fabio questioning the higher education bubble with 23 comments i was recently quoted in the huffington post in a story about thiel’s
data from 1,753 independent samples were included in the  meta-analysis, yielding 6,589 correlations for 8 different criteria and 82,659  graduate students.
as a quick side comment – what is very cool about northwestern is  that everything seems to scream “inter-disciplinarity” of some  sort.
yes, being on the opposite side of things can be tough, but the evidence shows that conservatives, on the average, aren’t even trying to make careers in the academy.
today it’s not just classroom instruction that creates so much  cultural and social capital in childhood.
chicago is not exactly a touchy feely  place.
and surprise, the  evidence points toward self-selection.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas october 13, 2011 at 1:33 am posted in education, fabio, just theory, sociology with 7 comments looking back on it, getting an mba at the university of chicago (1981) is really what led me to academia.
many have already made a choice to major in other topics.
recruiters from elite law, consulting, and investment banks exclusively focus on about three or four elite colleges.
home schooling might be seen as k-12 skepticism.
i haven’t been able to find more recent data, but i’d be surprised if that trend reversed.
off i went to get a math econ degree and i’ve  never looked back with any regrets.
(b) they simply don’t  understand that their kids won’t make the income to cover the loan.
if you have any thoughts or feedback (additions etc), feel free  to leave a comment.
written by fabiorojas may 25, 2011 at 12:48 am posted in economics, education, fabio with 23 comments i was recently quoted in the huffington post in a story about thiel’s claim that higher education is a bubble.
paul’s seminar consists of first  and second year students in the organizations and/or sociology phd programs.
i’m a realist because there’s too much evidence against a fundamentalist position.
well, the empirical record shows that the public isn’t terribly interested in this record.
the reason that prices have to eventually go down is that the underlying value hasn’t risen.
it’s not the other way around – large grad students do not lead to more majors.
the key to understanding the chicago experience is that it is based on  purely intellectual pursuits.
if they do know, why do they keep hiring these people?
if they are willing to do it again, they’re probably good workers.
it has some nice features.
human capital simply can’t be  transferred.
that can backfire, as some  students need dissertation projects that are modest.
maybe we should have rules barring financial aid for  degrees that have horrible job prospects(see here).
if i were  to advise foreign applicants, i’d insist that they show that they  “get it” (i.e., understand academia) and have a credible signal of  commitment to academia.
two  orgtheory thumbs up.
the endowment would be earmarked for low income in-state students and the university would be required to admit a certain proportion of in state students.
readers may think i’m  anti-humanities.
iu has great students.
it is not considered a  prequisite for many courses nor do programs require it as an entry point of the  major.
but not everyone has the  academic ability or desire for the professional tracks (business, education,  health) or the sciences/engineering.
it’s not a problem if *some* people major in fields with poor job prospects.
beyond the regular discussion for that day (we read zajac-westphal asr,  davis et al.
they often have extensive experience with the  applicant, or they can explain why the performance in one course is remarkable.
one might interpret this post as a complaint against the buffet style sociology major, where students just take a bunch of disconnected courses.
becker’s argument was that education resulted in higher income because schools trained people in various skills and thus create human capital.
some take home points:
off to the library to read the pink strategy journal!
yglesias focuses on different funding structures and ta’s.
for example, i have read many  letters that insisted the student was top notch (top 1% or 5%), yet the  gre’s and gpa were clearly atrocious.
in certain contexts, rule breaking is wonderful,  but life usually requires rule following and a measure of self-discipline.
we find support for all three claims, with ambiguity only on the question of whether the greater propensity of those on the left to attend graduate school results from personality differences.
basically, if you have a resume, writing sample, and time to interview, how would identify people who are bright, hard working, can finish tasks in a timely manner, have a good nose for research, etc?
behind the culturally celebrated veil of competition then is an elaborate  infrastructure and industry that organizes, supports, and promotes organized  children’s activities, and in turn shapes the daily lives of many  american families.
i have also argued that it may  not be wise for everyone to go to college considering the astronomical cost.
what becomes of undergraduate dance majors? was written by sarah montgomery and michael robinson.
who were the bolshevik leaders?
the bathroom graffiti  refers to greek philosophy and post-colonial theory.
seecaplan’s review of lauren rivera’s ethnography of elite firm recruiting for details.
this  theory is called signalling.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas february 1, 2012 at 12:01 am posted in education, fabio, sociology with 43 comments my facebook news feed is filled with colleagues commenting on graduate program admissions.
the chicago attitude isn’t always “get published,” it’s “write something that’s really important.”
the 70 year old (!) professor suffered broken ribs after being hit by police batons.
(b) they simply don’t understand that their kids won’t make the income to cover the loan.
the incentives do not encourage strong teaching in the sciences.
we shouldn’t be shocked when students  just can’t deal with these books.
home schooling might be seen as k-12  skepticism.
it is not considered a prequisite for many courses nor do programs require it as an entry point of the major.
a minor could probably bag you 5-8 students per year.
with 6 comments i have heard that several schools have recently moved their tenure clocks  back (from six to eight years).
mathematical sociology/computational models intro game theory breadth: a few courses in qualitative topics; three courses of topics in  sociology (like race, gender, education, etc.); a capstone course the background that a student would need is about 1 year of calculus and  some computer literacy.
for this story to work, you  need to believe that these services – investment banking, consulting  – can be easily taught to people who aren’t geniuses.
the 1% of letters:  still, every once in a while, there’s a  letter that makes a clear and compelling case for a student.
what about strategy?
and it’s maintained its position since then.
even if mixed classes lead to more gender mixing, teachers may still preferentially treat males.
it shows that we are encouraging people to attend  college but they are not earning degrees that will make them competitive in the  labor market.
celeste langan has blogged about her arrest by the berkeley police department: as to why i was there: as a tenured professor (and tenure can be defined as a right granted to occupy a position on campus without threat of eviction for expressing dissent)
that allows the system of  hiring by college to survive.
if peopl want to pursue the dream, that’s great.
he praises tim rollins for running a company that offers courses on the western canon.
eventually, though, i knew  i would win him over.
while  people don’t intentionally teach bad, they do in practice because there  is no reason to do otherwise.
however, conservative critics are wrong in thinking that classic western  culture  has been run out of town.
i have a gazillion slides for any given class but  i prefer to talk through the issues.
they provide some concrete evidence that the student is actually exceptional, or that they are better than the transcript.
but! — i knew how to read academic  journals.
add your own explanations.
a lot of people simply don’t have the academic ability or maturity for college.
virginia postrel comes to the defense of the “punching bag  disciplines”
whizbang just distracts (though, the whizbang factor  can also be dialed down in prezi as well).
a longer clock gives scholars time to establish themselves further, to develop a reputation (citations are often used as a measure – and this takes time), etc.
exciting to see courses taught like this on a massive scale, online and free!
early-on, i tried to get my io friends interested in the issues that so  animated my own research.
we find support for all three  claims, with ambiguity only on the question of whether the greater propensity  of those on the left to attend graduate school results from personality  differences.
it’s that kind of place.
in the social sciences, there’s a big debate over schooling and  income.
the profile of the  letter writer is that they are an active teacher and researcher.
they’ve succeeded in teaching and research, but  they’ve failed in maintaining their relationship to the state.
the conservative critics are also correct in that many branches of the humanities have taken a very liberal turn in the last fifty years.
thus, they simply lack the general language of social science.
the charts are from a ucla report called the american freshman: thirty year trends – 1966-1996.
students take intro or social problems, then topics, and then a little stats and theory.
the article switches to the effects of in-class segregation.
we should have  institutions that support the arts.
the introductory sociology course is hard because there is no standard and you get a wide range of students, from scared freshmen to apathetic sixth year seniors.
colleges are filled with people who are there because they think it will  lead to jobs.
among sociology courses, it’s probably the most demanding course, along with statistics and intro.
written by @mdryall september 29, 2011 at 7:45 pm posted in academia, economics, education, research, strategy, uncategorized with 5 comments if you’re a parent you’ve likely spent a lot of time lately preparing for the start of the school year.
(in case you are wondering, btw, years later when i  was a rookie phd, i interviewed at chicago.
– woody allen i have a hypothesis, shared by many social scientists, that life course  outcomes are highly correlated with self-discipline.
we shouldn’t be shocked when students just can’t deal with these books.
write your own tips in the comments and don’t forget to check out the grad skool rulz book(it’s cheap).
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas october 25, 2011 at 12:32 am posted in academia, education, fabio, just theory organization design bleg with 6 comments is organizational design being taught anywhere anymore?
it also turns out that i’m agpa terminator.
perhaps a  “free” wisconsin would charge harvard rates.
also, you have to work extra hard to distinguish between students who are more interested in migration than the academic career.
the police, who are given the impossible mission of using “minimal force”–a concept with similar conceptual ambiguity–in the pressure of the moment, also did not take time to think, to consider a response appropriate to the circumstances.
i’ve got no beef with that.
should there be major public research institutions at all?
off i went to get a math econ degree and i’ve never looked back with any regrets.
in the 1990s, it’s about 70%.
let me finish with a more constructive comment.
we reject the overwhelming majority of applicants, including many who will go on and have great careers in sociology.
but they  had significantly higher test scores in the year before admission than girls  who applied but were not admitted, although admission was reported to be a  lottery, and their subsequent achievement was no better than that of students  in a coeducational program with similar entry-level score.
in my large lecture in social theory, about 10% got any version of an a, with a single unadorned a. i am not alone.
rather, it’s a truly intellectual place.
as surveys have shown,  professors tend to be politically liberal, much more than the rest of the  population.
second, the public research school has done a good job educating lots of people,myself included.
there is one  passage in o.w.’s post that i want to discuss at length: one core value question is whether you support the idea of an elite  research institution or not.
i am also interested in why you chose it.
i think the right policy stance for a college realist is “targeted access.”
that b-school  training was truly awesome.
we know that many students fail out of college and those that remain fail to learn much.
the folks with rock bottom gre’s and a 2.9 gpa won’t get more than a quick glance, if that.
at a place like chicago.
while there are likely some cases of that, the evidence was always weak for discrimination as a general explanation.
that brings 2-4 people a semester.
anyways – any thoughts, is there an optimal tenure clock?
back then, course readings were 30-40 academic journal articles.
except for math soc, all the courses are there already.
if you are applying to iu, i am quite sorry.
but, here’s the catch: “efficiency” in this work is typically measured as revenue/cost.
but, here’s the catch: “efficiency”  in this work is typically measured as revenue/cost.
on the other hand, the debt students incur as they pursue a liberal arts education also poses a threat to free inquiry, that central value of democratic society.
yes, there are other prestigious departments, but chicago’s program was one of the first, possibly the first, in the 1890s.
we know that many students fail out of college and  those that remain fail to learn much.
the consequence is a structural transformation of the leading public universities.
for conservative critics of the academy, i have a simple message based on  my reading of this research paper and others.
perhaps it’s in the literature.
first, departments vary in their strategies and  procedures.
if you have any thoughts or feedback (additions etc), feel free to leave a comment.
and: in addition, underperforming children in ss schools often transfer out  prematurely, which inflates final performance outcomes.
the positives: negatives: i’ll probably be using prezi in some settings (btw: you can explore prezi presentations here).
i’m in touch with some of our graduates and structure is a matter that they constantly wrestle with.
i teach an  mba organization theory class
this report is about minimum standards.
the knee jerk reaction to proposal to limit or shrink college education is a symptom.
the result is that you get people who are exposed to theory as the last thing they do before graduation.
the undergrad coordinator also knows i  need people.
io economists, io being in many ways a mirror field, are interested in how the most value gets created.
they’ve done at reasonable price (until recently) and with a world class faculty.
i knew nothing about strategy at the time —
choose themost  important goal of the undergraduate social theory course.
in particular, they make a living by both creating  competitive kid capitaland sustaining a base of families who believe  that kid capital is essential to future success.
it turns out that there is actually extensive research investigating whether gre scores actually do predict performance in graduate school.
but this chart shows  that there is a significant number of people who can handle college, but it  likely won’t help them much.
as i wrote a few weeks ago, the leading state schools aren’t really “state” schools.
what other  resources would you recommend for this audience?
these people take out massive loans for skills they will never use.
at the risk of public ridicule –here’s a draft of the syllabus.
i don’t count it against students, but it doesn’t help.
the dichotomy is one between distributional vs. efficiency issues.
sadly, i’ve read only four or five letters that fit this mold, out of  hundreds.
in exchange for adopting a quasi-private stance and retaining these privileges, state universities would be required to fund raise and establish an endowment that is only for in-state students.
if you are the kind of person who can follow the rules, you’ll probably do well.
(d) consumption good – they simply value the four years a lot.
i bet a few hard  science types would be happy to tack it on as a double major.
why bother with this insanely hard major that is badly taught and will punish you with low grades?
furthermore, graduate schools  in law and medicine don’t give you credit for a low gpa just because it  was in a hard major.
these may, or may not, be defensible choices, but the bottom line  is the same – reduced support for public universities.
from internal data, i know sociology  gives lower grades than the rest of the college of arts and sciences, which  gives lower grades than the rest of the university.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 5, 2011 at 12:01 am posted in academia, education, fabio, grad school rulz, sociology with 30 comments over at the marginal revolution, alex tabarrok posted a nice chart.
they also have decent verbal scores, but bad to miserable math scores.
it’s great when a man can profit by  teaching great literature.
i’ve taught multiple sections every year that i’ve been in residence, until this year when we bundled everyone together into a lecture.
school supplies purchased featuring some sort of  disney/nickelodeon character?
and these afterschool hours are not only the source of capital for kids, they are also the source of very real economic capital for many adults.
so just hire a bunch of them and fire  those that fare poorly, which is the strategy for many investment firms.
book adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 11, 2011 at 12:15 am posted in culture, economics, education, fabio with 6 comments i have heard that several schools have recently moved their tenure clocks back (from six to eight years).
third, a lot of letters are obviously lame.
let me end with a few hypotheses about why some people – mainly middle class people sending their kids to private colleges – are paying way to much for college.
if they are  willing to do it again, they’re probably good workers.
but there are two issues.
they provide  some concrete evidence that the student is actually exceptional, or that they  are better than the transcript.
ss education physically separates people into separate classes.
the profile  is that they major in sociology and have a decent gpa.
they are more like schools that get an  annual state grant.
i like “useless college majors,” but debt undermines the humanities and other fields (like sociology!).
if the applicant is interested in social work or activism, academic sociology isn’t a good fit.
the article is called “do stem faculties want undergraduates to study stem fields?”
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas january 28, 2012 at 12:04 am posted in economics, education, fabio punching-bag disciplines with 14 comments bill gross says – “philosophy, sociology and liberal arts
the study included samples from multiple  disciplines, considered different criterion measures, and corrected for  statistical artifacts.
at a  competitive r1 school, i’d imagine that you could get 3-4 majors per  year.
other products, like the  headbands, are successful by preying on parental concerns about their  children’s safety.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas december 27, 2011 at 12:02 am posted in education, fabio, social movements lots of free courses coming online january 2012 with 2 comments over at that other blog i’ve been linking to some free online courses  that start january 2012.
they think about a jumble of disconnected facts.
random thoughts: statements are good for sorting students, but only  broadly.
i have  lectures, so many potential recruits.
can an elite research university survive with an egalitarian ethos in the face of competition from the unapologetic elitist private institutions?
about 30% of our grades are a’s, making us the  10th toughest grader in the university.
letters of recommendation: my opinion of letters continues to slide over time.
the funding was horriblenon-existent and the environment was in many ways unsupportive.
o.w. wrote that some people focused on tuition in a world without public research institutions.
in my mba organization theory class i have used the following org design-related materials: nitin nohria’s succinctnote on organization structure along with his appex case, the oticon case (with nicolai’s excellentorganization science piece on oticon as extra reading), and then miscellaneous readings that touch on issues such as legitimacy and structure (so, for example, we’ve read meyer & rowan, also an old mintzbergmanagement science piece) as well as some readings related to self-organization.
i really was a strategy guy and, clearly,  the strategy literature was where my career would rise or fall.
i was smugly comfortable in my belief that, regardless of how frustratingly  slow progress in strategy was, the field had little to worry about from  economics.
i think the right policy stance for a college realist is “targeted  access.”
when people say  “bubble,” they usually mean “an unsustainable rise in  prices,” which is often, but not always, due to speculation.
”good” jobs require college  degrees as a test of ability and emotional maturity (being able to sit and do  work), even if the job itself requires no college level skills.
lots of other kids probably meet minimum requirements but probably wouldn’t be competitive if it weren’t for being children of alumni.
on the other hand, the debt students incur as they  pursue a liberal arts education also poses a threat to free inquiry, that  central value of democratic society.
at some point, i started consulting and, at some  point after that, i was asked to work on a strategy project.
first, public research institutions  have done remarkably well in the competition.
but then, henderson approvingly quotes heather  macdonald’s article on rollins and his company.
let’s get straight to it: the report by jeffrey carneval, joeff strohl, and michelle melton, is here (it’s 182 pages – so a slow download).
written by fabiorojas may 4, 2011 at 12:03 am posted in education, fabio with 5 comments i’m co-teaching a short and quite eclectic doctoral seminar on “collective action and organization theory” with henri schildt here at the hanken school of economics in helsinki.
consider the post calledwhat i thought,  at age 16, academia was supposed to be by david henderson.
statistics is hard because sociology majors have poor math skills.
i agree with thiel that something is very much wrong in higher education, but it’s not quite analogous to the housing or dot-com bubbles.
we probably won’t be  offering you admissions.
we should really be asking tough questions about higher education  finances in general.
we’ll only meet  four times, so there isn’t room for a whole lot.
i am not an enemy of humanities but i believe that higher  education must be carefully managed.
basically, if you have a resume, writing  sample, and time to interview, how would identify people who are bright, hard  working, can finish tasks in a timely manner, have a good nose for research,  etc?
colleges are filled with people who are there because they think it will lead to jobs.
but! — i knew how to read academic journals.
there’s an old paper in the journal of cultural economics on  the careers of undergraduate dance majors.
we should also  demand that our educators treat all students alike.
a news report indicates that poetry professor & pulitzer prize winner geoffrey o’brien was beaten by police at berkeley.
signed child up for a plethora of  enrichment afterschool activities after being deluged with ads and then feeling  guilty because every other child your child’s age seems to be enrolled?
do they not know that a huge chunk of ivy league graduates simply don’t have what it takes to get into ivy league colleges without the help of mom and dad?
whizbang just distracts (though, the whizbang factor can also be dialed down in prezi as well).
the police, who are given the impossible mission of using  “minimal force”–a concept with similar conceptual  ambiguity–in the pressure of the moment, also did not take time to think,  to consider a response appropriate to the circumstances.
lots of other kids probably meet  minimum requirements but probably wouldn’t be competitive if it  weren’t for being children of alumni.
college is mainly a waste of time.
it’s great when a man can profit by teaching great literature.
when we make education into a high priced job placement test, it undermines the liberal arts.
it also turns out that  i’m agpa terminator.
while there are gendered  differences in brain anatomy, they claim that there is no link to learning.
fourth, a lot of students, especially those in low status schools or who have non-academic employment, have letter writers who are not in a position to write honest and thoughtful evaluations.
if peopl want to pursue the dream,  that’s great.
in our view,  courses based upon some textbook anybody could get at their student bookstore  for $50 had to be worth little more than, well, $50.
unless they can make the case that their math score is an aberration (e.g., they did well in freshman calculus), it’s hard for them to move to the top of the pile.
”good” jobs require college degrees as a test of ability and emotional maturity (being able to sit and do work), even if the job itself requires no college level skills.
another sold special headbands meant to help prevent  concussions.
i think there are three positions one can  take toward education: college fundamentalism: college is always good for everyone.
there are educational skeptics.
furthermore, there’s evidence that college is overpriced relative to future earnings.
faculty and graduate student funding in the sciences relies heavily  on external income sources.
the bathroom graffiti refers to greek philosophy and post-colonial theory.
profits are high because prices are  high; teachers and coaches can charge a lot since there are often not many  competitors in their areas of expertise, which would help keep prices  down.
the first four weeks will be a series of case studies on the following movements: i’m dealing with young folks who won’t have a lot of first hand knowledge of movements.
i’ve seen a lot of letters by bosses, academic advisers, project supervisors, and so forth.
there are lots of campuses with smart people.
written by fabiorojas september 1, 2011 at 12:02 am posted in education, fabio conservatives in the academy: it’s not discrimination, it’s  selection – for 103rd time with 25 comments many conservative critics of the academy believe that liberals dominate  because of anti-conservative discrimination.
are elite firms stupid?
given the skyrocketing costs, we are  condemning them to decades of student loan servicing when they should be  leading happier low debt lives.
the results: skipping the daily writing assignment is *not* correlated with midterm  performance, except for “extreme skipping.”
sometimes it’s language, sometimes it’s simply a  different grading system.
furthermore, lower division topics courses (e.g., crime or gender) rarely cast their topic in terms of general sociological arguments.
that b-school training was truly awesome.
over time, outside of trying to stay up on promising methodological developments, i became less attentive to what people were doing in economics.
this effort to require the programs  to yield “gainful employment” has angered private colleges as well  as some education advocates who say minority students will be  disproportionately harmed if the programs lose their eligibility for federal  aid.
i was quoted as one of the skeptics.
another tactic: i look for students who have done “nitty  gritty” work of some type, like working in a biology lab.
in seven years  of field work watching protests, i’ve seen it all.
this squares with my experience teaching sociology undergraduates.
tenure clocks do vary significantly  from university to university, from five-six years to ten or so years.
read the rest of  this entry »
but producers, who need to make money, advertise that the products will make  participation more convenient, or improve a child’s performance, thus  making a purchase “required.”
the typical intro course often relies on streamlined  textbooks.
the way it rubs off on graduate students, for better or worse, is that phd  students are allowed to think big, be ambitious.
it turns out that neil gross, jeremy freese and ethan fosse have a series  of papers testing the self-selection hypothesis.
when people say “bubble,” they usually mean “an unsustainable rise in prices,” which is often, but not always, due to speculation.
the stuff that wouldn’t be “best-practices” for another 10 years.
the 1% of letters: still, every once in a while, there’s a letter that makes a clear and compelling case for a student.
yes,some people love milton, but most humanities  majors are there because they mildly enjoy the topic and need to get a degree.
this describes the housing bubble well.
if there are org design folks anywhere out there – i would be eager to hear what materials you have successfully utilized.
(e) myopic preferences – people seriously underestimate long term costs.
when i asked him what journal articles he was putting in his  mba course, he did a spit-take and said, “wall street journal  articles.”
later that day,thomas gorkey, who teaches at syracuse, read the article and wrote, i said that higher education wasn’t a bubble in the normal sense of the word because education is not a commodity that you can trade: this doesn’t seem right to me, but i’d love for you to convince me that i’m wrong!
with respect to the debate we had about useless college majors, the main point is that dance is probably like many fields in that it is very hard to continue after graduation.
the article is called “do stem faculties want  undergraduates to study stem fields?”
it turns out that there is actually extensive  research investigating whether gre scores actually do predict performance in  graduate school.
what ican say is that the bar for strategy research has stealthily  gone up over last decade.
those still in dance do dance about 10-15 hours a week and often must  supplement their income.
pictures on the front porch of the house with child in first-day-of-school attire (posted to facebook, of course)?
if the technology distracts, then that is a  problem.
on the other hand, young scholars like syverson are smart … and teched-up … and full of youthful energy.
the take home points: elite firms have no time to sort through people.
read the rest of this entry »
we examine whether in fact young americans who identify as liberal are more likely to enroll in graduate programs with the intention of completing a doctorate; the proposition that such a tendency cannot be explained away by variables unrelated to occupational reputation; and the claim, also made by the theory, that exposure to many years of higher education is not a major cause of the liberalism of graduate students.
at chicago, it has the distinction of having been the birthplace of a discipline.
i also hope that the odd structurelessness of the place has changed.
written by fabiorojas may 4, 2011 at 12:03 am posted in education, fabio collective action and organization theory – a syllabus with 5 comments i’m co-teaching a short and quite eclectic doctoral seminar on  “collective action and organization theory” with henri schildt here  at the hanken school of economics in helsinki.
i’m glad that langan and other faculty are speaking about the intellectual consequences of college debt.
they trade thousands of dollars (that they don’t have) for an education that is supposed to land them a job that pays even more than what their education cost.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas february 1, 2012 at 12:01 am posted in education, fabio, sociology sociology and management phd program admissions – comments and  open thread with 43 comments my facebook news feed is filled with colleagues commenting on graduate  program admissions.
our efforts  should be on identification of merit, targetting people who need help, and  price control, not merit-blind loans and other policies that bloat and distort  higher education.
i don’t count it against students, but  it doesn’t help.
in the social science and humanities, funding is mainly internal.
i really quite like rich burton et al’s slim book organization design: a step-by-step approach (cambridge) and a few years ago i also talked to him about the design/structure-related simulation software that he makes available – i’m thinking about incorporating parts of the book.
the authors,diane halpern of claremont and seven others, claim higher scores for ss students are results of selection bias and sample censoring: for example, students at a public middle school in the southwest united states boast higher test scores than most students in their district.
any other  interpretations?
you have to take social theory – which is reading hard original  texts from authors like weber, marx, durkheim, and so forth.
if the technology distracts, then that is a problem.
they don’t think in terms of variables, processes, and hypotheses.
the theory explains the liberalism of the american professoriate as a function of reputation-based self-selection: because academia has a reputation for liberalism, liberals are more likely to pursue graduate degrees and academic careers.
io economists, io being in many ways a mirror  field, are interested in how the most value gets created.
after all, i’d  love to have more outlets for my work.
if they do it well, they move on to more ambitious  things.
what is problematic is that children’s after-school activities have become so commodified, with little to no regulation of their practices.
they often have extensive experience with the applicant, or they can explain why the performance in one course is remarkable.
one theory, human capital, says that school gives you specific skills.
they score 19% less than the rest of the class.
nearly all applicants from low status schools (e.g., the “public  ivies” like michigan or berkeley or any other non-hyp school) are tossed  in the trash without review.
the thresholds vary.
the abstract: this meta-analysis examined the validity of the graduate record examinations (gre) and undergraduate grade point average (ugpa) as predictors of graduate school performance.
there is one passage in o.w.’s post that i want to discuss at length: one core value question is whether you support the idea of an elite research institution or not.
it’s not the  other way around – large grad students do not lead to more majors.
for many teachers and coaches these afterschool activities are the basis of their livelihoods.
the take home points: so what gives?
now, those who have followed the narrative to this point will say, “yes, but it’s work on productivity — that means the interest is still all about efficiency!”
commercializing that knowledge, yeah, that’s where the money was.
i don’t think you can go wrong there – fantastic  scholars and an interdisciplinary, collaborative environment.
but i noticed that  after the arrest, they took sweet time—something like four hours—to  write reports and “book” us, and then, after another four or five  hours, to release us from jail.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas december 1, 2011 at 12:16 am posted in economics, education, fabio with 24 comments i have argued that we have too much college.
admissions committees often have trouble interpreting applications from  foreign countries.
the first four weeks will be a series of case studies on the following  movements: the civil rights movement women’s rights in america the bolshevik revolution the tea party
recruiters from elite law, consulting, and investment banks  exclusively focus on about three or four elite colleges.
i also hope that  the odd structurelessness of the place has changed.
in my  experience, the normal situation is that police peacefully arrest  protesters who want  to be arrested for symbolic purposes.
it could be good news.
we probably won’t be offering you admissions.
these studies, if i understand them, are about  separating students into two groups within a class.
fourth, a lot of students,  especially those in low status schools or who have non-academic employment,  have letter writers who are not in a position to write honest and thoughtful  evaluations.
as in  some bubbles, people are making some sort of gross over estimation of how much  some economic resource is worth.
in fact, just as recently as last year, i had this discussion with  one of my dearest colleagues, jan rivkin.
lower division topics courses are often grounded in material that is fairly intuitive for most people.
if the tool fails to do its job, i can live without it.
the funding was horriblenon-existent and the environment was in  many ways unsupportive.
it’s far above what we normally  ask of them.
i agree with thiel that something is very much wrong in higher  education, but it’s not quite analogous to the housing or dot-com bubbles.
that was about a time the paper by chad  syverson (2011) started making the rounds.
seecaplan’s  review of lauren rivera’s ethnography of elite firm recruiting for  details.
(e) myopic preferences – people seriously underestimate  long term costs.
agendas will no longer suffice” – “skill-based education is a  must, as is science and math.”
written by fabiorojas may 15, 2011 at 12:57 am posted in economics, education, fabio with 87 comments there’s a lot of skepticism about gre’s and their role in graduate admissions.
sports barely register.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 23, 2011 at 6:29 pm posted in economics, education, fabio social theory midterm results: a behavioral approach with 8 comments eighty percent of success is showing up.
and please, no namby pamby “these aren’t mutually exclusive, let’s all hold hands.”
having taken a math major myself, i  can attest that topology isn’t useful in the labor market, but it  probably acts as strong signal.
ss education physically  separates people into separate classes.
for a certain segment of the market, there is a huge over investment in human capital.
another tactic: i look for students who have done “nitty gritty” work of some type, like working in a biology lab.
people will rightfully resent education and the labor market.
however, conservative critics are wrong in thinking that classic western culture has been run out of town.
physical capital is some physical object that allows you to produce more goods and services for sale on the market.
second, i didn’t see evidence  showing that teachers treat female students better in mixed classes.
written by teppo october 27, 2011 at 4:08 am posted in education social theory is hard to teach with 9 comments previously on orgtheory: the social theory poll/goals of the social  theory course this week, i want to talk about why social theory is hard to teach.
the undergrad coordinator also knows i need people.
and if so, what does it take to maintain them?
despite these issues, i don’t regret going there for a second.
that can backfire, as some students need dissertation projects that are modest.
similarly, modern college students are more  interested in financial stability, not philosophical issues.
our efforts should be on identification of merit, targetting people who need help, and price control, not merit-blind loans and other policies that bloat and distort higher education.
few students possess all of these skills at once, which is why the grades are  lower than in comparable majors.
i’m a realist because there’s too much evidence against a  fundamentalist position.
take the numerator and  subtract the denominator and — presto — you have the object of  focus in strategy.
if there are not an appreciable number of students with a strong knowledge of current events, history, or other fields that would facilitate learning social theory, then it means we’re failing to attract these students.
i give them some simple task to do.
i have a gazillion slides for any given class
the positives: nice macro layouts and views cloud-desktop interface very handy sure to impress some audiences quite easy to use big bonus: the company is very nice to educators – you can download  a free desktop version (with 500mb of memory) relatively easy to “prezify” old keynote or powerpoint slides  – i converted some old slides and it was seamless (though, you have to go  from pdf to prezi – which creates within-slide limitations)
we should massively  subsidize college for anyone who asks for it.
i’ll probably stick with good ol’ keynote, google and/or ppt – until further notice.
i’m still digesting this.
otherwise, i phase them out by giving them very easy tasks.
subject tests tended to be better predictors  than the verbal, quantitative, and analytical tests.
academic articles rarely do this basic factual description.
the stuff that wouldn’t be  “best-practices” for another 10 years.
back then, course readings were 30-40 academic  journal articles.
the consequence is a structural transformation of the leading public  universities.
do they not know that a huge chunk  of ivy league graduates simply don’t have what it takes to get into ivy  league colleges without the help of mom and dad?
what langan, and others, have experienced is neither normal or necessary.
my reaction was: big opportunity here.
there’s selection effects as well.
i read transcripts carefully to spot praiseworthy or suspicious behavior (e.g., lots of withdrawals, hard courses, upward trajectories).
being conservative is  probably correlated with certain attitudes toward work, such a desire for high  compensation, that are hard to satisfy in the academy.
there’s  modest amount of evaluation based on performance (sat  or gpa), but not a lot.
so why do i stick to these views?
the endowment would be earmarked for low income  in-state students and the university would be required to admit a certain  proportion of in state students.
among students who have exhibited conservative opinions, getting them  into upper level sociology is like pulling teeth.
rather than argue at the level of values, let’s look at the historical record.
so when you go the room with the dissertations, you are seeing a  room with dissertation ranging from erving goffman to andy abbott.
but i think that could be offered, or made an elective.
join 295 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
sociology instructors expect writing that combines variables/analytic  thinking with college level expository writing.
of course, some folders get more attention than others.
they want to tell the ftc how to increase social welfare.”
we had a great discussion about whether the two sides simply represent extremes, about the history of methodological debates like this (going back to the german historical school, weber etc), the practical implications of these debates for understanding social phenomena, questions of “pushing your cookie” versus pluralism, etc, etc.
the orgs and soc people are extremely well linked, attend each other’s seminars etc, micro and macro folks work together (e.g., brayden has a recent piece with the notorious adam g in a psych outlet), you’ve orgs folks like jeannette colyvas at the ed school, and you’ve got fascinating interdisciplinary centers like the one brian uzzi co-directs (nico).
i really was a strategy guy and, clearly, the strategy literature was where my career would rise or fall.
the writer ivan illich argued that we needed to “deschool” society.
because parents are willing to invest a lot of money in these activities, there is a lot of money to be made.
they also do  their best to arrest the small fraction of violent protesters.
this is forced choice.
furthermore, graduate schools in law and medicine don’t give you credit for a low gpa just because it was in a hard major.
choose themost important goal of the undergraduate social theory course.
with 12 comments why is social theory hard for students?
scholarly productivity can be evident early on, so a short clock perhaps makes sense.
in fact, just as recently as last year, i had this discussion with one of my dearest colleagues, jan rivkin.
some regions have a reputation for less than trustworthy credentials.
it’s that  kind of place.
deans allocate ftes (faculty lines) and graduate program class sizes (# of phd students) based on a combination of merit and, more importantly, enrollments.
i don’t want long books, but essays, encyclopedia entries, journalistic summaries, contexts articles, etc.
subject tests tended to be better predictors than the verbal, quantitative, and analytical tests.
that was until about a month ago.
written by teppo april 29, 2011 at 10:06 pm posted in education, social movements, strategy, teppo« older entries blog at wordpress.com.
though, in terms of teaching, i’ve tried to move away from more than one slide per each class (i’m a chalkboard kinda guy these days), so perhaps not for class.
a working paper called “political  liberalism and graduate school attendance: a longitudinal analysis”  reports the following: this paper analyzes longitudinal data to evaluate three claims that are key to a recently developed theory of professorial politics.
we want to tell apple how to make  more profit.
what’s the alternative?
for example: what’s a bolshevik?
there are also field specific self-selection effects.
if you teach at a university with a lot of decent social science departments, it’s an easy major to implement.
so if you really want the academy to take your ideas seriously, invest the effort at making a difference.
attendance is correlated with midterm performance.
the only course that soc depts don’t already  offer is math soc.
the rest of my comments are directed at faculty who are serving on admissions committees.
for example, policy makers in america often promote more student loans to increase enrollments.
second, social theory often comes at the end of the sociology major and is not integrated with the rest of the curriculum.
my sense is that there’s a large opportunity that’s been passed on.
(c) emulation of the wealthy.
they don’t think in terms of variables, processes, and  hypotheses.
a longer clock gives scholars time to establish themselves  further, to develop a reputation (citations are often used as a measure –  and this takes time), etc.
i haven’t  been able to find more recent data, but i’d be surprised if that trend  reversed.
many ivy league students are selected on political grounds – legacies, athletes, and various “well rounded” kids: researchers with access to closely guarded college admissions data have found that, on the whole, about 15 percent of freshmen enrolled at america’s highly selective colleges are white teens who failed to meet their institutions’minimum admissions standards.
writing samples are good measures on general writing, but still, i am reluctant to make a decision on a product that was often not originally intended to be research sociology (e.g., a term paper in history or a policy report).
but there aren’t too many hard core skeptics.
in seven years of field work watching protests, i’ve seen it all.
you can test that hypothesis.
later that day,thomas gorkey, who teaches at syracuse, read the article and  wrote, i said that higher education wasn’t a bubble in the normal sense  of the word because education is not a commodity that you can trade: this doesn’t seem right to me, but i’d love for you to convince  me that i’m wrong!
i found the quantity and quality of work cited, frankly, jaw-dropping.
another interpretation is that sociology attracts the wrong kind of student.
overall, i am still not a strong proponent of single sex, or single race,  education.
the only course that soc depts don’t already offer is math soc.
and the cost would be zero.
education  researchers spend more time, relatively speaking, on access (getting people  into college) than impact (see how it matters).
two orgtheory thumbs up.
not surprisingly, they are often puzzled about the goal of the course when they finally get to it.
stem is a raw deal for marginal students.
this is not a case of a few recent republican legislatures targeting liberal egg heads for budget cuts.
a few answers: these firms are selling legitimacy.
chicago is a truly unique institution, but not because it is highy ranked in the academic world.
statistics is hard because sociology majors have poor  math skills.
i wanted to express my concern about the double threat posed to the ideal of liberal education by the rising cost of tuition and, more generally, the burden of debt.
different sets of individuals, organizations, and businesses play a role in producing child competitors and winners, just as it takes an “art world” to create an artist or a piece of art (a la becker).
now, there is an important element of truth.
if so, it should be  discussed.
these may, or may not, be defensible choices, but the bottom line is the same – reduced support for public universities.
they once even had a  protestin favor of a foreign language requirement.
the leading flagships –  berkeley, ann arbor, michigan, etc. – have research records comparable to  elite privates.
so we don’t rely on a steady feed of  polished applicants from the west coast and ivy league.
written by teppo november 14, 2011 at 6:27 am posted in academia, education, productivity and performance berkeley police beat unarmed poet; arrested english prof speaks out with 3 comments 1.
the dichotomy is one  between distributional vs. efficiency issues.
any gre skeptics willing to defend their position?
there is a world of childhood activities organized to profit from parents who are concerned about their children’s futures.
i have also argued that it may not be wise for everyone to go to college considering the astronomical cost.
we need a way for people to credential themselves without taking on the massive  un-payable debt associated with the modern humanities degree.
it is hard to develop meaningful distinctions with a certain class of  students.
now let’s get back to the higher education bubble.
the charts are from a ucla report called the  american freshman: thirty year trends – 1966-1996.
to understand, say weber’s, writings, you  need to know history, have a broad vocabulary, and be able to read lengthy and  complex sentences.
art history majors power the us economy.”
i need a lot of facts, but i am trying to keep the  reading reasonable and the total book costs low.
the results indicated that the gre and ugpa are  generalizably valid predictors of graduate grade point average, ist-year  graduate grade point average, comprehensive examination scores, publication  citation counts, and faculty ratings.
in my experience, the normal situation is that police peacefully arrest protesters who want to be arrested for symbolic purposes.
i really quite like rich  burton et al’s slim book organization design: a step-by-step approach (cambridge) and a few years ago i also talked to him about the  design/structure-related simulation software that he makes available –  i’m thinking about incorporating parts of the book.
the level of discussion was high – frankly, surprisingly high.
so i am spending one week for each of these four  movements.
the conservative critics are also correct in that many branches of  the humanities have taken a very liberal turn in the last fifty years.
(again, sorry about the photo quality – it was the best shot we got, even with my all-powerful 4s.)
so if you  really want the academy to take your ideas seriously, invest the effort at  making a difference.
police are at great liberty in how they deal with protest.
we - the higher education community – should instead work on identifying promising young people from less wealthy families and building financial resources, like endowments and grants, that will make college affordable for these people.
the state has the power to charter schools, give them grants, and  license their brand name (e.g., the university of state x).
students are attracted to sociology because it’s accessible and many  think it will be easy.
it shows, using a  yearly survey of freshmen, that college students are becoming more interested  in making money.
the discussion was very lively.
while some parents express discomfort that some adults are  “making a living off of” their children (childhood is supposed to  be a sacred time, after all), they still pay up for fear of their child being  “left behind.”
we do read a lot of folders in detail because iu employs a sort of “moneyball” strategy.
beyond the regular discussion for that day (we read zajac-westphal asr, davis et al.
(c)  emulation of the wealthy.
the folk wisdom seems to be that gre’s  aren’t terribly useful.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 28, 2011 at 12:08 am posted in academia, education, fabio orgtheory poll: college and jobs with 4 comments take our poll
the ta’s have no teaching experience.
also, more recent ucla data from the 2000s shows that around 60% to  70% of college students, depending on the question, want more job career advice  from their college.
it is hard to develop meaningful distinctions with a certain class of students.
school supplies purchased featuring some sort of disney/nickelodeon character?
nuclear engineering, which has very high unemployment, reflects a shrinking industry.
and it isn’t because of finances.
also,  it’s hard to get experimental evidence but there is observational  evidence.
knowing nothing else about the students,  like gpa, sat, or ses, i can account for a lot of variance by just seeing if  they show up and hand in assignments.
written by hilaryleveyfriedman september 2, 2011 at 8:42 pm posted in education, guest bloggers conservatives and their college fantasies with 8 comments conservative think that modern colleges are bastions on unfettered  communism.
yes, ivy league schools have dim kids, but they do  accept lots of brilliant people as well.
the  audience is composed of seniors.
as a higher education researcher, i am familiar with the evidence addressing under-represented minorities and their achievement.
i’ll add the links here as well: exciting to see courses taught like this on a massive scale, online and free!
unless they can make the case  that their math score is an aberration (e.g., they did well in freshman  calculus), it’s hard for them to move to the top of the pile.
now – when will the first online organization theory courses show up?
that’s what i’m worried about.
the orgs and soc people are extremely well linked,  attend each other’s seminars etc, micro and macro folks work together  (e.g., brayden has a recent piece with the notorious adam g in a psych  outlet), you’ve orgs folks like jeannette colyvas at the ed  school, and you’ve got fascinating interdisciplinary centers like  the one brian uzzi co-directs (nico).
notice that in this description of a bubble, some commodity is circulated and there’s a consistent error that pushes the price up and up each time the commodity changes hands.
the rest are generic and uninformative.
we should also demand that our educators treat all students alike.
first, there is little  variance among letter writers.
thus, there is no cultivation of systematic thinking.
there’s a lot of higher education that won’t get you a job  – arts, philosophy, and do so forth.
unless an institution is engaged in fraud, there’s little reason to pick specifically on for-profit institutions.
i’m glad that langan and other faculty are speaking about the  intellectual consequences of college debt.
as in some bubbles, people are making some sort of gross over estimation of how much some economic resource is worth.
sociology, i think, has a special place at chicago.
studio art, some esoteric types of engineering, and some kinds of youth  counseling have the lowest incomes and high unemployment.
write your own tips in the comments and don’t forget to check out the  grad skool rulz book(it’s cheap).
i give them  some simple task to do.
commercializing that  knowledge, yeah, that’s where the money was.
how much are you willing to spend on the “art world” surrounding your child’s afterschool life?
over time, outside of trying to stay up on promising methodological  developments, i became less attentive to what people were doing in economics.
what becomes of undergraduate dance  majors? was written by sarah montgomery and michael robinson.
some  correlations are real supply and demand.
students can  still get crummy grades even if they learn a fair amount of material.
it is a capstone course.
written by fabiorojas june 9, 2011 at 12:22 am posted in economics, education, fabio with 5 comments the american community survey has great data on college major, employment, and income.
but with the right person,  it can be liberating.
these views have attraced much criticism on this blog.
claim that higher education is a bubble.
given the skyrocketing costs, we are condemning them to decades of student loan servicing when they should be leading happier low debt lives.
but are there full-fledged org design classes out there?
in the 1990s, dance performers (who majored in dance) made about $15k+  less than people who had switched to all non-dance employment graduate education in dance seems to follow employment in dance.
the out-of-school hours are a  huge source of capital-building as well (what i call “competitive kid  capital” in my work on elementary school-age kids involved in the  competitive afterschool activities of chess, dance, and soccer).
then, i usually assess the student.
rather than try to get every kid into college regardless of academic skills, we should focus on people who have the ability and desire to succeed.
after teaching many sections, i offer a few answers to this question.
today it’s not just classroom instruction that creates so much cultural and social capital in childhood.
we find the gems from the liberal arts and public schools of the midwest and south.
lower division topics courses are often grounded in material that is  fairly intuitive for most people.
when asked, i explained it in this way, “the central question in strategy is who gets what, why and for how long.
there’s a signalling of habitus – applicants need the right  interactional skills, the right major, the right extra-curriculars, showing  similarity to the recruiter
to understand, say weber’s, writings, you need to know history, have a broad vocabulary, and be able to read lengthy and complex sentences.
why bother with  this insanely hard major that is badly taught and will punish you with low  grades?
social theory instructors, please leave your comments.
i’m hoping to increase the amount of coverage i give to organizational design.
what ican say is that the bar for strategy research has stealthily gone up over last decade.
notice that in this description of a bubble, some commodity is circulated  and there’s a consistent error that pushes the price up and up each time  the commodity changes hands.
so we have a small section dedicated to org design.
but, they were not the majority and i was smugly comfortable in my belief that, regardless of how frustratingly slow progress in strategy was, the field had little to worry about from economics.
for academic presentations, i think simplicity is good.
the more i do admissions, they more flaws i see.
written by teppo november 9, 2011 at 8:33 pm posted in academia, education, productivity and performance why job hungry students choose useless majors with 14 comments last week, i linked to data showing that the growth degrees awarded has  often come from non-vocational areas (nva), such as the humanities.
we find the gems from  the liberal arts and public schools of the midwest and south.
i read transcripts carefully to spot  praiseworthy or suspicious behavior (e.g., lots of withdrawals, hard courses,  upward trajectories).
as a blogger, i do enjoy the debate, but  there’s a more important reason for supporting an unpopular view: i am a  “college realist.”
among  sociology courses, it’s probably the most demanding course, along with  statistics and intro.
the photo was taken at the restaurant prairie moon.
few students possess all of these skills at once, which is why the grades are lower than in comparable majors.
and the cost  would be zero.
even if mixed  classes lead to more gender mixing, teachers may still preferentially treat  males.
after-school activities have become so commodified, with little to no  regulation of their practices.
let’s get straight to it: math and computer science (as a group) tops it off at $98k.
that’s why it’s good to consult with colleagues from those nations if there’s a candidate who might be a good fit.
rollins for running a company that offers courses on the western canon.
there’s an old paper in the journal of cultural economics on the careers of undergraduate dance majors.
i bet a few hard science types would be happy to tack it on as a double major.
i was hoping we would get into some issues related to performativity and markets – but paul had the students read about the jepperson and meyer debate.
so, bottom line – if you are considering an orgs phd (i know we have  a few readers in this boat), then northwestern better be at the top of your  list.
(in case you are wondering, btw, years later when i was a rookie phd, i interviewed at chicago.
with 8 comments i have played around a bit with prezi, the whizbang presentation  software that tedsters, hans rosling (actually, here’s gapminder)  and other cool people use.
knowing nothing else about the students, like gpa, sat, or ses, i can account for a lot of variance by just seeing if they show up and hand in assignments.
in some fields, like engineering, they surpass nearly all  private institutions (except maybe mit or cal tech).
evidence about sex typing doesn’t address teacher interaction.
formal schooling is a tool to an end.
consider the typical experience of a freshman in a big science department: adding insult to injury, a lot of fields, like physics, have poor job prospects, especially for people with only a ba.
the explanation is fairly simple.
of course, tenure clocks are used in different ways at different schools.
i guess it would be fair to say that i found the strategy literature sadly wanting in comparison to the precision and mathematical sophistication i was used to in the finance literature (mind you, this was as apractitioner ).
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas december 1, 2011 at 12:16 am posted in economics, education, fabio college fundamentalism vs. college realism with 24 comments i have argued that we have too much college.
and that’s a good thing.
we’ll read the wiki for each, watch some documentaries, etc.
people consistently buy something hoping to quickly sell it off.
this suggests that intensive supplemental work, which may be focused on one group, may be effective.
some take home  points: dance majors tend to give the career about 10 years before switching to  non-dance.
a lot of our star students, who go on to dominate the job market, were high performers at relatively low status schools.
almost all the papers are from 2000 on.
a while ago, i wrote a post at marginal revolution called “thoughts on a berkeley education.”
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 4, 2011 at 12:35 am posted in education, fabio with 2 comments that’s the name of a new article in the journal science claiming that single sex (ss) schools do not lead to better learning outcomes.
but it’s a big deal when when *lots* of people major in areas with poor job prospects.
it  shows that the growth in awarded college degrees has come from people majoring  outside the sciences and engineering.
higher  education is second fiddle.
a research group at georgetown has analyzed this data to show  correlations between college major and income.
a news report indicates that poetry professor & pulitzer prize  winner geoffrey o’brien was beaten by police at berkeley.
but with the right person, it can be liberating.
i’m finding myself at a loss, since you can’t exactly get much out of asking, “so… are you hard working?”
i’m still wondering - what makes for a good academic presentation?
we need to raise the reading level of majors and send a consistent message that sociology is not a bunch of topics, it’s a school of thought that isn’t different from any other science that compares theory with data.
writing samples are good measures on general writing, but  still, i am reluctant to make a decision on a product that was often not  originally intended to be research sociology (e.g., a term paper in history or  a policy report).
gre correlations with degree attainment and research productivity were consistently positive; however, some lower 90% credibility intervals included 0.
written by fabiorojas june 9, 2011 at 12:22 am posted in economics, education, fabio the value of your college major with 5 comments the american community survey has great data on college major, employment,  and income.
i then merged attendance, assignment completion, and  midterm performance data.
this suggests that intensive supplemental work,  which may be focused on one group, may be effective.
the second part of the course will be the traditional social science approach to movements (e.g. theories of grievances, recruitment, etc.).
the study included samples from multiple disciplines, considered different criterion measures, and corrected for statistical artifacts.
another booth featured a business specializing in cookies, popcorn, and other snacks, which can then be sold by teams, at a marked up price, as part of fundraising efforts.
we should really be asking tough questions about higher education finances in general.
they trade thousands of dollars  (that they don’t have) for an education that is supposed to land them a  job that pays even more than what their education cost.
i found the quantity and  quality of work cited, frankly, jaw-dropping.
i felt sorry (for him) that i couldn’t bring him around in that discussion.
what langan, and  others, have experienced is neither normal or necessary.
if you are the kind of  person who can follow the rules, you’ll probably do well.
so what short texts are good descriptions of these movements?
a lot of sociological research is not narrative, like history.
they know profs  are looking for hard working people who need boring work done.
for example,one often cited study has claimed that asian american  benefit from a strong peer counseling network  that is non-existent for  african americans.
among students who have exhibited conservative opinions, getting them into upper level sociology is like pulling teeth.
admissions committees often have trouble interpreting applications from foreign countries.
with her permission, valerie from new hampshire wrote the  following: i’m a reader of orgtheory and i enjoy the grad school rulz stuff from  your blog (i love professional development type things).
for example, liberals dominate in fields that are not political, like math.
yes,some people love milton, but most humanities majors are there because they mildly enjoy the topic and need to get a degree.
however, college education is a form of human capital.
most sociology majors could earn more money, but they insist on service oriented jobs, like teaching and social work, that suprress their wages.
when asked, i  explained it in this way, “the central question in strategy is who gets  what, why and for how long.
and, certain types of work (ethnographies) and certain types of publishing (books) can take quite long.
i’ll add the links here as well: chuck eesley (stanford) is teaching a course on technology  entrepreneurship.
written by fabiorojas may 15, 2011 at 12:57 am posted in economics, education, fabio an inconvenient truth about gre scores with 87 comments there’s a lot of skepticism about gre’s and their role in  graduate admissions.
random thoughts: statements are good for sorting students, but only broadly.
in my mba organization theory class i have used the following org  design-related materials: nitin nohria’s succinctnote on organization  structure along with his appex case, the oticon case (with nicolai’s  excellentorganization science piece on oticon as extra  reading), and then miscellaneous readings that touch on issues such as  legitimacy and structure (so, for example, we’ve read meyer & rowan,  also an old mintzbergmanagement science piece) as well as some  readings related to self-organization.
with 12 comments the ny times has a forum on a new regulation that would reduce financial  aid to for-profit entities that havelow student loan repayment rates: under a rule announced june 1, the department of education will cut off  federal financial aid for any for-profit program if its graduates have a lot of student loan debt and low repayment rates.
but first, what do you think should be the main goal of the course?
when i asked him what journal articles he was putting in his mba course, he did a spit-take and said, “wall street journal articles.”
the class readings list is rather exploratory.
forget about classes  taught by the grey-hairs (you know, classes in which some big-shot ex-executive  sits around and regales students with war stories) — total waste of time,  in our view.
scott page (michigan) is teaching a course on model thinking.
while there are gendered differences in brain anatomy, they claim that there is no link to learning.
from internal data, i know sociology gives lower grades than the rest of the college of arts and sciences, which gives lower grades than the rest of the university.
we have to do a better job getting the most engaged social science students.
they once even had a protestin favor of a foreign language requirement.
people will rightfully resent education and the labor  market.
to me it seems that students (and mainly parents) do in fact treat college as a tradable commodity.
they spend their whole career in topics courses that do not emphasize the basics of theory, the casting empirical topics as evidence for broader concepts.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas october 25, 2011 at 12:32 am posted in academia, education, fabio, just theory with 6 comments is organizational design being taught anywhere anymore?
they are more like schools that get an annual state grant.
some schools pride themselves on rejecting tenure candidates – so perhaps a short clock makes sense there.
the issue is separating out  madison as an independent “public authority,” which, if i  understand correctly, gives it this sort of independent status.
we look for diamonds in the rough.
my version: the background that a student would need is about 1 year of calculus and some computer literacy.
with respect to graduate admissions, this basically says “go with gre scores and grades unless there is strong credible signalling.”
deans allocate ftes (faculty lines) and graduate program class  sizes (# of phd students) based on a combination of merit and, more  importantly, enrollments.
written by fabiorojas may 9, 2011 at 2:18 am posted in academia, education, fabio the failure of *public* higher education with 4 comments you should definitely read olderwoman’s lengthy discussion of the  university of wisconsin at the scatterplot blog.
what were the big outcomes of the  communist movement?
i often reach out to high achieving undergraduates to sign up for the sociology major or senior level courses, regardless of what i think their political attitudes may be.
also, you have to work extra hard to distinguish  between students who are more interested in migration than the academic career.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 3, 2011 at 12:09 am posted in education, fabio with 6 comments one of the highlights of my visit to northwestern was a chance to sit in on paul hirsch’s “macro-organization behavior” doctoral seminar (well, and the subsequent dinner pictured below – sorry, that was the best shot we were able to get).
i find people by talking about ra’ships in my courses.
now, those who have followed the  narrative to this point will say, “yes, but it’s work on productivity — that means the interest is still all about  efficiency!”
consider the typical experience of a freshman in  a big science department: they are a decent student in an american high school.
education researchers spend more time, relatively speaking, on access (getting people into college) than impact (see how it matters).
i’m in touch with some of our graduates and  structure is a matter that they constantly wrestle with.
sometimes it’s language, sometimes it’s simply a different grading system.
however, college education  is a form of human capital.
it is for these reasons that i think sociology should be required upon  entry to the sociology major.
i have lectures, so many potential recruits.
instead, they get this frankenstein major that requires some math, some philosophy, analytical/deductive thinking, and clear writing.
third, social theory is taught at an intellectual level that towers above most other sociology courses.
it’s not a problem if *some* people  major in fields with poor job prospects.
my main disagreement disagreement is in their response that ss schooling  can effectively counter the issue of teachers treating male and female students  differently.
as i wrote a few weeks ago, the leading state schools aren’t  really “state” schools.
different sets of individuals, organizations, and businesses  play a role in producing child competitors and winners, just as it takes an  “art world” to create an artist or a piece of art (a la becker).
becker’s argument was  that education resulted in higher income because schools trained people in  various skills and thus create human capital.
though,  i have seen several people not get tenure somewhere, move to a  “higher-ranked” school and then get tenure shortly  thereafter.
indiana, like many schools,  allows students to postpone theory as long as they want.
in my response, i relied on a distinction made by the economist gary becker: physical capital vs. human capital.
thus, something else is happening in higher education.
for many  teachers and coaches these afterschool activities are the basis of their  livelihoods.
as a blogger, i do enjoy the debate, but there’s a more important reason for supporting an unpopular view: i am a “college realist.”
(i do look back and marvel at the level of  hubris that propelled me on my way — though, without it, where would any  of us be in this academic hustle?)
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 3, 2011 at 12:09 am posted in education, fabio northwestern phd students with 6 comments one of the highlights of my visit to northwestern was a chance to sit in on  paul hirsch’s “macro-organization behavior” doctoral seminar  (well, and the subsequent dinner pictured below – sorry, that was the  best shot we were able to get).
switch to a different field, get decent grades, and have a real career.
o.w. wrote that some people  focused on tuition in a world without public research institutions.
one should learn to succeed in the world as it is.
i think there is a  middle way.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.
in some fields, like engineering, they surpass nearly all private institutions (except maybe mit or cal tech).
so why did i title this post “the failure of public higher education?”
first, public research institutions have done remarkably well in the competition.
not surprisingly, they are often puzzled about the goal  of the course when they finally get to it.
to me it seems that students (and mainly parents) do  in fact treat college as a tradable commodity.
these entrepreneurs are surrounded by constellations of other entrepreneurs who charge for additional services—like those who sell clothing and shoes needed to participate in an activity, or publish magazines and books about the activities.
the comments on the original post suggest that at a number  of schools sociology tends to be harder than most majors in terms of grades.
this was the 90s and, for those who are not aware of it, the methodological advances in economics were really expanding at that time: game theoretic learning, evolutionary economics, behavioral economics, computational methods … cool technological approaches that held some promise in tackling the complexities inherent in the strategy problem domain.
and it’s maintained its position  since then.
indiana, like many schools, allows students to postpone theory as long as they want.
that way, the state university could be free from state regulations while maintaining its mission to serve the local population.
i am also  interested in why you chose it.
instead, i would like to see some sort of cost-benefit analysis added to the way that we charge people for education.
we reject the overwhelming  majority of applicants, including many who will go on and have great careers in  sociology.
for example, there was a booth for a company that sold the paint used to paint the lines on soccer fields.
we should think of those who run organizations related to children’s  afterschool activities as entrepreneurs (note that they are usually part of the  formal economy, but can be part of the informal economy as well).
this theory is called signalling.
i was particularly struck by this when i attended a state soccer expo and saw vendors selling products i had not previously considered vital to the travel soccer enterprise.
chicago is not exactly a touchy feely place.
(again,  sorry about the photo quality – it was the best shot we got, even with my  all-powerful 4s.)
this all suggests to me that college education should be  focused, not given to all who ask.
they are thrown into a large lecture class with little supervision, except  maybe the once a week lab or discussion section.
ok, i promise this will be the last post for a while about college majors  and income.
this is not to say there weren’t always great economists in the bi-curious category.
the wealthy will take of themselves.
so, i specialized in finance (what else?) and launched into an exciting  decade+ of business practice.
for example,one often cited study has claimed that asian american benefit from a strong peer counseling network that is non-existent for african americans.
we picked a set of readings that sounded fun and interesting (some classics as well as recent stuff).
of course, tenure clocks are used in different ways at different  schools.
first, some downsides.
check out this 2001 article from psychological bulletin.
after the boom in public colleges in the 1960s, there began a slow whittling away of public support as legislatures gave more and more money to other budget items such as k-12 education, police, prisons, and public sector employee compensation.
i need a lot of facts, but i am trying to keep the reading reasonable and the total book costs low.
if i were to advise foreign applicants, i’d insist that they show that they “get it” (i.e., understand academia) and have a credible signal of commitment to academia.
no, we wanted the meaty stuff.
at many programs, including my own, there is no logical sequencing of courses.
gre’s aren’t perfect, but they sure seem to do the job.
it shows, using a yearly survey of freshmen, that college students are becoming more interested in making money.
you might call them the stereotype sociology undergrads.
i guess it would be fair to say that i found the strategy literature sadly  wanting in comparison to the precision and mathematical sophistication i was  used to in the finance literature (mind you, this was as apractitioner ).
entitled, “what determines  productivity?”
written by teppo october 14, 2011 at 7:18 pm posted in bleg, education with 18 comments i’ve been the main undergraduate social theory teacher at indiana since 2005.
iu  has great students.
students are actually interested in the readings and aren’t just day  dreaming about that sweet post-graduation finance job.
they often have bad language  skills.
book adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 11, 2011 at 12:15 am posted in culture, economics, education, fabio how long is the optimal tenure clock?
they also have decent  verbal scores, but bad to miserable math scores.
it’s a strategy that requires reading folders closely, but it pays off in spades.
the reason  that prices have to eventually go down is that the underlying value  hasn’t risen.
but then, henderson approvingly quotes heather macdonald’s article on rollins and his company.
i’ve seen a lot of letters by bosses, academic advisers,  project supervisors, and so forth.
so, what is the “optimal” tenure clock?
i’ve taught multiple sections every year that  i’ve been in residence, until this year when we bundled everyone together  into a lecture.
on the one hand, as many have pointed out, rising costs limit access.
my sense is that there’s a large opportunity  that’s been passed on.
with respect to the debate we had about useless college majors, the main  point is that dance is probably like many fields in that it is very hard  to continue after graduation.
but producers, who need to make money, advertise that the products will make participation more convenient, or improve a child’s performance, thus making a purchase “required.”
the second part of the course will be the traditional social science approach  to movements (e.g. theories of grievances, recruitment, etc.).
but the difference is that there’s no  ponzi scheme since you can’t sell or transfer your college degree to  someone else for an even higher price.
furthermore, lower  division topics courses (e.g., crime or gender) rarely cast their topic in  terms of general sociological arguments.
now that i’ve done it a bunch of times, both in seminar and large lecture format, i am now collecting my thoughts on the meaning of this course.
the authors,diane halpern of claremont and seven others, claim higher scores  for ss students are results of selection bias and sample censoring: for example, students at a public middle school in the southwest united  states boast higher test scores than most students in their district.
it’s far above what we normally ask of them.
similarly, modern college students are more interested in financial stability, not philosophical issues.
another  booth featured a business specializing in cookies, popcorn, and other snacks,  which can then be sold by teams, at a marked up price, as part of fundraising  efforts.
buyers want the comfort of the  ivy league brand, so there’s a premium.
some cool collaboration options (haven’t tried them though) handles images beautifully gimmicky very gimmicky remember that first 1995 presentation you saw with slide transitions, you  know, where the presenter proudly smirked with each transition – prezi  feels like that (i  saw someone present with prezi and the emphasis  clearly was on the fact that the presenter was using prezi, not the content) shoot me if someone pulls up with their ipad2 and plugs in a prezi –
written by fabiorojas july 1, 2011 at 12:43 am posted in academia, education, fabio, political science with 12 comments the ny times has a forum on a new regulation that would reduce financial aid to for-profit entities that havelow student loan repayment rates: under a rule announced june 1, the department of education will cut off federal financial aid for any for-profit program if its graduates have a lot of student loan debt and low repayment rates.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 5, 2011 at 12:01 am posted in academia, education, fabio, grad school rulz, sociology useless college majors with 30 comments over at the marginal revolution, alex tabarrok posted a nice chart.
while there are likely some cases  of that, the evidence was always weak for discrimination as a general  explanation.
if the applicant is interested in social work or activism, academic  sociology isn’t a good fit.
a working paper called “political liberalism and graduate school attendance: a longitudinal analysis” reports the following: this paper analyzes longitudinal data to evaluate three claims that are key to a recently developed theory of professorial politics.
for example: so totalitarian is the contemporary university that professors have written  to rollins complaining that his courses are too canonical in content and do not  include enough of the requisite “silenced” voices.
rarely did a textbook accompany a class.
college realism: college is good for some people, but maybe not for  everyone.
the audience is composed of seniors.
i think there are three positions one can take toward education: there are educational skeptics.
and surprise, the evidence points toward self-selection.
asr, oliver amr and thornton-ocasio ajs — important papers), paul asked me to send him some recent work of mine.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 23, 2011 at 6:29 pm posted in economics, education, fabio with 8 comments eighty percent of success is showing up.
social theory is hard to teach for different reasons.
a handful of students  skipped four or more daily write ups, thus wildly exceeding the “free  pass” rule.
the delay was caused in part by the initial  haste: the officers trying to write the reports had no idea who the arresting  officers were, and therefore no idea of what we should be charged with.
early-on, i tried to get my io friends interested in the issues that so animated my own research.
it’s called“a comprehensive meta-analysis of the predictive validity of the graduate record examinations: implications for graduate student selection and performance.
as long as dance education is inexpensive, that’s not such a big deal.
a lot  of people simply don’t have the academic ability or maturity for college.
so they need something, which turns out to be these other areas.
rather, the big debate is between college fundamentalists and college realists.
for example, liberals dominate in fields that are not political,  like math.
my guess  is that further training allows successful dance to become instructors because  dance is hard to do at later ages.
i’ll probably stick with  good ol’ keynote, google and/or ppt – until further notice.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas january 5, 2012 at 5:27 am posted in academia, education, fabio, sociology with 9 comments
any other interpretations?
what other resources would you recommend for this audience?
but i still want people to read a good “here’s the facts”  summary for each case.
we do read a lot of folders in detail because iu employs a sort of  “moneyball” strategy.
students are actually interested in the readings and aren’t just day dreaming about that sweet post-graduation finance job.
after the boom in public colleges in the 1960s, there began a slow whittling  away of public support as legislatures gave more and more money to other budget  items such as k-12 education, police, prisons, and public sector employee  compensation.
we need to stop that from happening further.
some quick takes on prezi.
up  to speed and 10 years ahead of practice in a few sittings.
the comments on the original post suggest that at a number of schools sociology tends to be harder than most majors in terms of grades.
i am not an enemy of humanities but i believe that higher education must be carefully managed.
but it’s a big deal when when *lots*  of people major in areas with poor job prospects.
thus, you have an incentive to created bloated  undergraduate majors, which leads to more grad students.
ok, i promise this will be the last post for a while about college majors and income.
i.e., asian american college students build lots of study groups that others don’t.
the results indicated that the gre and ugpa are generalizably valid predictors of graduate grade point average, ist-year graduate grade point average, comprehensive examination scores, publication citation counts, and faculty ratings.
because parents are willing to invest a lot of money in these activities,  there is a lot of money to be made.
second, social theory often comes at the end of the sociology major and is  not integrated with the rest of the curriculum.
written by fabiorojas may 9, 2011 at 2:18 am posted in academia, education, fabio with 4 comments you should definitely read olderwoman’s lengthy discussion of the university of wisconsin at the scatterplot blog.
the folks with rock bottom  gre’s and a 2.9 gpa won’t get more than a quick glance, if that.
i collected two behavioral/discipline  variables: did the students show up to two randomly selected classes and did  students use their “free pass,” which allows them to skip a daily  writing assignment.
if there are org design folks anywhere out there – i would be eager  to hear what materials you have successfully utilized.
we’ll only meet four times, so there isn’t room for a whole lot.
let me take this opportunity to make a few comments and  open it up for discussion.
matthew jackson and yoav shoham (stanford) are teaching a course on game  theory.
this was the 90s and, for those who  are not aware of it, the methodological advances in economics were really  expanding at that time: game theoretic learning, evolutionary economics,  behavioral economics, computational methods … cool technological  approaches that held some promise in tackling the complexities inherent in the  strategy problem domain.
at a competitive r1 school, i’d imagine that you could get 3-4 majors per year.
sociology isn’t nuclear physics, but there some reasons to think that sociology is harder than it looks.
the results: the r-squared?
it turns out that neil gross, jeremy freese and ethan fosse have a series of papers testing the self-selection hypothesis.
the chicago attitude isn’t always “get  published,” it’s “write something that’s really  important.”
and, certain types of work (ethnographies) and  certain types of publishing (books) can take quite long.
these  entrepreneurs are surrounded by constellations of other entrepreneurs who  charge for additional services—like those who sell clothing and shoes  needed to participate in an activity, or publish magazines and books about the  activities.
these studies, if i understand them, are about separating students into two groups within a class.
for academic presentations, i think  simplicity is good.
maybe we should have rules barring financial aid for degrees that have horrible job prospects(see here).
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas january 30, 2012 at 12:09 am posted in academia, education, fabio with 8 comments matt yglesias has a short article at slate about stem (science, technology, engineering, and math).
written by teppo october 27, 2011 at 4:08 am posted in education with 9 comments previously on orgtheory: the social theory poll/goals of the social theory course this week, i want to talk about why social theory is hard to teach.
now that i’ve done it a bunch of times, both in seminar  and large lecture format, i am now collecting my thoughts on the meaning of  this course.
in technical fields, people are recruited from all over the world.
yes, there are other  prestigious departments, but chicago’s program was one of the first,  possibly the first, in the 1890s.
students are attracted to sociology because it’s accessible and many think it will be easy.
second, the public  research school has done a good job educating lots of people,myself included.
behind the culturally celebrated veil of competition then is an elaborate infrastructure and industry that organizes, supports, and promotes organized children’s activities, and in turn shapes the daily lives of many american families.
i was somewhat surprised when  he, in so many words, told me i was full of it.
chicago is a truly unique institution, but not because it is highy ranked in  the academic world.
adding insult to injury,  a lot of fields, like physics, have poor job  prospects, especially for people with only a ba.
at the risk of public ridicule –here’s a draft of the  syllabus.
here are iu, we read through every single application.
the place just exudes this atmosphere  that is really hard to find at other schools, even other top notch universities.
halpern at al claim, correctly, that separating students prevent students from cooperating and increases sex typing (e.g., girls act more feminine).
typically, 3 minutes into describing something i was  working on to a respected io colleague, i could see the eyes glaze over and  hear the responses go on autopilot.
the introductory sociology course is hard because there is no  standard and you get a wide range of students, from scared freshmen to  apathetic sixth year seniors.
how much are you willing to spend on the  “art world” surrounding your child’s afterschool life?
forget about classes taught by the grey-hairs (you know, classes in which some big-shot ex-executive sits around and regales students with war stories) — total waste of time, in our view.
of course,  some folders get more attention than others.
i don’t  want long books, but essays, encyclopedia entries, journalistic summaries,  contexts articles, etc.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 17, 2011 at 2:04 pm posted in academia, education, fabio, psychology thoughts on a chicago graduate education with 3 comments
i don’t think you can go wrong there – fantastic scholars and an interdisciplinary, collaborative environment.
generally,  it’s very hard to get under-performing groups to do better.
(i do look back and marvel at the level of hubris that propelled me on my way — though, without it, where would any of us be in this academic hustle?)
i have a question to pose for a next edition– how do you find and hire good research assistants?
gre correlations with degree attainment  and research productivity were consistently positive; however, some lower 90%  credibility intervals included 0.
if so, it should be discussed.
written by teppo november 14, 2011 at 6:27 am posted in academia, education, productivity and performance with 3 comments 1.
eventually, though, i knew i would win him over.
so when you go the room with the dissertations, you are seeing a room with dissertation ranging from erving goffman to andy abbott.
the writer ivan illich argued that we needed to  “deschool” society.
i like “useless college  majors,” but debt undermines the humanities and other fields  (like sociology!).
with respect to graduate admissions, this basically says “go with gre  scores and grades unless there is strong credible signalling.”
i do not take a religious stance toward education.
for now, it seems that the research question, idea  itself and you have to shine.
it’s like  taking a course in western civ.
consider the post calledwhat i thought, at age 16, academia was supposed to be by david henderson.
some correlations are real supply and demand.
it is a wide-ranging survey paper that collects and  organizes work in economics on persistent differences in firm productivity  levels.
add your admissions questions and remarks in the comments.
the journalist v1.9 by lucian e. marin.
book adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 16, 2011 at 12:19 am posted in education, fabio prezi for academic presentations?
but i noticed that after the arrest, they took sweet time—something like four hours—to write reports and “book” us, and then, after another four or five hours, to release us from jail.
clearly, such products are only sometimes necessary.
the folk wisdom seems to be that gre’s aren’t terribly useful.
you don’t learn many job skills in college, but employers pay more for college graduates because they have shown a basic level of discipline and intelligence.
why not cut  financial aid to non-profits?
in the social sciences, there’s a big debate over schooling and income.
celeste langan has blogged about her arrest by the berkeley police  department: as to why i was there: as a tenured professor (and tenure can be defined as  a right granted to occupy a position on campus without threat of eviction for  expressing dissent)
sure, in polls, people may talk about the importance of education, but in state budgets, the message is clear.
third, social theory is taught at an intellectual level that towers above  most other sociology courses.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 17, 2011 at 2:04 pm posted in academia, education, fabio, psychology with 3 comments
there are also field  specific self-selection effects.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 4, 2011 at 12:35 am posted in education, fabio the pseudoscience of single-sex schooling with 2 comments that’s the name of a new article in the journal science claiming that single sex (ss) schools do not lead to better learning outcomes.
many have already made a  choice to major in other topics.
data from 1,753 independent samples were included in the meta-analysis, yielding 6,589 correlations for 8 different criteria and 82,659 graduate students.
the 70 year old  (!) professor suffered broken ribs after being hit by police batons.
i knew nothing  about strategy at the time —
you don’t  learn many job skills in college, but employers pay more for college graduates  because they have shown a basic level of discipline and intelligence.
i often  reach out to high achieving undergraduates to sign up for the sociology major  or senior level courses, regardless of what i think their political attitudes  may be.
people  (including banks) started believing that housing prices would just go up and  up, which then justified all kinds of crazy loans.
this is an average statement, of course.
let me take this opportunity to make a few comments and open it up for discussion.
at chicago, it has the distinction of having  been the birthplace of a discipline.
the key to understanding the chicago experience is that it is based on purely intellectual pursuits.
in spring 2012, i will be teaching a course on social movements.
we examine whether in fact young americans who identify as liberal are  more likely to enroll in graduate programs with the intention of completing a  doctorate; the proposition that such a tendency cannot be explained away by  variables unrelated to occupational reputation; and the claim, also made by the  theory, that exposure to many years of higher education is not a major  cause of the liberalism of graduate students.
being conservative is probably correlated with certain attitudes toward work, such a desire for high compensation, that are hard to satisfy in the academy.
my goal isn’t to  discourage able and committed people from college.
the leading flagships – berkeley, ann arbor, michigan, etc. – have research records comparable to elite privates.
thus, we shouldn’t encourage those people to go.
it’s hard to assign credit to specific people in these  industries.
the delay was caused in part by the initial haste: the officers trying to write the reports had no idea who the arresting officers were, and therefore no idea of what we should be charged with.
generally, it’s very hard to get under-performing groups to do better.
they also claim that there is no evidence that male and female brains  operate differently with respect to learning.
my view, as i’ve stated before on this blog, is simply that  there’s a massive self-selection process at work.
sociology  isn’t nuclear physics, but there some reasons to think that sociology is  harder than it looks.
my old micro prof, sam peltzman, took me to dinner.
bonus round by sociologist gaye tuchman.
alexis  de tocqueville search for:
it is for these reasons that i think sociology should be required upon entry to the sociology major.
so it can’t be a bubble, at least they way most people talk about bubbles.
consider this a follow up – my thoughts  on my doctoral education at chicago.
paul’s seminar consists of first and second year students in the organizations and/or sociology phd programs.
the opposite is true.
written by teppo october 14, 2011 at 7:18 pm posted in bleg, education orgtheory poll: the undergraduate social theory class with 18 comments take our poll i’ve been the main undergraduate social theory teacher at  indiana since 2005.
thus, you have an incentive to created bloated undergraduate majors, which leads to more grad students.
what were the big outcomes of the communist movement?
of course there were.
a few weeks ago, i noted that indiana sociology is one of the stingiest  graders in the university.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas october 13, 2011 at 1:33 am posted in education, fabio, just theory, sociology wise not to turn your back on ‘em … economists, that is with 7 comments looking back on it, getting an mba at the university of chicago (1981) is  really what led me to academia.
though the cloud might obviate that i’ll probably be using prezi in some settings (btw: you can explore  prezi presentations here).
what is problematic is that children’s
as students, we knew we were there to learn the latest-and-greatest academic thinking.
in particular, they make a living by both creating competitive kid capitaland sustaining a base of families who believe that kid capital is essential to future success.
first, there is little variance among letter writers.
also, it’s hard to get experimental evidence but there is observational evidence.
so, then, why are job hungry students flooding non-vocational areas?
and we should dismantle higher education.
sociology for example, studies all kinds of  deviant behavior and the faculty tend to skew liberal, not the sort of thing  that attracts conservatives.
but i prefer to talk through the issues.
as surveys have shown, professors tend to be politically liberal, much more than the rest of the population.
many students lack the ability or maturity to complete college.
for a certain  segment of the market, there is a huge over investment in human capital.
written by teppo december 8, 2011 at 6:45 am posted in education with 21 comments two conflicting themes about elite institutions: 1.
pictures on the front porch  of the house with child in first-day-of-school attire (posted to facebook, of  course)?
some, like  nathan hare and gerald mcwhorter, went on to foundother disciplines  like ethnic studies.
so people go to college to avoid service sector and manual work.
and, if so, what materials are used?
well, the empirical record shows that the public isn’t  terribly interested in this record.
at some point, i started consulting and, at some point after that, i was asked to work on a strategy project.
while people don’t intentionally teach bad, they do in practice because there is no reason to do otherwise.
if the tool fails to do its  job, i can live without it.
i’d focus on faculty funding formulas.
in the social science and humanities, funding is  mainly internal.
faculty and graduate student funding in the sciences relies heavily on external income sources.
they also do their best to arrest the small fraction of violent protesters.
thus, they simply lack the general language of  social science.
written by teppo december 8, 2011 at 6:45 am posted in education ivy league admissions vs. ivy league job prospects with 21 comments two conflicting themes about elite institutions: 1.
there is a world of childhood activities organized to  profit from parents who are concerned about their children’s  futures.
yes, being on the opposite side  of things can be tough, but the evidence shows that conservatives, on the  average, aren’t even trying to make careers in the academy.
if they do know, why do they  keep hiring these people?
my goal isn’t to discourage able and committed people from college.
the stuff you learned can’t be transferred to another person, no matter how much they pay.
the rest of my comments are directed at faculty who are serving on  admissions committees.
for example: so totalitarian is the contemporary university that professors have written to rollins complaining that his courses are too canonical in content and do not include enough of the requisite “silenced” voices.
human capital simply can’t be transferred.
we - the higher education  community – should instead work on identifying promising young people  from less wealthy families and building financial resources, like endowments  and grants, that will make college affordable for these people.
nuclear engineering, which has  very high unemployment, reflects a shrinking industry.
in 1971, about 50% went to college to make money.
i’m particularly interested in non-phd student ras, but i  assume there are similar principles.
class skipping is  associated with a 10.1% grade drop.
the profile of the letter writer is that they are an active teacher and researcher.
after all, novelists, artists, and other creative types improve the world in important ways.
rather,  it’s a truly intellectual place.
(d) consumption good – they simply value the  four years a lot.
we need to raise the reading level of majors and  send a consistent message that sociology is not a bunch of topics, it’s a  school of thought that isn’t different from any other science that  compares theory with data.
furthermore, there’s evidence that college is overpriced relative  to future earnings.
here is what i wrote back: for undergrads, i use the following rules: they need to have taken a course from me and get a b or higher, or they need a reference from another prof and a 3.0 gpa or higher.
rather, there has been a 40 year decline in  the relative contribution by state legislatures to public university budgets.
about 30% of our grades are a’s, making us the 10th toughest grader in the university.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas january 30, 2012 at 12:09 am posted in academia, education, fabio matt yglesias kind of gets it right on science profs and  science majors with 8 comments matt yglesias has a short article at slate about stem (science, technology,  engineering, and math).
the knee jerk reaction to  proposal to limit or shrink college education is a symptom.
in my response, i relied on a distinction  made by the economist gary becker: physical capital vs. human capital.
human capital is the skill that someone has  that allows them to gain income from the market.
a lot of  our star students, who go on to dominate the job market, were high performers  at relatively low status schools.
according to the aclu, they then violated procedure by not releasing us  immediately after issuing the misdemeanor citations.
in certain contexts, rule breaking is wonderful, but life usually requires rule following and a measure of self-discipline.
this has  lead some folks, like arnold kling,to conjecture that this is a result of  anti-profit mentalities among students.
book adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 16, 2011 at 12:19 am posted in education, fabio with 8 comments i have played around a bit with prezi, the whizbang presentation software that tedsters, hans rosling (actually, here’s gapminder) and other cool people use.
the typical intro course often relies on streamlined textbooks.
my old micro prof, sam peltzman,  took me to dinner.
unless ss education had  unambiguously strong effects, we should probably not be doing it.
the photo was taken at the restaurant prairie moon.
grading is often punitive – curves are often used.
the way it rubs off on graduate students, for better or worse, is that phd students are allowed to think big, be ambitious.
the issue is separating out madison as an independent “public authority,” which, if i understand correctly, gives it this sort of independent status.
the gap, as i mentioned, is often attributed to  speculation.
to test this hypothesis, i conducted a simple statistical test with data  from my social theory class (n=73).
readers may think i’m anti-humanities.
letters of recommendation: my opinion of letters continues to slide over  time.
they’ve done at reasonable price (until recently) and with a world class  faculty.
first, many  students are attracted to the topics of sociology (e.g., race) not the general  idea of testing social theories.
for example, i have read many letters that insisted the student was top notch (top 1% or 5%), yet the gre’s and gpa were clearly atrocious.
so, i specialized in finance (what else?) and launched into an exciting decade+ of business practice.
when we make education into  a high priced job placement test, it undermines the liberal arts.
i have a question to  pose for a next edition– how do you find and hire good research  assistants?
so, bottom line – if you are considering an orgs phd (i know we have a few readers in this boat), then northwestern better be at the top of your list.
rather, there has been a 40 year decline in the relative contribution by state legislatures to public university budgets.
i’m finding myself at a loss, since you can’t exactly get much  out of asking, “so… are you hard working?”
the gap, as i mentioned, is often attributed to speculation.
sociology for example, studies all kinds of deviant behavior and the faculty tend to skew liberal, not the sort of thing that attracts conservatives.
and  please, no namby pamby “these aren’t mutually exclusive,  let’s all hold hands.”
my view, as i’ve stated before on this blog, is simply that there’s a massive self-selection process at work.
we need to  stop that from happening further.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas january 5, 2012 at 5:27 am posted in academia, education, fabio, sociology social movement bleg: source materials on specific movements with 9 comments
so i am spending one week for each of these four movements.
we should think of those who run organizations related to children’s afterschool activities as entrepreneurs (note that they are usually part of the formal economy, but can be part of the informal economy as well).
the implied message is that this course is hard and not terribly relevant.
profits are high because prices are high; teachers and coaches can charge a lot since there are often not many competitors in their areas of expertise, which would help keep prices down.
written by fabiorojas july 1, 2011 at 12:43 am posted in academia, education, fabio, political science why stop at cutting financial aid for for-profit colleges?
there are also personality selection effects.
written by teppo january 7, 2012 at 4:27 am posted in education sociology is harder than you think with 17 comments
i’ve heard that they’ve reformed  graduate student financial support, which is welcome.
first, departments vary in their strategies and procedures.
but, they were not the majority and
for conservative critics of the academy, i have a simple message based on my reading of this research paper and others.
i.e., asian american college students build lots of study  groups that others don’t.
i’m still wondering - what makes for a good academic  presentation?
so, then, why are job hungry students flooding non-vocational  areas?
rather, the big debate is between college fundamentalists and  college realists.
i’d be surprised if the engineering professor knew the politics of the  new guy from kazakhstan, unless he made a big deal out of it.
up to speed and 10 years ahead of practice in a few sittings.
unless ss education had unambiguously strong effects, we should probably not be doing it.
human capital is the skill that someone has that allows them to gain income from the market.
i’ve heard that they’ve reformed graduate student financial support, which is welcome.
the place just exudes this atmosphere that is really hard to find at other schools, even other top notch universities.
the report by jeffrey carneval, joeff strohl, and michelle melton,  is  here (it’s 182 pages – so a slow download).
students only approach profs who like them and who have given them good grades.
written by @mdryall september 29, 2011 at 7:45 pm posted in academia, economics, education, research, strategy, uncategorized the back-to-school/afterschool “art world” with 5 comments
written by fabiorojas september 1, 2011 at 12:02 am posted in education, fabio with 25 comments many conservative critics of the academy believe that liberals dominate because of anti-conservative discrimination.
this is an  average statement, of course.
rather,  it’s about variables, even when it’s historical.
unless an institution is engaged in  fraud, there’s little reason to pick specifically on for-profit  institutions.
scholarly productivity  can be evident early on, so a short clock perhaps makes sense.
for now, it seems that the research question, idea itself and you have to shine.
consider this a follow up – my thoughts on my doctoral education at chicago.
i then merged attendance, assignment completion, and midterm performance data.
a couple times i have also used the hofstede cultural relativity of organizational practices piece.
as a higher education researcher, i am familiar with the evidence  addressing under-represented minorities and their achievement.
but there aren’t too many hard core  skeptics.
but huge college debt makes that choice hard to sustain.
book adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 14, 2011 at 5:54 am posted in education, fabio, social movements dance majors with 6 comments
it shows that we are encouraging people to attend college but they are not earning degrees that will make them competitive in the labor market.
most sociology programs requires one semester of statistics, which  can’t be faked.
one commenter noted that sociology might just be graded harder.
the undergraduate  curriculum is based on a “core” that covers classic writings.
perhaps a short  clock instills an appropriate sense of urgency about publishing.
another sold special headbands meant to help prevent concussions.
it shows that the growth in awarded college degrees has come from people majoring outside the sciences and engineering.
evidence  about sex typing doesn’t address teacher interaction.
update: hadn’t been there for some time but just noted that the teachomt wiki has some nice org design related materials (and, hey, their design looks very familiar).
they know profs are looking for hard working people who need boring work done.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 7, 2011 at 12:03 am posted in academia, education, fabio grad skool rulz – finding a research assistant with 2 comments viewer mail!
there are many college fundamentalists.
i collected two behavioral/discipline variables: did the students show up to two randomly selected classes and did students use their “free pass,” which allows them to skip a daily writing assignment.
having taken a math major myself, i can attest that topology isn’t useful in the labor market, but it probably acts as strong signal.
but the difference is that there’s no ponzi scheme since you can’t sell or transfer your college degree to someone else for an even higher price.
notably, the funeral industry and some industries associated with children (like preschool) are regulated in an attempt to limit exploitation of a vulnerable population.
people (including banks) started believing that housing prices would just go up and up, which then justified all kinds of crazy loans.
so we have a small section dedicated to org  design.
notably, the funeral industry and some industries associated with children  (like preschool) are regulated in an attempt to limit exploitation of a  vulnerable population.
the abstract: this meta-analysis examined the validity of the graduate record  examinations (gre) and undergraduate grade point average (ugpa) as predictors  of graduate school performance.
take the numerator and subtract the denominator and — presto — you have the object of focus in strategy.
so we don’t rely on a steady feed of polished applicants from the west coast and ivy league.
i felt sorry (for him) that i  couldn’t bring him around in that discussion.
higher education is second fiddle.
entitled, “what determines productivity?”
long time readers know that i believe that we have too much college.
it’s called“a comprehensive meta-analysis of the predictive  validity of the graduate record examinations: implications for graduate student  selection and performance.
but not everyone has the academic ability or desire for the professional tracks (business, education, health) or the sciences/engineering.
the profile is that they major in sociology and have a decent gpa.
so they need something, which turns out to  be these other areas.
according to the aclu, they then violated procedure by not releasing us immediately after issuing the misdemeanor citations.
sadly, i’ve read only four or five letters that fit this mold, out of hundreds.
as long as dance education is inexpensive,  that’s not such a big deal.
for example, there was a booth for a  company that sold the paint used to paint the lines on soccer fields.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 28, 2011 at 12:08 am posted in academia, education, fabio with 4 comments
a short clock seems to have some advantages.
this is not a case of a few recent republican legislatures targeting  liberal egg heads for budget cuts.
perhaps a “free” wisconsin would charge harvard rates.
if they do it well, they move on to more ambitious things.
most sociology majors could earn more money, but they insist on service  oriented jobs, like teaching and social work, that suprress their wages.
virginia postrel comes to the defense of the “punching bag disciplines” -”how
this has lead some folks, like arnold kling,to conjecture that this is a result of anti-profit mentalities among students.
the state has the power to charter schools, give them grants, and license their brand name (e.g., the university of state x).
but i still want people to read a good “here’s the facts” summary for each case.
but they had significantly higher test scores in the year before admission than girls who applied but were not admitted, although admission was reported to be a lottery, and their subsequent achievement was no better than that of students in a coeducational program with similar entry-level score.
for example, policy makers in  america often promote more student loans to increase enrollments.
typically, 3 minutes into describing something i was working on to a respected io colleague, i could see the eyes glaze over and hear the responses go on autopilot.
tenure clocks do vary significantly from university to university, from five-six years to ten or so years.
they spend their whole career in topics courses that do  not emphasize the basics of theory, the casting empirical topics as evidence  for broader concepts.
i’d be surprised if the engineering professor knew the politics of the new guy from kazakhstan, unless he made a big deal out of it.
second, i didn’t see evidence showing that teachers treat female students better in mixed classes.
a few answers: add your own explanations.
with her permission, valerie from new hampshire wrote the following: i’m a reader of orgtheory and i enjoy the grad school rulz stuff from your blog (i love professional development type things).
i do not take a religious stance toward  education.
as students, we knew  we were there to learn the latest-and-greatest academic thinking.
i wanted to express my concern about the double threat  posed to the ideal of liberal education by the rising cost of tuition and, more  generally, the burden of debt.
the out-of-school hours are a huge source of capital-building as well (what i call “competitive kid capital” in my work on elementary school-age kids involved in the competitive afterschool activities of chess, dance, and soccer).
sure, in polls, people may talk about the  importance of education, but in state budgets, the message is clear.
i’m particularly interested in non-phd student ras, but i assume there are similar principles.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas december 27, 2011 at 12:02 am posted in education, fabio, social movements with 2 comments over at that other blog i’ve been linking to some free online courses that start january 2012.
written by teppo april 29, 2011 at 10:06 pm posted in education, social movements, strategy, teppo « older  entries “…the science of association is the mother science; the  progress of all the others depends on the progress of that one.”
asr, oliver amr and thornton-ocasio ajs — important papers),  paul asked me to send him some recent work of mine.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas march 7, 2012 at 12:05 am posted in education, fabio, just theory with 18 comments why don’t we offer a “hard science” sociology track?
the major alternative is that school is a de facto iq test.
a research group at georgetown has analyzed this data to show correlations between college major and income.
it’s a  strategy that requires reading folders closely, but it pays off in spades.
here is what i wrote back: for undergrads, i use the following rules:  they need to have taken a  course from me and get a b or higher, or they need a reference from another  prof and a 3.0 gpa or higher.
among the social sciences, econ is on top ($70k) while soc is at the  bottom ($45k).
second, there is a double selection effect.
everyone  should have it no matter the cost or the measured effect.
written by teppo november 9, 2011 at 8:33 pm posted in academia, education, productivity and performance with 14 comments last week, i linked to data showing that the growth degrees awarded has often come from non-vocational areas (nva), such as the humanities.
some schools pride themselves on rejecting tenure candidates  – so perhaps a short clock makes sense there.
as a quick side comment – what is very cool about northwestern is that everything seems to scream “inter-disciplinarity” of some sort.
this effort to require the programs to yield “gainful employment” has angered private colleges as well as some education advocates who say minority students will be disproportionately harmed if the programs lose their eligibility for federal aid.
some, like nathan hare and gerald mcwhorter, went on to foundother disciplines like ethnic studies.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 7, 2011 at 12:03 am posted in academia, education, fabio with 2 comments viewer mail!
i think this deserves a response.
and  these afterschool hours are not only the source of capital for kids, they are  also the source of very real economic capital for many adults.
i’m hoping to increase the amount of coverage i give to  organizational design.
they’ve succeeded in teaching and research, but they’ve failed in maintaining their relationship to the state.
but this chart shows that there is a significant number of people who can handle college, but it likely won’t help them much.
yglesias focuses on different  funding structures and ta’s.
fantastic students.
that’s why it’s good to consult with colleagues from those  nations  if there’s a candidate who might be a good fit.
while some parents express discomfort that some adults are “making a living off of” their children (childhood is supposed to be a sacred time, after all), they still pay up for fear of their child being “left behind.”
this all suggests to me that college education should be focused, not given to all who ask.
the classic agency v structure (or, actor v non-actor) debate was a good fit for the seminar.
we should have institutions that support the arts.
we want to tell apple how to make more profit.
adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas january 28, 2012 at 12:04 am posted in economics, education, fabio with 14 comments bill gross says – “philosophy, sociology and liberal arts agendas will no longer suffice” – “skill-based education is a must, as is science and math.”
on the one hand, as many have pointed out,  rising costs limit access.
halpern at al claim, correctly, that separating students prevent students from  cooperating and increases sex typing (e.g., girls act more feminine).
overall, i am still not a strong proponent of single sex, or single race, education.
the  result is that you get people who are exposed to theory as the last thing they  do before graduation.
i was particularly struck by this when i attended a state  soccer expo and saw vendors selling products i had not previously considered  vital to the travel soccer enterprise.
instead, i would like to see  some sort of cost-benefit analysis added to the way that we charge people for  education.
that was about a time the paper by chad syverson (2011) started making the rounds.
and: in addition, underperforming children in ss schools often transfer out prematurely, which inflates final performance outcomes.
the benefits of college should be compared to the costs and  liabilities.
in the ols model with dummies for attendance on either day and skipping 1,  2, 3 and 4 (or more), the results are the same.
the implied message is that this course is hard and  not terribly relevant.
we picked a set of  readings that sounded fun and interesting (some classics as well as recent  stuff).
we need a way for people to credential themselves without taking on the massive un-payable debt associated with the modern humanities degree.
we had a great discussion  about whether the two sides simply represent extremes, about the history of  methodological debates like this (going back to the german historical school,  weber etc), the practical implications of these debates for understanding  social phenomena, questions of “pushing your cookie” versus  pluralism, etc, etc.
can an elite research  university survive with an egalitarian ethos in the face of competition from  the unapologetic elitist private institutions?
written by teppo january 7, 2012 at 4:27 am posted in education with 17 comments a few weeks ago, i noted that indiana sociology is one of the stingiest graders in the university.
this is not to say there weren’t always great economists in the  bi-curious category.
it is a wide-ranging survey paper that collects and organizes work in economics on persistent differences in firm productivity levels.
there’s a lot of higher education that won’t get you a job – arts, philosophy, and do so forth.
physical  capital is some physical object that allows you to produce more goods and  services for sale on the market.
(i exchanged emails with chuck – he has a mere  33,000 people signed up for the class so far.)
after all, novelists, artists, and  other creative types improve the world in important ways.
so people go to  college to avoid service sector and manual work.
that way, the state university could be free  from state regulations while maintaining its mission to serve the local  population.
i was somewhat surprised when he, in so many words, told me i was full of it.
first, many students are attracted to the topics of sociology (e.g., race) not the general idea of testing social theories.
perhaps a short clock instills an appropriate sense of urgency about publishing.
a while ago, i wrote a post at marginal revolution called “thoughts  on a berkeley education.”
book adverts: from black power/grad skool rulz written by fabiorojas november 14, 2011 at 5:54 am posted in education, fabio, social movements with 6 comments
the theory  explains the liberalism of the american professoriate as a function of  reputation-based self-selection: because academia has a reputation for  liberalism, liberals are more likely to pursue graduate degrees and academic  careers.
as one commenter noted, departments are scared of losing students.
i’m dealing with young folks who won’t have a lot of first hand  knowledge of movements.
update: hadn’t been there for some time but just noted that the  teachomt wiki has some nice org design related materials (and, hey, their  design looks very familiar).
so why did i title this post “the failure of public higher  education?”
they also claim that there is no evidence that male and female brains operate differently with respect to learning.
in exchange for  adopting a quasi-private stance and retaining these privileges, state  universities would be required to fund raise and establish an endowment that is  only for in-state students.
i teach an mba organization theory class
i think there is a middle way.
in my large lecture in social theory, about 10% got  any version of an a, with a single unadorned a. i am not alone.
my main disagreement disagreement is in their response that ss schooling can effectively counter the issue of teachers treating male and female students differently.
in our view, courses based upon some textbook anybody could get at their student bookstore for $50 had to be worth little more than, well, $50.
– woody allen i have a hypothesis, shared by many social scientists, that life course outcomes are highly correlated with self-discipline.
rather than try to get every kid into college regardless of  academic skills, we should focus on people who have the ability and desire to  succeed.
these people take out massive  loans for skills they will never use.
rather than argue at the level of values,  let’s look at the historical record.
so it can’t be a bubble, at  least they way most people talk about bubbles.
other products, like the headbands, are successful by preying on parental concerns about their children’s safety.
should there be major public research institutions  at all?
the stuff you learned can’t be transferred to  another person, no matter how much they pay.
this is based on teaching a lot of public university students, many of whom postpone theory until the bitter end.
if you’re a parent you’ve likely spent a lot of time lately  preparing for the start of the school year.
after all, i’d love to have more outlets for my work.
i’d focus on faculty funding  formulas.
the classic  agency v structure (or, actor v non-actor) debate was a good fit for the  seminar.
many ivy league students are selected on political grounds –  legacies, athletes, and various “well rounded” kids: researchers with access to closely guarded college admissions data have  found that, on the whole, about 15 percent of freshmen enrolled at  america’s highly selective colleges are white teens who failed to meet  their institutions’minimum admissions standards.
also, more recent ucla data from the 2000s shows that around 60% to 70% of college students, depending on the question, want more job career advice from their college.
i was hoping we would  get into some issues related to performativity and markets – but paul had  the students read about the jepperson and meyer debate.
written by hilaryleveyfriedman september 2, 2011 at 8:42 pm posted in education, guest bloggers with 8 comments conservative think that modern colleges are bastions on unfettered communism.
before we get to theory, i want people to actually know some cases.
signed child up for a plethora of enrichment afterschool activities after being deluged with ads and then feeling guilty because every other child your child’s age seems to be enrolled?
though, in terms of teaching, i’ve tried to move away from more than  one slide per each class (i’m a chalkboard kinda guy these days), so  perhaps not for class.
on the other hand, young scholars like  syverson are smart … and teched-up … and full of youthful energy.