i told them about your product and even shared the flash cards that i printed  out i recommended that they download the free version and try it out.
zach d, french learner byki is perfect because i can customize it for what we're learning in my italian class.
i really appreciate this program and its become a pleasure to have.
i learn new topics everyday and i think it is the best program for people who want to learn a new language.
charlene gilmoour i just sent out some info earlier on byki to a friend in england who questioned how we'd tackle the subject of 'teaching' spanish, to our 14 yr old daughter.
it's very easy to use and a lot of fun also!
i am happy to provide additional feedback after i have used it for a couple of months.
i have practiced with the program every evening after work and can tell a difference already!
however, i am beginning to think the german is beyond my tongue to pronounce....
keep up the  fantastic work!
my husband and i have sometimes talked about that it would be fun to  know spanish a little better (my husband doesn't know it at all, and i had  forgotten most of it) partly because it's a nice sounding language, and also  because it is useful in so many countries.
pauline ferwerda, spanish language learner byki is a really good program.
i noticed byki on the internet and the audio part seemed quite useful so i  downloaded it.
carolyn lamar i enjoyed using byki french very much i find it very helpful and easy to  use.
i bought a spanish program for my young grandchildren a few years ago,  which they love to play.
when i started the class, the other students were working on sentence structure.
when i am finished here i am going to download the deluxe  and i know i will know this language inside and out.
the spanish will help me in my work, as i am a legal secretary in a city  with a growing hispanic population.
i have trouble memorizing  lists, concepts are much easier for me to learn, but hope that this program  will work for me.
thanks from an old school teacher.
i'm just a 14 year old girl with a lot of spanish friends.
i am  happy to provide additional feedback after i have used it for a couple of  months.
with thanks m j grubb
i have trouble remembering the spanish words to use when i want to express myself.
easy to use, and very effective.
this way it is easy for a parent to help the child.
i learned more using this for an hour than 3 years of school!
my wife and three of my  children speak spanish, one speaks french, and my oldest son speaks german,  italian and some french.
i find it very slow and fairly  boring.
thank you for a most enjoyable way to spend an evening or a weekend.
i am a professor of organizational leadership.
you solved my greatest problem-deficit of learning product for arabic language.
wynne lewis, portugal
i'd only hope for two changes with the  software...
every time i try, i end up laughing at myself at my feeble efforts to wrap my tongue around it....
i have shared the "byki spanish" program with my older  grandchildren who are taking spanish in school and would recommend it and the  "kidspeak spanish" to anyone who wants to learn spanish at any  age.
i shall be giving your product 10 out of 10 at the next school meeting, i shall be promoting your product to all the school mums, as a good product and service is a rare thing to find for school.
we have a large group of portuguese friends and  they will be excited to hear us use some words and phrases.
i paid a lot of money for rosetta stone since i heard  it was the best.
sincerely, hope garcia it is a good starter program.
thank you for giving me the chance to do just that.
i  learned more using this for an hour than 3 years of school!
when my two children were small, i used a similar approach for teaching them english - drew pictures on one side of the library catalogue cards and letters and words on the other side.
i recommendedbyki to colleague translators on lantra (international translation e-forum hosted at sunet.segate.se) today; for adults such as myself, after spending hours on serious translation work, this program is great fun while it makes learning effortless.
i  don't have anyone to practice speaking russian with, so i'm not sure how some  words should sound.
they were  amazed at how easy it was to use the product and how much fun it is.
language learner i'm amazed at the learning technique the software employs.
i anticipate learning each of he languages you have available.
charlene gilmoour i just sent out some info earlier on byki to a friend in england who  questioned how we'd tackle the subject of 'teaching' spanish, to our 14 yr old  daughter.
i continued using byki and within two days i knew more words, phrases and sentences than i had learnt from the rosetta stone course over a two week period.
i have shared the "byki spanish" program with my older grandchildren who are taking spanish in school and would recommend it and the "kidspeak spanish" to anyone who wants to learn spanish at any age.
when i started  the class, the other students were working on sentence structure.
dr. dwayne b. thomas i started using your product this past february.
i am thrilled with what i have learned in such a short time and at how easy i am finding it.
however, i was pleasantly surprised, as it is simple to use and laid out in a way which makes it easy to learn.
i do german genealogy and learning german will help me tremendously in translating german to english or english to german.
found italians really appreciated my attempts to communicate in their language.
yours has definitely been the best  i have found.
we had also just decided to go to spain for  vacation in the end of may (in 2 weeks).
we became very close and she has visited us several times since then.
this way it is easy for a parent to help the  child.
i wish you much success!
i don't have anyone to practice speaking russian with, so i'm not sure how some words should sound.
thanks for a great free product to get me started!
once i master all  the words in lite version, i will probably upgrade.
this program has helped me  dramatically.
maxine lantz i downloaded this product for my 9 year old daughter who is learning to speak french in school.
i discovered i can speak spanish from a write up in the uk computer magazine, which gave it a very good, write up.
you have a great company and product!
thanks again, tana davis i have spent a 'ton' of money trying to learn the french language but, to no avail, until now.
i would recommend adding a list for journeys, e.g. "how was your journey?"
once i master all the words in lite version, i will probably upgrade.
therefore, as you can imagine, this is very frustrating when i want to practice speaking spanish and cannot remember the words to use.
so i ordered this course for christmas.
needless to say i have not touched rosetta stone since  and i will continue using byki.
should have done this years ago!!
i am 57 years old and loving life.
the program would also make an excellent present for kids.
my teacher and fellow student asked me how i caught up so fast.
the native speaker is a great help in  pronunciation and i like the fact you can slow the speed of the sentence to a  pace which suits you.
our youngest (13) was at the computer using the  flash cards and her mother and i followed along.
roslyn mosley online affiliates  |   technical support   |  about us  |   privacy policy   |  terms & conditions learn spanish free   |  learn french free  |   learn  italian free  |   learn russian free ©2012  transparent language.
mrs. w v clayton, spanish learner we live in portugal nine months of year, so i would like to learn the language!.
stephanie altizer columbia, south carolina my kids learned all the colors easily, the flashcards are a great idea, i even learned them myself.
w i find i graduate to next level too soon, can there be an option to start  over?
one of our members is an excellent speaker of spanish.
thanks for a great free  product to get me started!
when i am finished here i am going to download the deluxe and i know i will know this language inside and out.
thank you for a great product!
i enjoyed your french program.
i recently downloaded the spanish version of colors and i did excellent in it, but i was hoping that you would put more ideas regards towards the spanish language.
byki lite user mike h. california i haven't even had byki lite spanish for a week yet and i have  nearly learned all the lists.
i printed out the list of word and gave them to one of my crew chiefs to see if he could use them.
i  really appreciate this program and its become a pleasure to have.
i hope the portuguese program is equally as effective.
i  look forward to each session, and don't want to move faster than i can retain.
lynne cole i am currently taking a spanish i class.
keep up the  great work!
mrs. w v clayton, spanish learner we live in portugal nine months of year, so i would like to learn the  language!.
i have also used other software, but most of the software i tried was just too overwhelming for me.
the native speaker is a great help in pronunciation and i like the fact you can slow the speed of the sentence to a pace which suits you.
but, i'll keep trying.
your product was a great help to me.
alan eddy language learner i wish i knew about this product while studying russian in school.
thank you mrs. joyce bell (a grateful pensioner) thank you, thank you, thank you!!!
i am learning brazilian portuguese because i am working in brazil for a couple months at a time.
as of today, i have caught up with the class and i am able to  form sentences.
i will be back for the full version as soon as i have some spare money!
i anticipate  learning each of he languages you have available.
i would be honored to have you use any of my comments.
in fact i  think it helped me more in france that several courses at various night  schools.
they were amazed at how easy it was to use the product and how much fun it is.
i found myself actually following along, and i thought, "jiminy christmas - i don't understand a word of it yet, but i can find where he is in the passage - - " the spanish will help me in my work, as i am a legal secretary in a city with a growing hispanic population.
thank you for this great course.
i bought a spanish program for my young grandchildren a few years ago, which they love to play.
i'd only hope for two changes with the software...
i am happy to  endorse a product that i really like and believe in.
i have to add.. that day by day..
julie lemieux spanish and portuguese learner, first time language software user i think your program is awesome!
i recommended this site to her french teacher  for all the kids in my daughter's class.
all i  can say isbyki is absolutely brilliant.
for  example: things around the house or food or something in that perspective.
they  have learned the spanish names of animals and the numbers without even trying.
i think this helps demonstrate our affection, and respect, for our friends and their families.
thanks, i think you have a great tool for language learning.
thank you for a wonderful learning experience!!!
byki lite user mike h. california i haven't even had byki lite spanish for a week yet and i have nearly learned all the lists.
i purchased it via a uk website (delivered within two days - excellent) and updated the byki bit.
the link to your web site  appeared as i was reading a discussion on whether it's sensible to make the  irish language one of the official languages of the eu since practically  everyone speaks english.
(even though my friend complemented me on my fast learning with only a cd-rom).it's a different thing to build my own sentences compared to repeating dialogues.
i told them about your product and even shared the flash cards that i printed out
i  would have liked to have some grammar practice (building own sentences,  especially to practice different common verb tenses) in this course, for  example after the dialogues or as a separate title or activity.
i have trouble remembering the spanish words to use when i want to express  myself.
i have  practiced with the program every evening after work and can tell a difference  already!
i recently  downloaded the spanish version of colors and i did excellent in it, but i was  hoping that you would put more ideas regards towards the spanish language.
i would have liked to have some grammar practice (building own sentences, especially to practice different common verb tenses) in this course, for example after the dialogues or as a separate title or activity.
maxine lantz i downloaded this product for my 9 year old daughter who is learning to  speak french in school.
this is a great way to keep her french up and tutor her on the words she doesn't know.
as of today, i have caught up with the class and i am able to form sentences.
hello i found it perfect.
a lot of the wording on the other sites just wasn't correct.
with warm regards surbhi patel i think that this is a brilliant way to learn a new language, i do my bit  each day and have learned a whole lot more things quicker than using tapes.
i understand well what's in the course, but when i a few times have tried  to talk with spanish speaking people, i find it quite hard anyway.
i work in a field that has many spanish speaking employees and many english speaking employees.
thanks again, tana davis i have spent a 'ton' of money trying to learn the french language but, to  no avail, until now.
i have my own consulting company and  eventually want to be able to offer instruction in spanish.
mia i own a lot of the transparent spanish programs for older macs, but the  lite is terrific for brush up and learning just enough!!!
so i ordered this course for  christmas.
they love pepa and enjoy playing the games in the  program.
i have tried several different methods to learn spanish.
i'm 83 with an ma degree and five years of university teaching.
we had an exchange daughter from argentina that lived with us her senior year of high school.
i have truly found this to be the best site on the web for its graphics,  sound, method and layout.
i like the way that the cards cue for both the native language and the  new language and build on the knowledge learned.
he is an australian citizen and sounds and spells like  one.
you have a great  product!
i paid a lot of money for rosetta stone since i heard it was the best.
also, i am really impressed with the quality of sound.
the reason i got more interested,  was that we heard a preacher speaking spanish, and it was fun when we  recognized some words we could understand because of their likeness with  english or swedish (our language).
sincerely, marian taylor thank you for making learning languages so easy and free.
i work in a field that has many spanish speaking employees and many english  speaking employees.
i explained all about your program to him and he wrote back saying how he could tell we're very happy and satisfied, not to mentioned thrilled with this program!
i just realized that the program my younger grandchildren love is also atransparent language product, " kidspeak spanish".
thank you for  providing this wonderful opportunity.
i have discovered your program by accident, through google - i have a gmail account for e-list subscriptions and google displays leads related to the content in e-mails at the edge of the screen.
i downloaded the  free version and a week later i found myself purchasing and downloading the  full version.
autumn willbanks i am learning a new language for first time (i am nearly 70) as a surprise  for my daughter who has bought a home in italy.
chris kearton i would like to say that this is the best spanish course that i have found.
mia i own a lot of the transparent spanish programs for older macs, but the lite is terrific for brush up and learning just enough!!!
however, i think its a great website.
my wife and three of my children speak spanish, one speaks french, and my oldest son speaks german, italian and some french.
you are helping me soooo much.
yours has definitely been the best i have found.
and that's quite a feat considering the fact that he just turned 60.
i've gotten through all the titles, and now i'm repeating.
with warm regards surbhi patel i think that this is a brilliant way to learn a new language, i do my bit each day and have learned a whole lot more things quicker than using tapes.
tom gerhardt i was thrilled to find your site, and even more so to discover that i could  download lite to get started.
also, i am  really impressed with the quality of sound.
thanks alice lee i have recommended this product to friends who have children that are eager to learn french but the parents are unable to help them at home either with the pronunciation or with grammar.
if i continue to enjoy using the lite version then i will definitely buy the deluxe.
therefore, as you can imagine, this is very frustrating when i  want to practice speaking spanish and cannot remember the words to use.
so the  brush-up in spanish will help with some of our clients here at the office.
when i registered the software, i learned about your product.
i recommendedbyki to colleague translators on lantra  (international translation e-forum hosted at sunet.segate.se) today; for adults  such as myself, after spending hours on serious translation work, this program  is great fun while it makes learning effortless.
thank you so much for such a great product.
my church has a spanish ministry.
we had an exchange daughter from argentina that lived with us  her senior year of high school.
the lite version promises to be very helpful, and i am already  thinking about downloading the deluxe version!
ultimately, i will upgrade our system so that we continue to improve.
he said that it was very very helpful,  and that some of the spanish speaking employees are trying to help him and also  he is trying to help them, so that there is no language barrier between them.
a lot of the wording on the other sites  just wasn't correct.
he said that it was very very helpful, and that some of the spanish speaking employees are trying to help him and also he is trying to help them, so that there is no language barrier between them.
the ability to hear the right pronunciation is invaluable.
roslyn mosley calumet city, illinois
byki has been a great help there.
thank you for the ability to learn a language in a user-friendly way at an excellent price!
this is a great way to keep her french up and tutor her  on the words she doesn't know.
i have also used other software, but most of the  software i tried was just too overwhelming for me.
dan bear, byki and language now user i would just like to thank you soooooo much for helping me on my way to spanish.
however, i am beginning to think the german is beyond my tongue to  pronounce....
i just realized that the program my younger  grandchildren love is also atransparent language product, " kidspeak spanish".
the reason i got more interested, was that we heard a preacher speaking spanish, and it was fun when we recognized some words we could understand because of their likeness with english or swedish (our language).
i printed out the list of word and gave them to one of my  crew chiefs to see if he could use them.
you are  helping me soooo much.
i have my own consulting company and eventually want to be able to offer instruction in spanish.
i plan to visit argentina and want to be able to  speak the language when i do.
i have not done much yet although it is brilliant and i have recommended it to two other people.
this program is great for beginners and i would highly recommend it to my friends.
carolyn lamar i enjoyed using byki french very much i find it very helpful and easy to use.
however, i was pleasantly surprised, as it is simple to use and laid out in a  way which makes it easy to learn.
i find this an excellent learning tool!
the pronunciations are great and i can  effectively teach my third graders with correct and accurate words and phrases!
i recently downloaded byki, and i think it's a great help to make me understand my language more.
it was hard  for me because i didn't have the vocabulary to form a sentence.
today, three members of my family were learning spanish as we  moved throughout the house.
you have a great product!
truly,  a wonderful product.
i have just enrolled in a basic course so it helps me to learn a bit of french before i attend my course.
i have not done much yet  although it is brilliant and i have recommended it to two other people.
truly, a wonderful product.
you guys are on the right track.
i downloaded the free version and a week later i found myself purchasing and downloading the full version.
today, three members of my family were learning spanish as we moved throughout the house.
julie lemieux spanish and portuguese learner, first time  language software user i think your program is awesome!
i did take one year of spanish [in 9th  grade.... and i will not say how many years ago that was.... :-)) ]
i will look into it after the summer as i am returning to brazil.
i am thrilled with what i have  learned in such a short time and at how easy i am finding it.
already i've learned so much and  enjoy it tremendously.
our youngest (13) was at the computer using the flash cards and her mother and i followed along.
i am a  professor of organizational leadership.
for example: things around the house or food or something in that perspective.
although i only downloaded thebyki lite version only on thursday, he has already started to be able to identify some of the words.
already i've learned so much and enjoy it tremendously.
i know the version i have is free, but  i feel it is so comprehensive in the course that i will be (when i am finally  through thebyki free product) be ordering the full version.
thank you transparent language for a really great tool.
i will look  into it after the summer as i am returning to brazil.
(i'll probably keep laughing at myself, too.)
while your program is not the same as ecclesiastical latin, nonetheless, it is  a start, and i am truly enjoying it.
it's so good that i'll be upgrading to the deluxe version tonight, not so much because i'd like the extra features, but because i really want to support this program.
although i only downloaded thebyki lite version only on thursday, he has already started to be able to identify some of  the words.
i really am enjoying this software, and was working on it earlier tonight.
you solved my greatest  problem-deficit of learning product for arabic language.
my confidence with my customers at the airport is increasing and i am overjoyed at actually remembering the pronunciations or numbers or words.
i am 71 a. h. van herp, australia i have only just started to use the product.
the pronunciations are great and i can effectively teach my third graders with correct and accurate words and phrases!
i learn new topics everyday and i think it  is the best program for people who want to learn a new language.
i like the way that the cards cue for both the native language and the new language and build on the knowledge learned.
again, i would like to thank you for having this available to the public and  that i am going to order the deluxe edition within the month.
the lite version promises to be very helpful, and i am already thinking about downloading the deluxe version!
hayley willliams my husband has had no french instruction whatsoever, not even high school.
one, i wish you had a searchable database so that i can quickly see if the word i'm inputting is already included with the program.
in this way, i was able to see for myself how well  it works.
veronica natale i took german in high school and have never used it in 30 yrs.
i have learnt more in the last couple of days than i have in six months.
i'm still amazed and yes, you may use anything i've said or written, with my pleasure!
when my two  children were small, i used a similar approach for teaching them english - drew  pictures on one side of the library catalogue cards and letters and words on  the other side.
we've gone through a number of lists and will move to other languages when  we complete spanish.
i have discovered your program by accident, through google - i have a gmail  account for e-list subscriptions and google displays leads related to the  content in e-mails at the edge of the screen.
sincerely, gregory earls some of the pronunciation is not mainland spain, it is obviously s  american.
i love  this product and will continue to use and recommend it.
autumn willbanks i am learning a new language for first time (i am nearly 70) as a surprise for my daughter who has bought a home in italy.
i  think the "free sample" download idea is an excellent one, and  definitely made me a believer.
he is an australian citizen and sounds and spells like one.
i'm having so much fun!
i do german genealogy and learning german  will help me tremendously in translating german to english or english to german.
having only used a few days, i have been able to retain and spout most of what i know.
i have wanted to learn spanish for  some time now.
so the brush-up in spanish will help with some of our clients here at the office.
thanks, christine i think you have a great tool for language learning.
i know the version i have is free, but i feel it is so comprehensive in the course that i will be (when i am finally through thebyki free product) be ordering the full version.
i would have found that useful.
they have learned the spanish names of animals and the numbers without even trying.
and now trying to learn enough of a second language to talk to my six children.
while your program is not the same as ecclesiastical latin, nonetheless, it is a start, and i am truly enjoying it.
ross bausone being older, learning a language for the first time is a bit more challenging, but i am determined to succeed.
in fact i think it helped me more in france that several courses at various night schools.
thank you so much for helping me attain my language goals.
my confidence with  my customers at the airport is increasing and i am overjoyed at actually  remembering the pronunciations or numbers or words.
they love pepa and enjoy playing the games in the program.
that way i can  just copy that word into my new list, along with its audio pronunciation and  picture!byki rocks!
again, i would like to thank you for having this available to the public and that i am going to order the deluxe edition within the month.
we had also just decided to go to spain for vacation in the end of may (in 2 weeks).
i then gave byki a quick try and within a few hours i could read, write and say more phrases in brazilian than i could remember from the rosetta stone course.
the native speakers are invaluable!!!
and i must say, i hardly understood a word of it - only bits and pieces here and there.... and it made me wish i had taken latin back in high school.)
the only comment i can make is, thank you for a brilliant product, and  offering a "no strings" opportunity to try it i will definitely use  the product again.
am seriously considering your deluxe edition.
i need to have the reinforcement and repetitive practice that your system gives.
i understand well what's in the course, but when i a few times have tried to talk with spanish speaking people, i find it quite hard anyway.
i shall be giving your product 10  out of 10 at the next school meeting, i shall be promoting your product to all  the school mums, as a good product and service is a rare thing to find for  school.
we became very close and she has visited us  several times since then.
i have previously purchase spanish language software fromtransparent language.
:) brendon ross my only comment is-thank you for existing!
i plan to visit argentina and want to be able to speak the language when i do.
i explained all about your program to him and he wrote back saying  how he could tell we're very happy and satisfied, not to mentioned thrilled  with this program!
g r burvill i was unsure of what i was downloading and how effective it would be.
you have a great  company and product!
great teaching tool!
yes, this is the first language learning software that i've used.
the voices are precise, easy to  understand and very real.
so i thought this would be the right  time to freshen up my forgotten spanish and learn some more, in order to  understand and communicate some when we get there.
and i will not say how many years ago that was.... :-)) ]
in this way, i was able to see for myself how well it works.
am also interested in spanish and french.
all i can say isbyki is absolutely brilliant.
i have looked threw many french/english websites  and this is the only one i have found to be really helpful also work with a  french lady also endorses this website.
however, i  think its a great website.
i have opened  this software up to my family and we are really enjoying it.
i home school our daughter and though i speak 'some' spanish myself, since my mothers passing, i've had no one to speak it with, so i was in need of a refresher course.
i continued using byki and within two days i knew more  words, phrases and sentences than i had learnt from the rosetta stone course  over a two week period.
tamara steinberg i just returned from a trip to italy.
stephanie altizer columbia, south carolina my kids learned all the colors easily, the flashcards are a great idea, i  even learned them myself.
staci piatt, third grade teacher i studied spanish for one year in school when i was 16-17 years old.
i have had to start saying the words aloud though because i could remember the spelling and the word, but if i tried to remember the word to say i would lose it.
thanks for the up-grade i will certainly use it shortly.
it was hard for me because i didn't have the vocabulary to form a sentence.
amanda faux i am so thrilled with your product.
but for me it is  just fun.
i  have learnt more in the last couple of days than i have in six months.
wynne  lewis, portugal
i am a military spouse already living overseas, and just found out that our  next duty station is in germany, so i have been searching for online software,  to help me learn some german before we move.
thunder melanie ann sptizer i think the byki program is great!
that way i can just copy that word into my new list, along with its audio pronunciation and picture!byki rocks!
i find it very slow and fairly boring.
i love hearing the recording of the gentleman reading the aeneid....that, alone, makes it all worthwhile.
i have truly found this to be the best site on the web for its graphics, sound, method and layout.
i am planning to buy the deluxe version as soon  as i have all my stars.
i did take one year of spanish [in 9th grade....
i can remember the spanish to english translation much easier than i can remember the english to spanish translation.
so i thought this would be the right time to freshen up my forgotten spanish and learn some more, in order to understand and communicate some when we get there.
i can remember the spanish to  english translation much easier than i can remember the english to spanish  translation.
i have been  amazed with the quality and extensive scope that you offer... for free.
i have been using the byki software everyday since the time that i  downloaded it.
i have taken a  "conversational spanish" class and learned some, but not enough to be  able to speak spanish.
ultimately, i will  upgrade our system so that we continue to improve.
needless to say i have not touched rosetta stone since and i will continue using byki.
sincerely, gregory earls some of the pronunciation is not mainland spain, it is obviously s american.
i am a military spouse already living overseas, and just found out that our next duty station is in germany, so i have been searching for online software, to help me learn some german before we move.
i look forward to each session, and don't want to move faster than i can retain.
so, thank you again greeting from croatia!
i have wanted to learn spanish for some time now.
david dodd i have just started using the system (5 days) and thoroughly like it.
this program is great for beginners and i  would highly recommend it to my friends.
10/10 adrian my children are learning language at school and i was delighted as a mother  in the ease that your product was delivered.
i have  previously purchase spanish language software fromtransparent language.
i cannot tell you how much i am enjoying your products (especially the latin program - i am catholic, and i have noticed ever since pope john paul ii died there has been a bit more latin thrown back into the service here and there -
every time i try, i end up laughing at myself at my feeble efforts  to wrap my tongue around it....
i have looked threw many french/english websites and this is the only one i have found to be really helpful also work with a french lady also endorses this website.
having only used  a few days, i have been able to retain and spout most of what i know.
this is the best german software i have found so far!
i love hearing the recording of the  gentleman reading the aeneid....that, alone, makes it all worthwhile.
we have a large group of portuguese friends and they will be excited to hear us use some words and phrases.
i am happy to endorse a product that i really like and believe in.
i purchased  it via a uk website (delivered within two days - excellent) and updated the byki bit.
al boothby i think it is a fine product.
am also interested in spanish and  french.
the only comment i can make is, thank you for a brilliant product, and offering a "no strings" opportunity to try it i will definitely use the product again.
it's  so good that i'll be upgrading to the deluxe version tonight, not so much  because i'd like the extra features, but because i really want to support this  program.
www.byki.com for government clients
anita tremblay i've been studying russian on my own for almost 2 years, from books.
we've gone through a number of lists and will move to other languages when we complete spanish.
i think this helps  demonstrate our affection, and respect, for our friends and their families.
the best spanish teaching program i have seen yet.
i have had to start saying the words aloud though because i could  remember the spelling and the word, but if i tried to remember the word to say  i would lose it.
dan bear,  byki and language now user i would just like to thank you soooooo much for helping me on my way to  spanish.
i love this product and will continue to use and recommend it.
i have just enrolled in a basic course so it helps me to learn a bit of  french before i attend my course.
my business takes me into  canada and this process will be a great help.
how do i say "byki rocks" in russian?...
the native speakers  are invaluable!!!
i noticed byki on the internet and the audio part seemed quite useful so i downloaded it.
thank you for providing this wonderful opportunity.
but for me it is just fun.
i have opened this software up to my family and we are really enjoying it.
i then gave byki a quick try and within a few hours i could  read, write and say more phrases in brazilian than i could remember from the  rosetta stone course.
one, i wish you had a searchable database so that i can quickly see  if the word i'm inputting is already included with the program.
i home school our daughter and though i speak 'some' spanish  myself, since my mothers passing, i've had no one to speak it with, so i was in  need of a refresher course.
i am considering purchasing the entire package.
10/10 adrian my children are learning language at school and i was delighted as a mother in the ease that your product was delivered.
i have been using the byki software everyday since the time that i downloaded it.
tom gerhardt i was thrilled to find your site, and even more so to discover that i could download lite to get started.
the ability to hear the right  pronunciation is invaluable.
(even though  my friend complemented me on my fast learning with only a cd-rom).it's a  different thing to build my own sentences compared to repeating dialogues.
the voices are precise, easy to understand and very real.
i have trouble memorizing lists, concepts are much easier for me to learn, but hope that this program will work for me.
i am learning spanish to improve my business.
keep up the fantastic work!
i started the byki program and was amazed at how quickly i picked up the language.
my business takes me into canada and this process will be a great help.
i recommended that they download the free version and try it out.
thanks alice lee i have recommended this product to friends who have children that are eager  to learn french but the parents are unable to help them at home either with the  pronunciation or with grammar.
if i continue to  enjoy using the lite version then i will definitely buy the deluxe.
i am planning to buy the deluxe version as soon as i have all my stars.
after spending two weeks of 2-3 hours a day studying, i felt i  was not getting very far with rosetta stone.
blog testimonials get your free language software  download watch the byki demo & see what everyone's talking about check out  our list central community user testimonials what our users think about byki kevin campbell julie stone other testimonials from byki users i am learning brazilian portuguese because i am working in brazil for a  couple months at a time.
zach d, french learner byki is perfect because i can customize it for what we're learning  in my italian class.
i am considering purchasing the entire  package.
the flash cards were exactly what he needs.
i have been amazed with the quality and extensive scope that you offer... for free.
i will be back for the full version as soon as i  have some spare money!
thank you so much for  helping me attain my language goals.
the link to your web site appeared as i was reading a discussion on whether it's sensible to make the irish language one of the official languages of the eu since practically everyone speaks english.
i would recommend adding a list for journeys, e.g.  "how was your journey?"
this program has helped me dramatically.
ross bausone being older, learning a language for the first time is a bit more  challenging, but i am determined to succeed.
my church has a spanish  ministry.
i'm still amazed and yes, you may use anything i've said or written,  with my pleasure!
i found  myself actually following along, and i thought, "jiminy christmas - i  don't understand a word of it yet, but i can find where he is in the passage -  - "
and now  trying to learn enough of a second language to talk to my six children.
keep up the great work!
i think the "free sample" download idea is an excellent one, and definitely made me a believer.
w i find i graduate to next level too soon, can there be an option to start over?
my husband and i have sometimes talked about that it would be fun to know spanish a little better (my husband doesn't know it at all, and i had forgotten most of it) partly because it's a nice sounding language, and also because it is useful in so many countries.
i cannot tell you how much i am enjoying your products (especially the  latin program - i am catholic, and i have noticed ever since pope john paul ii  died there has been a bit more latin thrown back into the service here and  there - and i must say, i hardly understood a word of it - only bits and pieces  here and there.... and it made me wish i had taken latin back in high school.)
after spending two weeks of 2-3 hours a day studying, i felt i was not getting very far with rosetta stone.
i  find this an excellent learning tool!
stephan byarlay i downloaded this as a refresher.
i need to have the reinforcement and repetitive practice that  your system gives.
i have tried various on-line sites but with no luck up until now!!
(i'll probably keep  laughing at myself, too.)
i recently downloaded byki, and i think it's a great help to  make me understand my language more.
even the little ones, age 2 and 3, can play and have fun with it.
i have taken a "conversational spanish" class and learned some, but not enough to be able to speak spanish.
i am completely satisfied with what you have to offer.
thank you  for the ability to learn a language in a user-friendly way at an excellent  price!
i can speak spanish from a write up in the uk computer magazine,  which gave it a very good, write up.
i recommended this site to her french teacher for all the kids in my daughter's class.
vladimira becic your program is marvelous.
i have only had the product a week, but so far so good.
thank you once more for your help.