under the act, any person using the facilities of a ski area is considered a skier.
rescue in the backcountry, if available, is the responsibility of the summit county sheriff.
transitions can be gentle or abrupt, and demand that users be alert and respond to them with accurate movements.
it's your  responsibility.
the features vary in size and  change constantly due to snow conditions, weather,  usage, grooming and time of day.
• maneuver zone is for controlling your body in the air and setting up for landing.
transitions can be gentle or abrupt, and  demand that users be alert and respond to  them with accurate movements.
terrain park safety • know your limits and ability level and select the  appropriate freestyle terrain for you.
identify these zones and have a plan before  using any freestyle terrain.
• know the intended use of the freestyle terrain  you have chosen.
skiing or boarding extreme terrain is for experts only.
the system is a relative rating of  trails at each resort and does not compare trail difficulty between resorts.
do not attempt freestyle terrain unless you have sufficient ability and  experience to do so safely.
under the act, any person using the facilities of a ski area is considered  a skier.
the ski safety act was amended in 2004 to include cliffs, extreme terrain,  jumps and freestyle terrain as inherent dangers and risks of the sport.
under colorado law, you cannot board  a lift unless you have sufficient physical dexterity, ability and knowledge to  negotiate or to use such lift safely or until you have asked for and received  information sufficient to enable you to use the lift safely.
use of freestyle terrain exposes you to the risk of serious  injury or death.
some resorts designate features as small, medium and large.
“your responsibility code” listed below and share with other skiers  the responsibility for a great skiing experience.
read and obey all posted signs, instructions and  warnings before using freestyle terrain.
whenever starting downhill or merging into a  trail, look uphill and yield to  others.
space and speed are especially important in these areas.
you are responsible for inspecting freestyle terrain before initial use and throughout the day.
upon arrival in this area, take it easy for the first day or two.
tip - gear to bring for winter trips to keystone
it will be costly and may take time.
skiers and riders should be advised that a green circle, blue square or black diamond at keystone is not necessarily the same as a green circle, blue square or black diamond at other resorts.
• takeoff zone is for making moves that start your trick.
most importantly,  listen to your body.
the first thing most people  notice is a shortness of breath, especially when exercising.
start small and work your way  up.
regardless of whether or not you choose to wear a helmet, every winter sport participant shares responsibility for his or her safety and for that of others using the ski area facilities.
do not push the limits of your physical capabilities.
your condition, speed, balance, body movements,  alignment, trajectory and maneuver difficulty will directly affect your desired outcome.
certain areas (indicated on the map in yellow) are designated as slow zones.
one person on a feature at a time wait your turn and call your start always clear the landing area quickly respect all signs and stay off closed terrain and features be sure you know the code: you're responsibility code provides safety tips while on the slopes.
the colorado legislature,  recognizing risks that are inherent in the sport, has passed the colorado ski  safety act, which provides inherent risks of the sport and relative  responsibilities of the "skier" and the ski area.
do not attempt freestyle terrain unless you have sufficient ability and experience to do so safely.
always stay in control, and be able to stop or avoid other people or objects.
it's your responsibility.
respect all signs and do not enter freestyle terrain or use  features when closed.
view the trail map search for great lodging deals and packages offered throughout the season.
some visitors may experience symptoms associated with [resort name]’s high altitude.
always show courtesy to others and be aware that there are elements of risk in skiing and snowboarding that common sense and personal awareness can help reduce.
stop in a safe place for you and others.
one person on a feature at a time wait your turn and call your start always clear the landing area quickly respect all signs and stay off closed terrain and features know the code be sure you know the code: you're responsibility code provides safety tips  while on the slopes.
even if you land on or near the sweet spot, you can still be seriously injured or die if your landing posture is not correct.
for example, some features  are intended to be used in a series with no stopping and some individually with stopping areas; jump takeoffs are for  jumping and rail takeoffs are for entering onto rails.
identify these zones and have a plan before using any freestyle terrain.
the ski safety act was amended in 2004 to include cliffs, extreme terrain, jumps and freestyle terrain as inherent dangers and risks of the sport.
limit salty foods and increase carbohydrate consumption.
it is your responsibility to avoid them.
high altitude awareness above 8,000 feet, altitude illness affects 20 percent to 30 percent  of visitors from low elevations to some degree.
• transitions are changes in the shape and pitch of the snow or feature, or changes from one type of sliding surface to another.
what to bring tip - gear to bring for winter trips to keystone temperatures range from 50 degrees fahrenheit during the day to well below  0 degrees fahrenheit at night.
your condition, speed, balance, body movements, alignment, trajectory and maneuver difficulty will directly affect your desired outcome.
designations are relative to this ski area.
avoid wearing cotton clothing in winter because  it absorbs moisture and doesn't insulate when it's wet.
high-altitude environment.
if the symptoms do not subside shortly, a doctor should be called.
look before you leap before getting into freestyle terrain observe all signage and warnings scope around the jumps first not over them
those with one or more of these symptoms  may have acute mountain sickness (ams).
areas  beyond the ski area boundary are not patrolled or maintained.
whenever starting downhill or merging, look uphill and yield.
• transitions are changes in the shape and pitch of  the snow or feature, or changes from one  type of sliding surface to another.
always clear the landing area quickly.
use devices to help prevent runaway equipment.
your responsibility code keystone is committed to  promoting skier safety.
the features vary in size and change constantly due to snow conditions, weather, usage, grooming and time of day.
to access the backcountry, use designated gates only.
when marked, poles, flags, fencing, signage, padding or other forms of marking are used to inform the skier/rider of the location of a potential obstacle or hazard.
under colorado law, you cannot board a lift unless you have sufficient physical dexterity, ability and knowledge to negotiate or to use such lift safely or until you have asked for and received information sufficient to enable you to use the lift safely.
freestyle skills require maintaining control on the ground, and in the air.
prior to using any lift, you must have the knowledge and ability to load, ride and unload safely.
skiers and riders should begin with the easiest terrain and then move up in  difficulty as their ability permits in order to understand the relative rating  at keystone.
click here for more tips on what to bring.
freestyle terrain areas are designated with an  orange oval and may contain jumps, hits, ramps, banks, fun boxes, jibs, rails,  half pipes, quarter pipes, snowcross, bump terrain and other constructed or  natural terrain features.
• maneuver zone is for controlling your body in the  air and setting up for landing.
please observe the posted slow areas by maintaining a speed no faster than the general flow of traffic.
every time you use  freestyle terrain, make a plan for each feature you want to use.
caution – snowcats, snowmobiles and  snowmaking may be encountered at any time.
observe all posted signs and warnings.
skiers and riders should begin with the easiest terrain and then move up in difficulty as their ability permits in order to understand the relative rating at keystone.
use your first run as a warm up run and to familiarize yourself with the terrain be aware that the features change constantly due to weather, usage, grooming and time of day do not jump blindly and use a spotter when necessary respect the terrain and others
smart style is a terrain park specific safety program that you should check out before using terrain parks.
if symptoms persist or if you have a concern about your health, you should seek medical attention.
whenever starting downhill or merging into a trail, look uphill and yield to others.
four main points of smart style: 1.
be aware: the backcountry avalanche hazard may be extreme.
avalanches, unmarked obstacles and other natural hazards exist.
regardless of how you decide to enjoy the slopes, always show courtesy to  others and be aware that there are elements of risk in skiing that common sense  and personal awareness can help reduce.
your responsibility code keystone is committed to promoting skier safety.
be advised that keystone does not mark all potential obstacles or hazards.
heads up - know the code, it's your responsibility the keystone skier and snowboarder responsibility program is designed to communicate, educate and enforce the basics of responsible, courteous skiing and snowboarding as outlined in your responsibility code and the colorado skier safety act.
extreme terrain extreme terrain contains cliffs, very steep slopes as well as rocks and other hazards.
be aware these ratings are determined by size, not degree of  difficulty, and are relative only to that resort.
always ride or ski  in control and within your ability level.
in addition to people using traditional alpine ski  equipment, you may be joined on the slopes by snowboarders, telemark skiers or  cross-country skiers, skiers with disabilities, skiers with specialized  equipment and others.
fast and aggressive skiing will not be  tolerated.
if the symptoms do not subside shortly,  a doctor should be called.
always stay in control.
you must not stop where you obstruct a trail, or are not visible from above.
pursuant to the colorado ski  safety act, the ski area assumes no responsibility for skiers going beyond the  ski area boundary.
you must obey the  act.
space and speed  are especially important in these areas.
the sweet spot is between the "knuckle" and center of the landing zone.
• be aware that features change constantly due to snow conditions, weather, usage, grooming and time of day.
know your limits and ski/ride within your ability level look for small progression parks or features to begin with and work your way up freestyle skills require maintaining control on the ground and in the air do not attempt any features unless you have sufficient ability and experience to do so safely inverted aerials increase your risk of injury and are not recommended before getting into freestyle terrain observe all signage and warnings scope around the jumps first not over them
keystone encourages our guests to  educate themselves on the benefits and limitations of winter sports helmets.
• landing zone is the prepared slope between the knuckle and the runout beyond it.
respect gets respect respect the terrain and others
always use devices to help prevent runaway equipment.
skiing or boarding extreme  terrain is for experts only.
observe signs and warnings, and keep off closed  trails.
regardless of how you decide to enjoy the slopes, always show courtesy to others and be aware that there are elements of risk in skiing that common sense and personal awareness can help reduce.
always use devices to help prevent runaway  equipment.
there was an error with your request.
prior to using any lift, you must have the  knowledge and ability to load,  ride and unload safely.
keep off closed trails and out of closed  areas.
your speed, approach and takeoff will directly affect your maneuver and landing.
use your first run as a warm up run and to familiarize yourself with the  terrain be aware that the features change constantly due to weather, usage,  grooming and time of day do not jump blindly and use a spotter when necessary 4.
you control the degree of difficulty you will encounter in using freestyle terrain, both on the ground and in the air.
certain areas (indicated on the map in  yellow) are designated as slow zones.
those with one or more of these symptoms may have acute mountain sickness (ams).
every time you use freestyle terrain, make a plan for each feature you want to use.
if you own a peaks card or season pass, you're already in our system.
• inverted maneuvers are not recommended.
it is part of your responsibility under the your responsibility code and the colorado ski safety act to avoid all obstacles and hazards.
each feature can be broken down into 4 zones.
smart style is a terrain park specific safety program that  you should check out before using terrain parks.
use a spotter when necessary.
always ride or ski in control and within your ability level.
• know the intended use of the freestyle terrain you have chosen.
some  resorts designate features as small, medium and large.
you are  responsible for inspecting freestyle terrain before initial use and throughout the day.
be aware these ratings every time you use freestyle terrain, make a plan for each feature you want to use.
keystone discourages the use of electronic devices – cell phones, music players, or earphones – while skiing and snowboarding, or loading and unloading lifts.
above 8,000 feet, altitude illness affects 20 percent to 30 percent of visitors from low elevations to some degree.
regardless of whether or not you choose to wear a helmet, every winter sport  participant shares responsibility for his or her safety and for that of others  using the ski area facilities.
for example, some features are intended to be used in a series with no stopping and some individually with stopping areas; jump takeoffs are for jumping and rail takeoffs are for entering onto rails.
• approach zone is the space for setting your speed and stance to use the feature.
in addition, the  heart is likely to beat faster and one may develop nausea, unusual tiredness,  headache, or have difficulty sleeping.
information about all six of our mountains in one place.
drink two or three times more water or fluid than usual.
view smart style video • know your limits and ability level and select the appropriate freestyle terrain for you.
a summary of the inherent risks is listed below: warning under colorado law, a skier assumes the risk of any injury to person or property resulting from any of the inherent dangers and risks of skiing and may not recover from any ski area operator for any injury resulting from any of the inherent dangers and risks of skiing, including: changing weather conditions; existing and changing snow conditions; bare spots; rocks; stumps; trees; collisions with natural objects, man-made objects, or other skiers; variations in terrain; and the failure of skiers to ski within their own abilities.
wait your turn and call your start.
respect  freestyle terrain and others.
observe the code listed below and share  with other skiers the responsibility for a great skiing experience.
click here for  more tips on what to bring.
avalanches,  unmarked obstacles and other natural hazards exist.
observe “your responsibility code” listed below and share with other skiers the responsibility for a great skiing experience.
inverted aerials are not recommended.
symptoms may include headaches, nausea, loss of appetite, restless sleep,  coughing and difficulty in breathing.
skiing and snowboarding can be enjoyed in many ways.
at ski areas you may see people using alpine, snowboard, telemark, cross country and other specialized ski equipment, such as that used by disabled or other skiers.
trail map ski safety 1.
freestyle terrain has designations for size.
you control the degree of difficulty you will encounter in using freestyle  terrain, both on the ground and in the air.
the colorado legislature, recognizing risks that are inherent in the sport, has passed the colorado ski safety act, which provides inherent risks of the sport and relative responsibilities of the "skier" and the ski area.
fast and aggressive skiing will not be tolerated.
caution – snowcats, snowmobiles and snowmaking may be encountered at any time.
it is part of your  responsibility under the your responsibility code and the colorado ski safety  act to avoid all obstacles and hazards.
some visitors may  experience symptoms associated with [resort name]’s high altitude.
skiers and riders should be advised that a green circle, blue square or  black diamond at keystone is not necessarily the same as a green circle, blue  square or black diamond at other resorts.
observe the code listed below and share with other skiers the responsibility for a great skiing experience.
your actions can take you out of balance and cause serious injury or death, no matter how the feature is designed or where you land.
it will be costly and may take  time.
avoid wearing cotton clothing in winter because it absorbs moisture and doesn't insulate when it's wet.
it is your responsibility to avoid  them.
in addition to people using traditional alpine ski equipment, you may be joined on the slopes by snowboarders, telemark skiers or cross-country skiers, skiers with disabilities, skiers with specialized equipment and others.
your speed, approach and takeoff will  directly affect your maneuver and landing.
these markers are no guarantee of your safety.
you may not use a lift or any ski trail when under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
at ski areas you may  see people using alpine, snowboard, telemark, cross country and other  specialized ski equipment, such as that used by disabled or other skiers.
only one person on a feature at a time.
always show courtesy to others and be aware that there  are elements of risk in skiing and snowboarding that common sense and personal  awareness can help reduce.
use a spotter when  necessary.
freestyle terrain areas are designated with an orange oval and may contain jumps, hits, ramps, banks, fun boxes, jibs, rails, half pipes, quarter pipes, snowcross, bump terrain and other constructed or natural terrain features.
be safety conscious and know the code.
search for a vacation deal
keystone encourages our guests to educate themselves on the benefits and limitations of winter sports helmets.
colorado ski safety act.
it know your limits and ski/ride within your ability level look for small progression parks or features to begin with and work your  way up freestyle skills require maintaining control on the ground and in the air do not attempt any features unless you have sufficient ability and  experience to do so safely inverted aerials increase your risk of injury and are not recommended 3.
whenever starting downhill or merging, look  uphill and yield.
• approach zone is the space for setting your speed  and stance to use the feature.
extreme terrain extreme terrain contains cliffs, very  steep slopes as well as rocks and other hazards.
connect with friends.
know your ability level and stay within it.
limit alcohol consumption for two or three days and minimize caffeine intake.
people ahead of you have the right of way.
email addresssign up please wait a moment while we load your cart.
keep off closed trails and out of closed areas.
observe signs and warnings, and keep off closed trails.
look before you leap.
freestyle skills require maintaining control on the ground,  and in the air.
know how to use the lifts safely.
a summary of the inherent risks is listed below: warning under colorado law, a skier assumes the risk  of any injury to person or property resulting from any of the inherent dangers  and risks of skiing and may not recover from any ski area operator for any  injury resulting from any of the inherent dangers and risks of skiing,  including: changing weather conditions; existing and changing snow conditions;  bare spots; rocks; stumps; trees; collisions with natural objects, man-made  objects, or other skiers; variations in terrain; and the failure of skiers to  ski within their own abilities.
you must obey the act.
prior to using freestyle terrain, you are responsible for familiarizing yourself with freestyle terrain and obeying all instructions, warnings and signs.
when marked, poles, flags, fencing, signage, padding or other forms of marking  are used to inform the skier/rider of the location of a potential obstacle or  hazard.
be aware: the backcountry  avalanche hazard may be extreme.
you may not use a  lift or any ski trail when under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
rescue in the backcountry, if available, is  the responsibility of the summit county sheriff.
• know where to land.
your speed, approach and takeoff will directly affect your maneuver and  landing.
receive alerts from our resorts.
get the latest articles, videos and photos from our mountains.
start small and work your way up.
your actions can take you out of balance and  cause serious injury or death, no matter how the feature is designed or where you land.
the first thing most people notice is a shortness of breath, especially when exercising.
upon arrival in this area, take it easy for the  first day or two.
temperatures range from 50 degrees fahrenheit during the day to well below 0 degrees fahrenheit at night.
respect freestyle terrain and others.
please refresh the page and try again.curr =keystone username password save your trip itineraries, receive snow alerts, and check out quickly and easily.
areas beyond the ski area boundary are not patrolled or maintained.
• takeoff zone is for making moves that start your  trick.
the sweet spot is between the  "knuckle" and center of the landing zone.
prior to using freestyle terrain, you are responsible  for familiarizing yourself with freestyle terrain and obeying all instructions,  warnings and signs.
respect gets respect.
search last updated 0 hours ago last updated 03/07/2012 at 04:48 am book online or call 800-328-1323 (001-970-496-4500) to speak with a local expert.
symptoms may include headaches, nausea, loss of appetite, restless sleep, coughing and difficulty in breathing.
in addition, the heart is likely to beat faster and one may develop nausea, unusual tiredness, headache, or have difficulty sleeping.
if symptoms persist or if you have a  concern about your health, you should seek medical attention.
the system is a relative rating of trails at each resort and does not compare trail difficulty between resorts.
pursuant to the colorado ski safety act, the ski area assumes no responsibility for skiers going beyond the ski area boundary.
even if you land on or near the sweet spot, you  can still be seriously injured or die if your landing posture is not correct.
make a plan every time you use freestyle terrain, make a plan for each feature  you want to use.
most importantly, listen to your body.
read and obey all posted signs, instructions and warnings before using freestyle terrain.•
keystone discourages the use  of electronic devices – cell phones, music players, or earphones –  while skiing and snowboarding, or loading and unloading lifts.
• landing zone is the prepared slope between the  knuckle and the runout beyond it.
• be aware that features change constantly due to  snow conditions, weather, usage, grooming  and time of day.
please observe the posted slow areas by  maintaining a speed no faster than the general flow of traffic.
use of freestyle terrain exposes you to the risk of serious injury or death.
respect all signs and do not enter freestyle terrain or use features when closed.