a competitive edge in future markets and the global marketplace.
in taking advantage of this window of opportunity, young learners  enjoy a wide range of benefits: linguistic benefits young language learners can acquire native-like fluency as easily as they  learned to walk, in contrast to an adult language learner.
research shows that multilinguals use more of their brains than monolinguals and outperform monolinguals on creativity tests.
where adults have to work through an established first-language system,  studying explicit grammar rules and practicing rote drills, the young kids  learn naturally, absorbing the sounds, structures, intonation patterns and  rules of a second language intuitively, as they did their mother tongue.
you need javascript enabled to view it.
parent testimonials the benefits of learning language young young children are uniquely suited to learning a second language.
where adult learners  have to work through an established first-language system, studying explicit  grammar rules and practicing rote drills, the young learner learns naturally,  absorbing the sounds, structures, intonation patterns and rules of a second  language intuitively, as they did their mother tongue.
young learners enrich their lives and open up doors to their future by gaining:
never again will it be this natural or this easy!
the research goes on to show a number of additional cognitive benefits to learning a second language at an early age.
where adults have to work through an established first-language system, studying explicit grammar rules and practicing rote drills, the young kids learn naturally, absorbing the sounds, structures, intonation patterns and rules of a second language intuitively, as they did their mother tongue.
when learning multiple languages young, the brain is trained to attend to salient information and to disregard non-pertinent information, a skill that later supports better focus, memory, planning and multitasking abilities.
older learners lose the ability to hear and reproduce new sounds by age 8-12, according to experts, resulting in a permanent foreign-sounding accent in any language.
learning a second language at a young age is cognitively as  easy as learning a first language.
research shows that multilinguals use more  of their brains than monolinguals and outperform monolinguals on creativity  tests.
while some parents worry that starting their toddler on a second language will interfere with developing english skills, the opposite is actually true.
learning a second language at a young age is cognitively as easy as learning a first language.
the young brain is inherently flexible, uniquely hard-wired to acquire language naturally.
ability to learn additional languages more easily.
younger learners benefit from flexible ear and speech muscles  that can still hear the critical differences between the sounds of a second  language, as well as reproduce them with native-like quality.
young children are uniquely suited to learning a second  language.
exposing your child to a second language while young allows a child to  optimize his or her learning potential, helping to shape the brain at its most  flexible stage.
the  young brain is inherently flexible and uniquely hard-wired to acquire language  naturally.
the developing brain is hard-wired to acquire language.
children can differentiate between two languages within the first weeks of life.
the research goes on to show a number of additional cognitive benefits to  learning a second language at an early age.
learning a second language early on encourages flexible thinking  and communication skills, helping children consider issues from more than one  perspective.
learning a second language early on encourages flexible thinking and communication skills, helping children consider issues from more than one perspective.
exposing your child to a second language while young allows a child to optimize his or her learning potential, helping to shape the brain at its most flexible stage.
young children can acquire native-like fluency as easily as they learned to walk.
additionally, research shows that multilinguals have enhanced memory,  planning, and multi-tasking skills.
never again will it be this  natural or this easy!
cognitive benefits while some parents worry that starting their toddler on a second language  will interfere with developing english skills, the opposite is actually true.
according to the college entrance examination board, they go on to score higher  on sats.
when learning multiple languages young, the  brain is trained to attend to salient information and to disregard  non-pertinent information, a skill that later supports better focus, memory,  planning and multitasking abilities.
children learn a second language naturally
according to the college entrance examination board, they go on to score higher on sats.
"learning another language actually enhances a child's overall verbal development," says roberta michnick golinkoff ph.d., author of how babies talk.
children who study foreign language show higher cognitive performance in overall basic skills in elementary school.
additionally, research shows that multilinguals have enhanced memory, planning, and multi-tasking skills.
young children can acquire native-like fluency as easily as they learned to  walk.
children who study foreign language  show higher cognitive performance in overall basic skills in elementary school.
children who learn a foreign language at a young age also exhibit  better problem-solving skills, enhanced spatial relations, and heightened  creativity.
the  developing brain is hard-wired to acquire language.
the young brain is inherently flexible and uniquely hard-wired to acquire language naturally.
children who learn a foreign language at a young age also exhibit better problem-solving skills, enhanced spatial relations, and heightened creativity.
the young brain is  inherently flexible, uniquely hard-wired to acquire language naturally.
where adult learners have to work through an established first-language system, studying explicit grammar rules and practicing rote drills, the young learner learns naturally, absorbing the sounds, structures, intonation patterns and rules of a second language intuitively, as they did their mother tongue.
click to view video of our education director karen gould discuss the  benefits of learning a language young.
lifelong benefits the gift of language is an investment that last a lifetime!
on language learning...  "americans who travel abroad for the first  time are often shocked to discover that, despite all the progress that has been  made in the last 30 years, many foreign people still speak in foreign  languages.
" dave barry call us at 866-557-8277 ©2011 language stars this e-mail address is being protected from spambots.
young learners enrich their lives and open up doors to their future by  gaining: an expanded world view.
in taking advantage of this window of opportunity, young learners enjoy a wide range of benefits: young language learners can acquire native-like fluency as easily as they learned to walk, in contrast to an adult language learner.
"learning another language actually enhances a child's overall  verbal development," says roberta michnick golinkoff ph.d., author of how babies talk.
the gift of language is an investment that last a lifetime!
older learners lose the ability to hear and reproduce new sounds by age  8-12, according to experts, resulting in a permanent foreign-sounding accent in  any language.
younger learners benefit from flexible ear and speech muscles that can still hear the critical differences between the sounds of a second language, as well as reproduce them with native-like quality.
click to view video of our education director karen gould discuss the benefits of learning a language young.
greater intercultural appreciation and sensitivity.
children can differentiate between two languages within the first weeks of  life.
young children are uniquely suited to learning a second language.