here are some of the highlights: -- look for the festival guide to be published on disney's website on august 12.
dining locations participating in the credit card guarantee policy will be as follows: pre-paid locations: â¢ cinderella's royal table â¢ spirit of aloha dinner show â¢ hoop-dee-doo musical revue â¢ mickey's backyard bbq credit card guarantee locations: â¢ 1900
sadly, the counter-service location bids farewell to the large mickey-shaped waffle and the yummy chicken and wild rice soup.
rainforest cafe in downtown disney orlando is undergoing refurbishment.
-- tables in wonderland presents: the wave . .
5-5:30 p.m.  reception; 5:30-7:45 p.m. dinner; 8:15-9 p.m. candlelight processional with  celebrity narrator chita rivera (entertainment subject to change without  notice); 9-10 p.m. illuminations viewing.
6:30 p.m. reception; 7:00 p.m. dinner.
to reserve a spot, call 407-939-2398.
for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items and photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com -- thanksgiving at the fort!
this will be part of the graduated opening of the resort.
this signature dinner on november 3 must be booked through disney dining, 407-wdw-dine when general reservations for the food and wine festival open on august 16.
for more  information about this package, call 407-824-4477 or email wdw.crt.special.events@disney.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- -- more dining notes -- a weekly round-up of  disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: --
- o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- more dining notes -- a round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: --
http://dvcnews.com/index.php/dvc-program/member-benefits/1854-tables-in-wonderland-now-available-to-dvc-members more dining notes -- a weekly round-up of  disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: --
start your morning with  cereal from a mickey bowl!
also, check out the swan  and dolphin resorts and the bonnet creek resorts for great new year's eve meals.
for a hearty choice, try the breakfast skillet with  eggs, pequillo peppers, nueske's bacon, onions, greek cheese, and sweet potato  hash topped with arugula for $13.99.
“from burgers to pasta, salads, ethnic flavors, omelets, even parfaits and gelatos, everything is made fresh as you order.”
wolfgang puck cafe (407-938-9653): -- culinary demonstration: 5 p.m. october 19 with chef chris albano will be preparing a pumpkin ravioli dish; $11 -- signature dinner: 6:30 p.m. october 12; $135 per person.
this may cause problems for guests who follow a  vegan diet and may affect other special diets.
make reservations by calling 407-wdw-dine.
option one: "a trip to the past, present, and  future" bull & bear - 6 p.m. to close.
tables in wonderland is presenting several special dinners: -- the wave . . .
new year's eve at hilton orlando bonnet creek -- info and reservations:  407-597-3600.
for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items and  photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com -- thanksgiving at the fort!
-- more dining notes -- a round-up of  disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: changes to the 2012 disney dining plan include: -- the standard disney dining plan now includes a resort  refillable mug for each person in your party.
-- illuminations dessert party at isle de france at epcot:
as part of the ongoing refurbishment and expansion of magic kingdom's  fantasyland,enchanted grove has been transformed into the cheshire cafe.
its reopening has been  postponed until april 28, 2012.
your credit card will be taken over the phone once your reservation  is confirmed.
highlights include: --
the 5:00 pm and 7:15 pm shows will go on as usual.
there is a disclaimer that recipes have been converted from large  batches to small kitchen use and thus the flavor may not be exactly as you  remembered.
for more details on other disney dining-related items, along with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- tables in wonderland is hosting another "discovery dinner" at the wave... of american flavors at disney's contemporary resort on thursday, january 19, 2012 at 6:30 p.m. the evening will celebrate central florida's strawberry season and will feature produce by lott farms, located just west of plant city, florida.
pick up is at min & bill's dockside diner from 11 a.m. through 1-1/2 hours prior to your selected show time.
itzakadoozie pops have been removed from the parks, replaced by the triple blast ice pop.
cost is $160 per person, plus tax.
-- mix together chocolate, wine, and romance at the waldorf astoria orlando every weekend in february with the resort's chocolate, wine, and romance weekends!
a discovery dinner will take place in the wave at the contemporary  resort on february 16, 2012.
-- target is now selling disney themed kitchenware.
victoria & albert's at the grand floridian resort and spa has received the aaa five-diamond award for the 12th consecutive year.
it's just for a short  while -- december 18 - 31, with reservations starting december 1 at  407-wdw-dine (a credit card guarantee is required).
cost is $25 (plus tax) per person.
copyright © dwills, all rights reserved, 1996-2000.
the new character dining experience will be called donald's dining safari lunch at tusker house and will feature donald and daisy duck and friends.
items sold include: cheese pizza, $4.50; pepperoni pizza, $5.25; mini cannoli, $3.50; soda – coke, sprite and diet coke, $2.50; dasani water, $2.50.
a delightful dessert  buffet will ensure nobody leaves hungry!
the disney wine & dine plan add-on is no longer available.
--art of animation resort's landscapes cafe to open in summer 2012 -
the wines will be sold at the italy shop even after the festival and will eventually be added to wine lists at select disney restaurants.
for reservations, e-mail wdw.tables.in.wonderland@disney.com with the following information: your interest to book, your name,  daytime phone number, home address, and the number of people in your party.
highlights include handmade chocolate truffles,  exotic chocolate cakes, rich hanukkah gelt, gourmet cocoa, pillows of chocolate  mousse and bowls of beautiful bon-bons.
- o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- more dining notes -- a weekly round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: cinderella's royal table has added a breakfast bread pudding to the menu!
the disney resort  gingerbread displays have a brand new component this year.
bar du chocolat is an evening opportunity to experience nearly 30 ala carte chocolate treats from waldorf astoria's dynamic display of decadence.
http://allears.net/tp/h_cpfaq.htm
dinner is $92 per person; includes tax and gratuity.
reception is at 6:30 p.m.; dinner starts at 7:00 p.m.
finding out how 900,000 sumptuous samplings, 338,000 wine glasses and 100,000 desserts are made and distributed over the 45 days of the epcot international food & wine festival --
guests will be notified.
yams --green beans --butternut squash with cranberries --cornbread stuffing --country
cost is $49 for ages 10 and up, $29 ages 3-9 (with a special kids' menu).
an automatic gratuity charge may also be added to the bill for items  ordered that are not included in the ddp (for example, alcoholic beverages).
all disney dining plan packages include a resort refillable drink mug allowing free refills, only at quick-service locations at the disney resort  where you are staying for the length of your current stay.
prices  $39 for adults.
itzakadoozie pops have been removed from the parks, replaced by the  triple blast ice pop.
dining experience" at disney's hollywood studios lets you  enjoy an affordable picnic plus reserved seating for fantasmic!, the park's  nightly extravaganza that takes guests inside the dreams of mickey mouse, into  a world where his magic creates dancing waters, shooting comets, animated  fountains, swirling stars, balls of fire and other amazing wonders.
this venue is treated as a quick-service restaurant option on the disney dining plan.
guests will meet the design and display team, learn  about what they do, see all the props up close, and enjoy a buffet reception  with fellow tables in wonderland members!
value resort - get quick service dining plan moderate, deluxe or villa - get disney dining plan valid for stays most nights: (blackout dates apply & subject to change & availability) 2011: 10/2-10/8, 10/23-11/5, 11/13-11/18, 11/27-12/3, 12/11-12/17 2012: 1/8-1/14, 1/22-2/4, 2/12-2/18, 3/4-3/10 and 3/25-3/31.
the french toast baklava is super-sweet and includes grilled fig and  anise country bread with honey, walnuts, and cinnamon along with bacon or  chicken sausage for $11.99.
enjoy our special ala carte holiday features from donna scala.
the automatic service charge will be eliminated for buffet breakfast and lunch at pepper market and an "optional tip" line will be added.
grand gathering experiences the grand gatherings safari celebration dinner, good morning gathering and international dinner & illuminations dessert reception will no longer be offered at the walt disney world resort as of january 28, 2012.
- o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- more dining notes -- a round-up of disney dining-related  tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: -- 2011 walt disney world resort gingerbread holiday display  commemorative pins are selling out fast.
new restaurants have been added to the disney dining plan for 2012.
the menu has remained the same (with prices going up slightly on several items).
price: $115 per person, plus tax.
see the ball drop on 10 large-screen  televisions.
of american flavors hosts another discovery dinneron thursday, february 17, 2011.
the new store also has a pharmacy.
a new publix supermarket has opened close to the  magic kingdom area at lakeside village center, 7880 winter garden vineland road  in windermere.
for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items and photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com tables in wonderland is hosting another special discovery dinner at the wave... of american flavors at the contemporary resort on thursday, november 17, 2011.
be sure to ask about ingredients  before you dig into that bread basket.
be sure to make reservations through wdw-dine if you'll be  spending turkey day in disney world.
present your kttw card at the time a meal or snack is  purchased and specify the number of meals or snacks being redeemed for guests  ages 10+ and for guests ages 3-9.
in addition, the breakfast potatoes are  now a potato hash.
-- disney was a winner at cheers magazine's 2012 "cheers beverage excellence awards" for "best chain multi-concept beverage program."
the bakery, located in the downtown disney marketplace is open 9:30 a.m. until 11 p.m. daily.
the cake will then be served to you toward the end of your meal.
-- vinylmation fans should stay alert for the new  vinylmation popcorns, an updated version of the popular figures, that are due  for a summer release.
there will be a number of culinary adventures in signature dining at various locations (october 6, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 27, 30, november 1, 2, 3, 7, 10).
these lights have debuted in disneyland and aboard the disney cruise ships.
cost is $92 per person (includes tax and  gratuity).
rainforest cafe in downtown  disney orlando is undergoing refurbishment.
guests can choose from a signature selection of chocolate treats from the  hotel's talented executive pastry chef kurtis baguley, featuring time-honored  recipes from around the globe.
as for desserts, the lemon pie is gone, but a new irish  whiskey-caramel creme brulee has been added.
while the beloved homemade ice cream sandwich remains, the addition of three newwaffle sandwiches is the big news.
if you see the chocolate cheddar caramel version, try it out.
the "3d" disney's dessert discovery returns on october 7, 14, 21, 28, and november 4, 11.
reserved viewing is first come, first served, so get there early!
according to designer thomas scott, the characters will  have a fresh look.
to accommodate holiday crowds, thediamond horseshoe saloon is serving a counter-service lunch december 17 - 31st from 11 a.m. â 3 p.m. -- downtown disney's earl of sandwich is boasting improved ice cream brownie sandwiches for dessert.
the consumables team reports that sales are high for this new  concoction.
5-5:30 p.m. reception; 5:30-7:45 p.m. dinner; 8:15-9 p.m. candlelight processional with celebrity narrator chita rivera (entertainment subject to change without notice); 9-10 p.m. illuminations viewing.
-- black tie blue jeans special event.
the dine-in theatres are in six auditoriums at amc downtown disney, and they feature casual, in-theatre dining with an extensive menu (quesadillas, burgers, flatbread pizzas, grilled sandwiches, house specialties, as well as appetizers and desserts) and a wide variety of alcoholic and non-alcoholic specialty drinks, beer and wine.
orlando's exclusive new year's eve experience at  waldorf astoria, a journey that unfolds throughout five courses prepared by  chef david sears.
children 3-9 must order from a children's menu where available at  all quick-service and table-service restaurants (tsr).
lightly smoked duck breast, strawberry gastrique, risotto with  braised rhubarb and celery; and a trio of fresh from florida strawberry flavors  featuring: strawberry-champagne sorbet, no sugar added strawberry panna cotta,  and brown sugar glazed pound cake with strawberry tuile.
the indoor dining area will be expanded.
if you're sailing soon, check out the jamon wrapped shrimp, which features seasonal ingredients.
-- specialty bakery babycakesnyc is now  offering walt disney world resort guests the chance to order two-layer, 6"  cakes (serves 8-10 people) to go along with their dining reservations.
for pricing and more details: http://land.allears.net/blogs/dnews/2011/05/a_new_intheatre_dining_experie.html tables in wonderland has announced several special dining events exclusively for its members during the month of may: -- flower power happy hour at the american adventure parlor at epcot:
yakitori house in epcot's japan will be closed for refurbishment august 10 through november 15, 2011.
special guests for the evening will be jenny and dick dore, marketing director/proprietor of foxen wines in santa maria, california.
the form has room for your name, email address or mailing address, and the recipe that you are requesting.
'ohana at the polynesian resort closed for refurbishments yesterday, january 17.
only 12 participants per lunch.
-- also, don't forget to book your candlelight processional dining packages --they're going fast!
the indoor  dining area will be expanded.
(packages are not available for sunday, december 4, at 5 p.m. -- it is a special, community relations showing of the candlelight processional.)
-- kouzzina at disney's boardwalk has new breakfast  items.
-- plaza ice cream parlor (magic kingdom) is under refurb  and may be closed january 4 - march 27 for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items, along  with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- -- new year's eve specialty dinners in epcot - special dining
a delightful dessert buffet will ensure nobody leaves hungry!
a new glazed almond and pecan stand has been  installed in epcot's france pavilion for the holiday season.
all trademarks, service marks, and trade names are proprietary to disney enterprises, inc., its subsidiary, affiliated and related companies, as the case may be.
the popular fish, which fights its way 25 miles upriver to spawn in alaska's copper river, is only available a few weeks each year.
updated pricing: standard dining plan (value and regular season) $51.54 per night ages 10+ and $15.02 per night ages 3-9 standard dining plan (peak season) $53.54 per night ages 10+ and $16.02 per night ages 3-9 deluxe dining plan (value and regular season) $85.52 per night ages 10+ and $23.79 per night ages 3-9 deluxe dining plan (peak season) $89.52 per night ages 10+ and $25.79 per night ages 3-9 premium dining plan $179 per night ages 10+ and $124 per night ages 3-9 platinum dining plan $239 per night ages 10+ and $170 per night ages 3-9 for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items, along with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com the disney dining plan will feature a number of changes effective january 1, 2012:
there is a disclaimer that recipes have been converted from large batches to small kitchen use and thus the flavor may not be exactly as you remembered.
fried chicken with maple-glazed sweet potato and baby spinach salad, broccoli and cranberry salad and cheesecake, $14.99 -- veggie wrap with avocado spread, tabbouleh, avocado and tomato salad with citrus vinaigrette and chocolate cake, $14.99 -- olive oil poached salmon with couscous salad with dried cranberries and peas, roasted beet and apple salad and key lime pie, $14.99 -- teriyaki and orange marinated beef with udon noodle salad and caramelized vegetables and sesame mandarin vinaigrette, seaweed salad with gingered carrots and mandarin orange cheesecake, $14.99 -- fresh fruits, brie, dipped strawberries and focaccia bread, $11.99 -- chocolate-dipped pretzels, strawberries and marshmallows with chocolate dipping sauce, $9.99 -- kid's meal with turkey and american cheese wrap and strawberry yogurt, apples and carrots with ranch dip and seven-layer cookie bar, $5.49 -- kid's meal power pack with goldfish crackers, strawberry yogurt, string cheese, apples and carrots with ranch dip and a seven-layer cookie bar, $5.49 - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- more dining notes -- a round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: -- trail's end restaurant at the fort wilderness resort and campground has a new baked potato bar during the dinner buffet offered each evening.
wolfgang puck express in the downtown disney marketplace will be closed beginning sunday, may 15, and will reopen on may 25.
$149 per person, 5-course prix-fixe menu; $59 for children under 12 years of age.
guests will meet the design and display team, learn about what they do, see all the props up close, and enjoy a buffet reception with fellow tables in wonderland members!
after watching each episode, you will be able to access the recipes for all featured dishes.
the "book-by" date for 2012 free dining has been extended to december 17, 2011.
-- harvest bistro: enjoy the christmas eve holiday  buffet at harvest bistro, from 6-10pm on dec. 24.
children are encouraged to attend the on-site wa kids 'rock in the new year' party, available through wa kids club.
-- most restaurants at wdw, with the exception of those at the wdw swan and dolphin, are now accepting the disney dining plan.
in france enjoy a four  course meal at 6:30pm or 10pm.
-- todd english's bluezoo unveils an interactive bar menu! - head to bluezoo in the walt disney world dolphin resort to experience a new, interactive digital bar menu!
the cost is $45 plus  tax and gratuity.
for more details on other disney dining-related items, along with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com -- the landscape of flavors at disney's art of animation resort (opening may 31, 2012) will feature five mini shops serving breakfast, lunch and dinner.
california grill â¢ cape may cafe â¢ chef mickey's â¢ cítricos â¢ the crystal palace â¢ flying fish cafe â¢ garden grill â¢ hollywood and vine â¢ jiko â
the list of eligible snack items has expanded and includes a large  variety of single-serving food and beverage items at carts, kiosks,  quick-service and select merchandise locations across property.
we received word this week that disney's hollywood studios has changed the bread rolls served at table-service meals to a version that contains egg.
for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items, along with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com --the pizza window at the boardwalk is now accepting the disney dining plan: -- one quick service coupon includes: 1 slice of pizza;1 soft drink; 1 dessert -- two quick service coupons include: 1 whole pizza; 2 soft drinks; 2 desserts http://allears.net/pl/packages11a.htm more dining notes -- a round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: --
flying fish cafe on the boardwalk will host several wine dinners during the 2011 food and wine festival, in addition to its previously announced official signature dinner on november 3, featuring moet & chandon wines.
-- walt disney world swan and dolphin food &  wine classic will be held next year on october 12 - 13, 2012.
for reservations call 407-842-1107.
a new publix supermarket has opened close to the magic kingdom area at lakeside village center, 7880 winter garden vineland road in windermere.
cost for the event is $80/person (which includes the "sweet seat" reservation).
copper river king salmon is now on the nightly menu at artist point at disney's wilderness lodge.
individual announcements about these wine dinners will be released closer to the dates, and you will be able to book reservations at that time through flying fish.
seating is limited to just 30 guests.
olive oil poached salmon with couscous salad with dried cranberries and  peas, roasted beet and apple salad and key lime pie, $14.99 -- teriyaki and orange marinated beef with udon noodle salad and  caramelized vegetables and sesame mandarin vinaigrette, seaweed salad with  gingered carrots and mandarin orange cheesecake, $14.99 -- fresh fruits, brie, dipped strawberries and focaccia bread, $11.99 -- chocolate-dipped pretzels, strawberries and marshmallows with chocolate  dipping sauce, $9.99 -- kid's meal with turkey and american cheese wrap and strawberry yogurt,  apples and carrots with ranch dip and seven-layer cookie bar, $5.49 -- kid's meal power pack with goldfish crackers, strawberry yogurt, string  cheese, apples and carrots with ranch dip and a seven-layer cookie bar, $5.49 - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- more dining notes -- a round-up of disney dining-related  tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: -- trail's end restaurant at the fort wilderness resort  and campground has a new baked potato bar during the dinner buffet offered each  evening.
-- kouzzina at disney's boardwalk has new breakfast items.
- o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- more dining notes -- a round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: -- 2011 walt disney world resort gingerbread holiday display commemorative pins are selling out fast.
[priced per piece] -- bull & bear steakhouse: on christmas eve, bull & bear steakhouse  opens an hour early (at 5pm), featuring an a la carte menu.
prices exclude tax and gratuity.
-- sand trap bar and grill at the osprey ridge golf will be closed sunday, august 14th, 2011 due to a private function and august 15 - 21, 2011 due to golf course maintenance.
- o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-
http://www.allears.net/tp/h_cpfaq.htm hoop-dee-doo musical revue show times change - beginning november 13, 2011 through february 11, 2012, a test of new show times will take place.
the meal will include turkey, potatoes, stuffing, cranberry and more with an irish flair.
the event is limited to 50 guests.
- o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- -- more dining notes -- a weekly round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: -- japan's new outdoor sake bar is serving specialty drinks, bottled beer, and draft beer to quench your thirst while strolling in world showcase.
for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items, along with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- pepper market at coronado springs resort testing breakfast and lunch buffet, december 4, 2011 - january 4, 2012.
it's just for a short while -- december 18 - 31, with reservations starting december 1 at 407-wdw-dine (a credit card guarantee is required).
http://land.allears.net/blogs/dnews/2011/06/victoria_alberts_once_again_re.html the flying fish cafe on disney's boardwalk is holding another of its winery series events, featuring special guest winemaker/owner john duval of john duval wines, on tuesday, june 14, 2011.
as an organic advocate, ben has collaborated with some of the nation's leading university agricultural scientists implementing field trials designed to prove the beneficial impact of sustainable agriculture on the environment, while emphasizing the importance of growing nutrient dense foods.
(macguffins bar & lounge guests must be at least 18 years old; minors accompanied by a parent or guardian [at least 21] are welcome).
on your next visit to a disney park, keep an eye out for interesting flavors ofpre-packaged popcorn.
a percentage of sales will be allocated directly to feed projects, which supports projects to eliminate hunger and malnutrition around the world.
a special, halloween-themed mickey's backyard bbq will be held on october 31 from 5 to 7 p.m.
you  will be notified on a first-come, first-served basis.
effective march 1, 2011, dinner at le cellier steakhouse will become a signature dining experience.
choose between cinnamon-glazed almonds or pecans while touring world showcase.
this announcement comes on the heels of walt disney world's new dining reservation cancellation and credit card guarantee policies that went into effect on october 26.
the entire package is $90 plus tax and 18% gratuity (for a total of $112.05).
(we greatly enjoyed the pork duo.)
while details are still being finalized, these seminars and others may also be offered in 2011, along with samples of cuisine from an assortment of swan and dolphin hotel restaurants.
-- disney has released "jingle smells," which are vinylmations that carry the scent of holiday food favorites like chocolate, peppermint, marshmallow and gingerbread!
there will be a special vertical wine tasting featuring freemark abbey wines at the california grill on november 5.
fort wilderness resort and campground  is doing their annual thanksgiving at the fort lunch/dinner this year on  thursday, november 24, 2011.
the event is limited to 40 guests and is exclusive to tables in wonderland members.
the consumables team reports that sales are high for this new concoction.
new year's eve at hilton orlando bonnet creek -- info and reservations: 407-597-3600.
you cannot  substitute the dessert for an appetizer or salad.
-- kitchen memories, formerly celebrating family & friends in the kitchen, returns on september 30, october 7, 14, 21, 28, november 4, 11.
smaller portions of each so you can try all of the favorites!
saturday march 5, 2011 6:45 - 9 p.m.at the magic kingdom's diamond horseshoe saloon.
your credit card will be taken over the phone once your reservation is confirmed.
the flying fish cafe is hosting another in its winery  series events on february 2, 2012.
of american flavors discovery dinner -- thursday, april 21, 2011 at the wave at the contemporary resort.
you'll find yours right at your table!
menu items will include strawberry tea poached beef short rib with sweet shiraz puree and truffle oil; strawberry champagne with wild caught shrimp and mint syrup; myakka heirloom tomatoes, fresh mozzarella, aged balsamic strawberries and odessa;
-- harvest bistro - enjoy a special dinner buffet from 5-10pm, where kids dine for free!
the cooking place â¢ le cellier steakhouse â¢
the event is limited to 250 guests.
many of  them have scannable qr codes that show guests videos and information about the  gingerbread creations --directly on their smartphones or other portable devices.
--  most restaurants at wdw, with the exception of those at the wdw swan and  dolphin, are now accepting the disney dining plan.
the brand new appetizer list includes queso con jalapeno and crab tostadas.
portobello (407-934-8888): -- culinary demonstrations: 1 p.m. october 7 with chef steven richard preparing his one of a kind "biramisu" dessert, $11; and 1 p.m. october 20 with james beard foundation award-winning chef tony mantuano preparing insalatina di cappensante dorate, $13 -- signature dinner: 6:30 p.m. october 20 in the restaurant's waterside trattoria with chefs steven richard and tony mantuano; $150 per person.
by the glass, it's selling for around $6.
see mousefantravel.com for more details!
dress code - casual evening attire.
-- be our guest restaurant in walt disney world's magic kingdom  will open in late 2012.
as part of the ongoing refurbishment and expansion of magic kingdom's fantasyland,enchanted grove has been transformed into the cheshire cafe.
also, there's  a red and green version of the soft serve swirl cone available.
the packages include a meal, reserved seating at the show and pre-arranged fireworks viewing.
during the renovation, the restaurant will remain open.
celebrate  the season with the perfect blend of sweet and spice!
http://disneyparks.disney.go.com/blog/2011/09/get-first-taste-of-new-wine-exclusively-for-disney-parks-at-this-year%e2%80%99s-epcot-international-food-wine-festival/ --
for guests looking to bring in 2012 in  style.
pick up your meal at your convenience and then you're on your own  for an easy picnic lunch or dinner.
also, check out the swan and dolphin resorts and the bonnet creek resorts for great new year's eve meals.
prices $29 for adults.
some reservations for culinary demos and beverage seminars can also be made online.
your credit card will be  taken over the phone once your reservation is confirmed.
price is  $52.99 for ages 10 and older; $31.99 for ages 3 to 9.
if you're sailing soon, check out the jamon wrapped shrimp, which  features seasonal ingredients.
reserved  viewing is first come, first served, so get there early!
-- zeta bar will be transformed into the "bubble lounge," featuring live entertainment from 8 pm until midnight, and a selection of champagnes by the glass and bottle.
try the lime sake cocktail!
-- storybook treats in the magic kingdom's  fantasyland introduced (officially) the hot fudge cookie sundae.
we've received feedback that people have been receiving recipes a few days after turning in these cards (which you can get from your server).
-- wolfgang puck cafe, portobello, raglan road, and fulton's crab house in downtown disney have announced prix fixe thanksgiving menus available next week.
-- pot roast sandwich and seasonal kiosks at disney's  hollywood studios -there's a seasonal pot roast sandwich available at  studio catering company along with two seasonal food kiosks now open in  disney's hollywood studios.
this event  is exclusive to tables in wonderland members.
further info has been revealed about the rainforest cafe's ongoing refurbishment in downtown disney orlando.
upon completion in october 2012, a  new lounge area, exterior updates and an updated volcano will be unveiled.
dress: jacket and tie required; black-tie preferred.
-- epcot wine schools will be held october 9, 16, 23, 30, and november 5.
the landscape of flavors at disney's art of animation resort (opening may 31, 2012) will feature five mini shops serving  breakfast, lunch and dinner.
this dining experience  includes a choice of entrees, including a holiday goose carved tableside, along  with special selections created by chef david sears.
casey's corner in the magic kingdom will be closed for refurbishment august 30 through september 14.
-- disney has partnered  with charity in an effort to end child hunger by using the "it's a small  world" brand.
while the quick service plan price remains the same as last year, increases were made to the remaining dining plans.
wine pairing available,  but not included in the prix-fixe price.
-- harvest bistro: enjoy the christmas eve holiday buffet at harvest bistro, from 6-10pm on dec. 24.
peacock alley is transformed into a chocolate boudoir, offering an evening of self indulgence.
and to celebrate the new year, adults will receive one complimentary glass of champagne.
as you'll recall, this location is right next to the mad tea party, so the cheshire cat tie-in does make a bit more sense.
new times will be 4:00pm, 6:15pm and 8:30pm.
seats are based on the number of guests in  your party (entrees ordered must be equal to or greater than your party size).
reception at 6:30 p.m.; dinner at 7 p.m.
as an  organic advocate, ben has collaborated with some of the nation's leading  university agricultural scientists implementing field trials designed to prove  the beneficial impact of sustainable agriculture on the environment, while  emphasizing the importance of growing nutrient dense foods.
traditionally served warm, this drink has hints of cinnamon, vanilla, and citrus.
-- gluhwein (spiced red wine) is being served again in epcot's germany at the christmas market booth.
tutto italia in the italy pavilion in epcot's world showcase is currently closed for a refurbishment.
these shirts can be purchased at  a wdw gift shop or via wdw merchandise mail order at 877-560-6477.
seats are based on the number of guests in your party (entrees ordered must be equal to or greater than your party size).
shows will be adjusted to one hour earlier!
if you see the  chocolate cheddar caramel version, try it out.
price is $52.99 for ages 10 and older; $31.99 for ages 3 to 9.
mother and daughter hostspam brandon and katie farmand give you a behind-the-scenes look into the food and special events of disney parks.
the festival runs september 30 through november 13.
santa will  make appearances from 6-9pm, in front of harvest bistro.
kouzzina by cat cora on disney's boardwalk will not serve breakfast on october 30, 2011, due to an epcot food and wine festival event being held at that location.
$175/person at tutto italia on october 23, noon - 3 p.m. other details about the new and returned offerings can be found on our food and wine festival pages: http://allears.net/tp/ep/foodwine.htm -- walt disney world's house of blues location in downtown disney is now offering d23 members 15 percent off meals.
sadly, the counter-service location bids farewell to  the large mickey-shaped waffle and the yummy chicken and wild rice soup.
it's currently being sold as a test flavor.
as you'll recall, this location is right next  to the mad tea party, so the cheshire cat tie-in does make a bit more sense.
you choose which performance you'd like to attend when you order your meal.
more details about special dining experiences at the 16th annual epcot international food and wine festival have been released in the disney parks blog: -- the preview first bites opening reception will be september 29, 6:30-9 p.m. --
many of them have scannable qr codes that show guests videos and information about the gingerbread creations --directly on their smartphones or other portable devices.
the event is limited to 44 guests.
-- pot roast sandwich and seasonal kiosks at disney's hollywood studios -there's a seasonal pot roast sandwich available at studio catering company along with two seasonal food kiosks now open in disney's hollywood studios.
the entire  package is $90 plus tax and 18% gratuity (for a total of $112.05).
wdw restaurant and dining news archives 2010 restaurant and dining news 2009 restaurant and  dining news 2008 restaurant and dining news 2007 restaurant and dining news february 2012 disney vacation club members are now  eligible to purchase thetables in wonderland dining discount card for use at many walt disney world restaurants.
other key points of the disney dining plan that have been better defined include: more dining notes -- a round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: -- walt disney world new year's eve dining and special events - there are quite a few great new year's eve and new year's day dining options available in walt disney world this year, including events at atlantic dance hall, california grill, the world showplace in epcot, and
for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items and photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com dining notes -- a round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: -- zagat named victoria & albert's at the grand floridian resort to their best restaurants list and notes it as the best place to dine in orlando.
macguffins bar & lounge is a full-service bar and lounge area inside amc downtown disney 24 that features a variety of beer, wine, cocktails and the full dine-in theatre menu, including appetizers and desserts.
special guests for the evening will be jenny  and dick dore, marketing director/proprietor of foxen wines in santa maria,  california.
-- epcot's rose and crown was among the many restaurants  changing up the menu in walt disney world this fall.
cost is $149 per person (inclusive of gratuity) plus tax.
children under 12 dine free (up to two complimentary child meals per full-price adult meal).
-- epcot's rose and crown was among the many restaurants changing up the menu in walt disney world this fall.
for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items, along  with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- pepper market at coronado springs resort testing breakfast and  lunch buffet, december 4, 2011 - january 4, 2012.
children under 12 are $22 per person, excluding tax and gratuity.
look forariel and captain jack sparrow (a pirate skull and crossbones)!
further applause is deserved for winning the 2012 vibe vista award for "best wine program" in the  hotel/cruise line segment.
-- oscar's: on christmas eve and christmas day, oscar's will feature  a holiday family dinner buffet from 6-10pm.
please take a moment to review ourprivacy policy and terms of use.
cookies & cream as well  as chocolate mint have recently been spotted on the shelves.
call 407-939-5667 to reserve space for this special event.
during the  renovation, the restaurant will remain open.
enjoy dinner with santa at harvest bistro, december 22, 23 and 24.
be sure to make reservations through wdw-dine if you'll be spending turkey day in disney world.
choose from sweet and spicy chicken, nutella with fresh fruit, and prosciutto with tomatoes and swiss.
red velvet  pancakes with cream cheese topping, choice of bacon or sausage $9.99.
the new katsura grill, which sits on the site of the former yakitori house in epcot's japan pavilion, is set to open on december 7.
bakery that stitch has taken over (lilo's there, too) -- 14 feet tall and 10  feet wide.
your credit card will be taken over the phone once  your reservation is confirmed.
cost for the four-course menu is $49 for ages 10 and up; $29 for ages 3-9, which includes tax, gratuity and a $5 contribution to the disney worldwide conservation fund.
the diamond horseshoe in the magic kingdom's frontierland will be open this week as both a counter service and table service restaurant as follows: for counter service lunch from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. on november 20-23, 25-26; for table service dinner from 5 to 9 p.m. on november 20-23; t able service all day on november 24.
other key points of the disney dining plan that have been better defined  include: gratuities are not included unless otherwise indicated.
price: $35 per person, plus tax.
the counter-service restaurants are beastly  kiosk, mr. kamal's, katsura grill, min & bill's dockside diner, diamond  horseshoe, friar's nook, golden oak outpost, tortuga tavern, bongo's cuban cafe  sandwich window and marketplace snacks, trails end takeaway, turtle shack,  paddock grill, art of animation resort's landscapes cafe (phase 1 scheduled to  open summer 2012), cooling hut, lowtide lou's, snack shack, and surf doggies.
as to disney artwork/properties: © disney.
like the french grand marnier tasting and interactive experience will be held on october 8, 15, 22, 29, and november 5.
in mexico enjoy an authentic dining experience with a live mariachi band and indoor viewing (from restaurant) of illuminations.
your credit  card will be taken over the phone once your reservation is confirmed.
the tasting is from 3 to 4 p.m. and can be  booked in advance by calling 7-1347 from contemporary/bay lake tower resort  room phones.
david represents central seafood and will host the dinner with chef frank brough and area manager stephen shepherd.
-- dates for 2012 jiko wine dinners have not been announced  yet.
-- mango gelato cup has been added to the magic kingdom ice cream novelty list.
the event is limited to 46 guests and is exclusive to tables in wonderland members .
the remodeled restaurant and its surroundings are inspired by the famous katsura imperial villa of kyoto, which is recognized as a masterpiece of japanese gardening.
- o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- more dining notes -- a round-up  of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: --
prices begin at $175.
you  can see the menu for the new counter service restauranthere.
santa will make appearances from 6-9pm, in front of harvest bistro.
-- epcot international food & wine festival passport to a world of flavors sneak previewat wonders retreat at epcot: july 16, 2011, 6:30 - 9 p.m.
la luce - guests can dine on a special holiday menu  with features prepared by donna scala.
we're guessing that readers will spot them soon in walt disney  world, too!
gratuity is included.
look for scallops, fish & chips, and calamari & pasta.
this  christmas feast includes traditional holiday entrees.
you will be notified on a “first-come, first-served” basis.
place orders at the podium to the left of the restaurant's main entrance.
top your salted baked potato with melted cheese, fresh bacon, and a variety of other toppings.
-- sleepy hollow in magic kingdom is welcoming menu changes as well.
changes include an updated facade, new paint, and new signage.
for a hearty choice, try the breakfast skillet with eggs, pequillo peppers, nueske's bacon, onions, greek cheese, and sweet potato hash topped with arugula for $13.99.
-- hoop dee doo the 9:30 pm show of the hoop-dee-doo at has been cancelled for friday, august 12, 2011.
the form has room for your name, email address or  mailing address, and the recipe that you are requesting.
there will be food & wine pairings on mondays and tuesdays during the festival.
http://land.allears.net/blogs/dnews/2011/04/save_25_percent_with_voucher_w.html via napoli in the italy pavilion at epcot is selling pizza by the slice (full pizzas are not available) now through may 28.
meal and snack entitlements are linked to each person on the key  to the world (kttw) card.
this exclusive limited-quantity package is available for $2,012 (a  $3500 value).
as of that date, these restaurants will require a credit card number to guarantee reservations and will charge $10 per person if cancellations aren't made at least one day in advance.
- o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- more dining notes -- a weekly round-up of disney  dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: cinderella's royal table has added a breakfast bread  pudding to the menu!
-- sleepy hollow in magic kingdom is welcoming menu  changes as well.
-- downtown disney's irish pub, raglan road, has added some new menu items for guests with gluten-free diets.
joining this year's line-up is a new creation in the lobby of the boardwalk resort.
option two: "let's go  all the way - the vip experience."
you still have some time to make those free dining reservations for 2012.
holiday dinner buffet is $42 person, excluding tax and gratuity.
--  to accommodate holiday crowds, thediamond horseshoe saloon is  serving a counter-service lunch december 17 - 31st from 11 a.m.  â€“ 3 p.m. -- downtown disney's earl of  sandwich is boasting improved ice cream brownie sandwiches for dessert.
call 407-wdw-dine for reservations, or after september 14 book online at www.disneyworld.disney.go.com/reservations/dining.
seeing how some of their favorite iconic foods like disney's polynesian resort tonga toast and main st. confectionery's mickey-inspired candy apples are made -- an interview with the chef de cuisine of the flying fish cafe about the restaurant and one of its most popular signature dishes -- a look at how aulani, a disney resort & spa inspired the all-new hawaiian kiosk at the epcot international food & wine festival and tips for hosting an authentic luau at home
a seasonal vegetable curry is also new on  the menu.
the chocolate peppermint version is decorated with candy cane sprinkles and offers a treat inside -- chocolate syrup!
-- orlando's house of  blues will be introducing the new crossroads at house of blues menu by  celebritychef aaron sanchez in december 2011.
the event  is limited to 46 guests and is exclusive to tables in wonderland members .
the shops are: soup-salad-sandwich, worlds flavors shop, pizza shop, burger shop, and the grab n go market shop.
don't forget that guests from the united kingdom can book free dining through november 2012.
many surprises are in store for you, including a feast fit for a sultan!
“from  burgers to pasta, salads, ethnic flavors, omelets, even parfaits and gelatos,  everything is made fresh as you order.”
christmas at waldorf astoria orlando -- peacock alley: it's a  chocolate-covered holiday season at waldorf astoria orlando, which will feature  bar du chocolat, an exotic display of chocolate treats from around the world,  every friday and saturday evening, november 25 through december 31.
for guests looking to bring in 2012 in style.
dinner $ 49.99 / $ 15.99 -- san angel inn: lunch $ 38.99 / $ 12.99; dinner $ 49.99 / $ 15.99 -- teppan edo: lunch $ 51.99 / $ 13.99; dinner $ 64.99 / $ 17.99 -- tokyo dining: lunch $ 51.99 / $ 13.99; dinner $ 64.99 / $ 17.99 -- tutto italia: lunch $ 51.99 / $ 13.99; dinner $ 64.99 / $ 17.99 --
price includes tax, gratuity and a $5 contribution to the disney worldwide conservation fund.
the second annual food and wine classic at the walt disney world swan and dolphin will be october 7 and 8, 2011.
disney cast members will be inside the creation decorating gingerbread houses.
dining room refurbishments are underway at wolfgang puck express in  orlando's downtown disney, with a mid-february completion date.
-- la luce by donna scala: enjoy family recipes at la luce, featuring  recipes that have been handed down from generation to generation.
cocktail reception at 6:45 p.m., reserved viewing of disney's main street electrical parade at 7:15 p.m.
a four-course menu is offered.
(all subject to change)
chef hunnel was also a 2011 semi-finalist in the annual list of top chefs in the country by the james beard foundation.
call 407-938-7133 for reservations.
the name of the  restaurant in which you are making the request is already indicated on the  paper.
in the magic kingdom, the golden oak outpost has undergone a menu change.
the contempo cafe at the contemporary resort is offering seasonal cupcakes: chocolate peppermint and spiced apple!
traditionally  served warm, this drink has hints of cinnamon, vanilla, and citrus.
the dunes pool outside of the beach club villas is now offering poolside dining (room service).
a seasonal vegetable curry is also new on the menu.
print out the vouchers you'll find on disney's official site and present them at the time of purchase.
dress: casual evening attire.
in the magic kingdom, the golden oak outpost has  undergone a menu change.
guest speaker will be mike ehrbar, the training and development manager for the moet hennessy brand.
you will be notified on a  first-come, first-served basis.
peacock alley is  transformed into a chocolate boudoir, offering an evening of self indulgence.
the cafe will have  several food stations offering menu items like mongolian beef and smoothies!
special dining events and packages such as fantasmic!
enjoy our  special ala carte holiday features from donna scala.
allears® merchandise | press room | contact us subscribe to allears.
a live demo by master chef kevin dundon will feature traditional irish cuisine in the grand room.
-- dates for 2012 jiko wine dinners have not been announced yet.
this is only for guests staying at the contemporary or bay lake  tower resort.
effective march 1, 2011, dinner at le cellier steakhouse will be elevated to a signature dining experience, offering an exciting new menu that will change seasonally and an expanded wine list.
there's also a life-size gingerbread house at the american  adventure pavilion selling goodies again this year.
menu includes: --hearty vegetable soup --tossed garden salad with dressing --assorted dinner rolls
disney cast members will be inside the creation decorating  gingerbread houses.
there's both a white (pinot grigio) and a red (chianti).
call the bakery directly (407-938-9044) at least one week in advance to place the order.
restaurants that have closed archives 2010 restaurant and dining news 2009 restaurant and dining news 2008 restaurant and dining news 2007 restaurant and dining news disney vacation club members are now eligible to purchase thetables in wonderland dining discount card for use at many walt disney world restaurants.
children under 12 dine free (up to two complimentary child  meals per full-price adult meal).
you will be notified on a "first-come, first-served" basis.
the standard bull &  bear ala carte menu will be available.
-- orlando's house of blues will be introducing the new crossroads at house of blues menu by celebritychef aaron sanchez in december 2011.
-- oscar's: on christmas eve and christmas day, oscar's will feature a holiday family dinner buffet from 6-10pm.
victoria & albert's is the only restaurant in orlando and one of only three in florida to be honored with the highest accolade a restaurant can achieve.
the clip-on glow lights that shine on kid souvenir  drinks will debut new characters this holiday season.
the package includes a balloon featuring six disney princesses as the centerpiece on your table; a tiara adorned with crystals, officially crowning her princess for the day; a special 6-inch round cake, available in chocolate or vanilla, prepared by cinderella's royal chefs, personalized with one of her favorite disney princesses (ariel, aurora, belle, cinderella, or tiana) on top.
the wine growing and harvest season in south africa takes place january through march.
don't forget your camera and christmas list!
whispering canyon cafe at wilderness lodge will begin serving dinner one hour earlier at 4 p.m. -- garden grill at epcot will extend dinner one hour later until 9 p.m. -- chef mickey's at the contemporary resort will extend breakfast until 12:30 p.m. and will start serving dinner one hour earlier at 4 p.m. -- mickey's backyard bbq at fort wilderness resort & campground will be open for dinner on tuesday nights, september 20 and 27.
with the launch of this new character lunch, the restaurant will no longer offer reserved seating for performances of finding nemo - the musical.
this is only for guests staying at the contemporary or bay lake tower resort.
turkey gravy --cranberry sauce --pumpkin pie --ice dream novelties --itzakadoozies --iced tea, lemonade, coffee, beer and wine scheduled to appear: mickey, minnie, goofy, donald, pluto, pocahontas, meeko, country bears, chip & dale, a live country band and trevor the trick roper.
the cafe will have several food stations offering menu items like mongolian beef and smoothies!
chef scott hunnel has drawn national and international applause for his preparation and delivery of american regional cuisine with classical influences at the elegant, 50-seat restaurant.
(there will still be a service  charge for dinner.)
expect the restaurant to be closed from january 8 â april 1, 2012.
-- downtown disney's irish pub, raglan road, has added  some new menu items for guests with gluten-free diets.
lunch will remain one table-service meal entitlement per person.
book a walt disney world® magic your way package, with accommodations and theme park tickets, and you will get a select dining bonus - free*!
tutto italia ristorante in epcot's italy pavilion will be undergoing refurbishment in 2012.
the beer tasting features orlando  brewing company organic beers.
the new landscapes cafe food court will be opening in summer 2012 at art of animation resort, disney world's newest family suites value resort.
wine pairing available, but not included in the prix-fixe price.
option one: "a trip to the past, present, and future" bull & bear - 6 p.m. to close.
for reservations : e-mailwdw.tables.in.wonderland@disney.com with the following information: your interest to book, your name, daytime phone number, home address, and the number of people in your party.
the menu will include five courses with wine pairings.
later this year, the italy pavilion will also introduce thegusto wine bar.
-- more dining notes -- a round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: changes to the 2012 disney dining plan include: -- the standard disney dining plan now includes a resort refillable mug for each person in your party.
for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items, along with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- tables in wonderland is hosting two special dining events for its members during the month of december: -- the wave... of american flavor's discovery dinner at disney's contemporary resort, thursday, december 15, 2011.
it will remain open to guests while under construction.
(there will still be a service charge for dinner.)
in addition, the breakfast potatoes are now a potato hash.
this season's episodes feature in-depth interviews with head chefs and event planners from disney parks, sharing their secrets.
-- tables in wonderland holiday party -- saturday,  december 17, 2011 in the norway pavilion lounge in epcot.
the event is limited to 60 guests.
new year's eve at waldorf astoria  orlando -- reservations: 407-597-5409.
the standard bull & bear ala carte menu will be available.
6:30 p.m. reception;  7:00 p.m. dinner.
the contempo cafe at the contemporary resort is  offering seasonal cupcakes: chocolate peppermint and spiced apple!
the wave... of american flavors presents ben mclean iii, vice  president of uncle matt's organic citrus, a florida-based, family-owned company  offering premium quality organic citrus juices and organic produce.
guests may also make and cancel reservations online: disneyworld.com/dining.
via napoli ristorante e pizzeria: lunch $ 38.99 / $ 12.99; dinner $ 49.99 / $ 15.99 the basic and deluxe disney dining plans can be used for the candlelight processional packages, requiring two table service credits.
for more details on other disney dining-related items, along with photos,  visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- -- cinderella's royal table is now  offering the "her royal highness" package to help  celebrate birthdays for little princesses at the restaurant.
top your salted baked potato with melted cheese, fresh bacon, and a  variety of other toppings.
the saturday evening tasting events, party for the senses, will have a new time 7:30-10 p.m., and will be october 8, 15, 22, november 5 and 12.
- o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- -- more dining notes -- a weekly round-up of disney  dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: -- japan's new outdoor sake bar is serving specialty  drinks, bottled beer, and draft beer to quench your thirst while strolling in  world showcase.
the reopening date for the yakitori house in epcot's  japan pavilion has been pushed back to december 16, 2011.
on sunday may 8, 2011, join your fellow tables in wonderland members for a cocktail hour and then reserved seating for the flower power concert of davy jones, best known as the front man for the 1960's sensation, "the monkees".
menu  items will include strawberry tea poached beef short rib with sweet shiraz  puree and truffle oil; strawberry champagne with wild caught shrimp and mint  syrup; myakka heirloom tomatoes, fresh mozzarella, aged balsamic strawberries  and odessa;
http://land.allears.net/blogs/dnews/2012/01/landscape_of_flavors_at_disney.html -- tables in wonderland has announced their  february event called "design and display warehouse" which will be  held on february 25th.
the event is limited to 100 guests.
-- be our guest restaurant in walt disney world's magic kingdom will open in late 2012.
tutto italia in the italy pavilion in epcot's world  showcase is currently closed for a refurbishment.
you can also check out the "meet the chefs" page for in-depth information about the hosts, chefs and other guests from the series.
-- disney's contemporary resort is offering a free beer tasting on saturdays at the wave lounge.
the disney dining plan will feature a number of changes  effective january 1, 2012: several additional "operating participant restaurants"
for reservations, e-mail wdw.tables.in.wonderland@disney.com with the following information: your interest to book, your name, daytime phone number, home address, and the number of people in your party.
celebrating santa sweets tomatoes, the country's only grower and packer of santa sweets™ grape tomatoes, and the only grower of uglyripe™ tomatoes.
the evening will celebrate central florida's strawberry season and will  feature produce by lott farms, located just west of plant city, florida.
on your next visit to a disney park, keep an eye out for interesting  flavors ofpre-packaged popcorn.
the name of the restaurant in which you are making the request is already indicated on the paper.
$149 per person, 5-course  prix-fixe menu; $59 for children under 12 years of age.
there is a reception at 6 p.m., followed by dinner at 6:30 p.m.
according to reports from walt disney world, the plaza ice cream  parlor is officially closed for refurbishment through march 27 and  will not be serving during that time.
this buffet restaurant, which hosts a character breakfast, will be closed from july 9 - august 4, 2012.
a live demo by master  chef kevin dundon will feature traditional irish cuisine in the grand room.
this buffet restaurant, which hosts a  character breakfast, will be closed from july 9 - august 4, 2012.
price: $99 per person, plus tax.
-- walt disney world swan and dolphin food & wine classic will be held next year on october 12 - 13, 2012.
for an additional charge, you can receive a reserved private table, entrance into world showplace 15 minutes before general admission, specialty beverage, a unique dessert offering.
tables in wonderland is presenting a special discovery dinner at the wave... of american flavors, at the contemporary resort, thursday, january 20, 2011.
for official disney information, visithttp://www.disneyworld.com
for reservations : e-mailwdw.tables.in.wonderland@disney.com with the following information: your interest to book, your name,  daytime phone number, home address, and the number of people in your party.
of american flavors discovery dinner:on thursday, may 19, 2011, the wave at the contemporary resort will host a dinner featuring the produce of long & scott farms.
he has also been recognized annually since 2007 by the foundation for his contemporary approach in the kitchen and straightforward cooking philosophy.
book the "do not disturb" package for extra perks!
the party starts at 8 p.m. and runs through illuminations until 9:30 p.m.
in addition to the seasonal chocolate peppermint and spiced apple cupcakes at contempo cafe, theboardwalk bakery is offering a peppermint cupcake as well.
copyright © r.y.i. enterprises, llc, all rights reserved, 1999 - 2012.
[priced per piece] -- bull & bear steakhouse: on christmas eve, bull & bear steakhouse opens an hour early (at 5pm), featuring an a la carte menu.
for more details on other disney dining-related items, along with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- more dining notes -- a weekly round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: --
flying fish cafe is now offering duos of popular menu items; try the  crab cake and caesar salad duo and the potato-wrapped red snapper and  char-crusted strip steak duo!
this special feast will include  classic holiday fare, new waldorf astoria traditions, and a special dessert  finale.
the label is sogno d'italia,or "dream of italy," made by placido in tuscany and imported by banfi vintners.
for more details on other disney dining-related  items, along with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- more dining notes -- a weekly round-up of disney  dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: --
book or cancel dining reservations at, or direct any questions to any table-service restaurant podium, walt disney world resort hotel front desk, concierge or guest relations, or call 407-wdw-dine.
there is now a special phone line that only handles dining cancellations: 407-wdw-cncl.
for more information about this package, call 407-824-4477 or email wdw.crt.special.events@disney.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- -- more dining notes -- a weekly round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: --
package prices do not include tax and gratuity or park admission.
these luncheons are held wednesdays from 11:30 a.m. to 1:15 p.m. at the kidani village restaurant.
the flying fish cafe is hosting another in its winery series events on february 2, 2012.
additional special events will include italian and french pairings and lunches, as well as mexican tequila events.
enjoy a close-up view to this stage spectacular that reveals some of the moviemaking magic responsible for indy's triumphs over deadly traps, bad-guy battles and epic-scale obstacles.
and to celebrate  the new year, adults will receive one complimentary glass of champagne.
new dishes are being added to the remy menu on the disney dream.
for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items, along  with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- tables in wonderland is hosting two special  dining events for its members during the month of december: -- the wave... of american flavor's discovery dinner at  disney's contemporary resort, thursday, december 15, 2011.
prices: $95 per person (and $50 for  children under 12), or $125 with wine pairings.
(it's also for sale in the weinkeller shop in the  germany pavilion, both by the glass and the bottle.
the traditional gingerbread and chocolate gazebo is back, but now you can also see stitch's bakery store front, a miniature replica of the boardwalk bakery that stitch has taken over (lilo's there, too) -- 14 feet tall and 10 feet wide.
-- to kick off their st. patrick's day festival, the folks at raglan road will host a four-course luncheon.
-- full details for the 16th annual epcot international food and wine festival, "passport to a world of flavors," can now be found on the official walt disney world website: http://disneyworld.disney.go.com/parks/epcot/special-events/epcot-international-food-and-wine-festival/ -- lots of food and wine festival news was released at thetables in wonderland festival preview held over the weekend.
to make reservations, call the safari line for wanyama safari at (407) 938-4755, which is the animal kingdom lodge itinerary planning office.
earl of sandwich has introduced a french dip sandwich to the  menu for a limited time!
-- disney was a winner at cheers magazine's 2012 "cheers  beverage excellence awards" for "best chain multi-concept  beverage program."
jiko's manager indicated that wine dinner announcements should  take place in late march with the fabulous dinners beginning in april or may. --
don't forget your  camera and christmas list!
a second tables in wonderland february event has been  announced.
-- bull & bear: down memory lane â€“ a bull & bear  new year's celebration.
check out specialty meals at la hacienda de san angel, bistro de  paris, biergarten, chef mickey's (new year's day brunch), yachtsman steakhouse,  victoria & albert's, citricos, and narcoossee's.
the bakery, located in the downtown disney marketplace is open  9:30 a.m. until 11 p.m. daily.
you will be notified on a “first-come,  first-served” basis.
-- taste, shake and indulge
-- wolfgang puck cafe, portobello, raglan road, and fulton's crab  house in downtown disney have announced prix fixe thanksgiving menus  available next week.
http://land.allears.net/blogs/dnews/2012/01/landscape_of_flavors_at_disney.html -- tables in wonderland has announced their february event called "design and display warehouse" which will be held on february 25th.
professional stunt performers are also joined by audience volunteers, who act as extras in the show.
the quick service disney dining plan has reduced the snack credits to only one per person per day.
this does not affect pricing in any way.
as for desserts, the lemon pie is gone, but a new irish whiskey-caramel creme brulee has been added.
celebrate the season with the perfect blend of sweet and spice!
dining experience" at disney's hollywood studios lets you enjoy an affordable picnic plus reserved seating for fantasmic!, the park's nightly extravaganza that takes guests inside the dreams of mickey mouse, into a world where his magic creates dancing waters, shooting comets, animated fountains, swirling stars, balls of fire and other amazing wonders.
call 407-284-0202 for reservations.
these events are  exclusively for tables in wonderland members.
flying fish cafe is now offering duos of popular menu items; try the crab cake and caesar salad duo and the potato-wrapped red snapper and char-crusted strip steak duo!
special packages including guestroom accommodations will be available, as well as wristbands allowing you access to all the food and beverage offerings: http://swandolphinfoodandwineclassic.com/ tables in wonderland is hosting two special dinners at walt disney world this monthexclusive to tables in wonderland members: -- cairo dinner show at indiana jones epic stunt spectacular -- this buffet dinner show will be on saturday, april 30, 2011 from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. at disney's hollywood studios.
for reservations, e-mailwdw.tables.in.wonderland@disney.com with the following information: your interest to book, your name, daytime phone number, home address, and the number of people in your party.
read more about us or advertise with us.
lightly smoked duck breast, strawberry gastrique, risotto with braised rhubarb and celery; and a trio of fresh from florida strawberry flavors featuring: strawberry-champagne sorbet, no sugar added strawberry panna cotta, and brown sugar glazed pound cake with strawberry tuile.
this may cause problems for guests who follow a vegan diet and may affect other special diets.
for reservations to either event, e-mail wdw.tables.in.wonderland@disney.com with the following information: your interest to book, your name, daytime phone number, home address, and the number of people in your party.
experiences are available at la hacienda de san angel and bistro de paris for  new years eve.
they include bistro de paris, fulton's crab  house, wolfgang puck dining room, rainforest café, t-rex café,  bongos cuban café, crossroads at house of blues, portobello and paradiso  37 for table service restaurants.
the dinner will feature the organic citrus juices of matt mclean's family orchards.
the french toast baklava is super-sweet and includes grilled fig and anise country bread with honey, walnuts, and cinnamon along with bacon or chicken sausage for $11.99.
this dining experience includes a choice of entrees, including a holiday goose carved tableside, along with special selections created by chef david sears.
inspired by the blockbuster film "raiders of the lost ark," this show recreates edge-of-your-seat scenes with more than a dozen stunt performers demonstrating techniques hollywood uses to fool moviegoers into thinking a favorite celebrity has taken a punch, fall or bullet.
it's located near  les chefs de france.
it is scheduled to reopen in time for dinner thursday evening, january 20.
as a result, the nearby maya grill will no longer be open for breakfast.
the dish includes mascarpone cheese and berries.
the new "a taste of hollywood to go â
cost will be $225/person.
-- specialty bakery babycakesnyc is now offering walt disney world resort guests the chance to order two-layer, 6" cakes (serves 8-10 people) to go along with their dining reservations.
many gingerbread displays are now up in the deluxe walt disney world resorts, like the beach club, grand floridian, and contemporary.
there is still plenty of availability for the noon and 2 p.m. meals and limited availability for the 4 and 6 p.m. meals.
on christmas day, enjoy christmas dinner buffet, 5 - 10 pm.
-- epcot will stay open until 10 p.m. on select friday and saturday evenings during the festival.
its reopening has been postponed until april 28, 2012.
-- free dining is back!
click here for more info.
orlando's exclusive new year's eve experience at waldorf astoria, a journey that unfolds throughout five courses prepared by chef david sears.
the new "a taste of hollywood to go â€“ a  fantasmic!
-- storybook treats in the magic kingdom's fantasyland introduced (officially) the hot fudge cookie sundae.
-- dine with animal specialists: sanaa at animal kingdom lodge's kidani village hosts an "untamed" lunch every wednesday from 11:30 a.m. to 1:15 p.m.
for more details on other disney dining-related items, along with photos,  visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- tables in wonderland is hosting another "discovery dinner" at the wave... of american flavors at disney's contemporary resort on thursday, january 19, 2012 at 6:30  p.m.
also in the magic kingdom, the lunching pad will be closed for refurbishment august 29 through september 16.
all hot items except the hot dog were removed from the offerings.
net, allears® newsletter and any other properties owned by ryi enterprises, llc are not affiliated with, authorized or endorsed by, or in any way officially connected with, the walt disney company, disney enterprises, inc., or any of their affiliates.
a new, official food & beverage recipe request form was recently spotted in disneyland and readers report that it's being used in  walt disney world as well.
the diamond horseshoe in the magic kingdom's  frontierland will be open this week as both a counter service and table service  restaurant as follows: for counter service lunch from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. on  november 20-23, 25-26; for table service dinner from 5 to 9 p.m. on november  20-23; t able service all day on november 24.
when you place  your order, be sure to have your dining reservation confirmation number, date,  and time handy.
many gingerbread displays are now up in the deluxe walt  disney world resorts, like the beach club, grand floridian, and contemporary.
this christmas feast includes traditional holiday entrees.
children under  12 eat free (up to two complimentary child meals per full-price adult meal).
all hot items except the hot dog were removed from the  offerings.
children under 12 eat free (up to two complimentary child meals per full-price adult meal).
the disney resort gingerbread displays have a brand new component this year.
a new, official food & beverage recipe request form was recently spotted in disneyland and readers report that it's being used in walt disney world as well.
option two: "let's go all the way - the vip experience."
the followingrestaurants have extended dining hours september 18 through 27 to help accommodate the expected crowds: -- 'ohana at the polynesian resort will extend breakfast one hour until noon.
you might want to try more than one of the picnic goodies, but your fantasmic!
prices: $95 per person (and $50 for children under 12), or $125 with wine pairings.
at the 3d disney's dessert discovery events they will introduce new "sweet seats", akin to the wine view lounge for the party for the senses.
also, there's a red and green version of the soft serve swirl cone available.
the seasonal favorite,santa's little helper, has returned as a holiday signature beverage at the yacht club's crew's cup lounge.
cost: $95 per person, plus tax.
-- disney resort refillable mugs now cost $14.49,  plus tax.
- o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- more dining notes -- a round-up of  disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: --
the wine growing and harvest season in south africa takes place january  through march.
-- bull & bear: down memory lane â a bull & bear new year's celebration.
for example, you can use all of  your snack entitlements on your first day, but you will not have any snack  entitlements to use during the remainder of your stay.
these shirts can be purchased at a wdw gift shop or via wdw merchandise mail order at 877-560-6477.
be sure to ask about ingredients before you dig into that bread basket.
in addition to the seasonal chocolate  peppermint and spiced apple cupcakes at contempo cafe, theboardwalk  bakery is offering a peppermint cupcake as well.
guests are encouraged to wear either blue jeans or black tie -- or both.
the reopening date for the yakitori house in epcot's japan pavilion has been pushed back to december 16, 2011.
to make reservations call 407-wdw-fest (939-3378).
new restaurants on the plan include: bistro de paris, fulton's crab house, wolfgang puck dining room (upstairs), rainforest cafe (both locations), t-rex cafe, bongos cuban cafe, crossroads at house of blues, portobello, paradiso 37, beastly kiosk, mr. kamal's, katsura grill, min & bill's dockside diner, diamond horseshoe, friar's nook, golden oak outpost, tortuga tavern, bongo's cuban cafe sandwich window, marketplace snacks, trails end takeaway, turtle shack, paddock grill, landscapes cafe (opening summer 2012), cooling hut, lowtide lou's, snack shack, and surf doggies.
-- zeta bar will be transformed into the "bubble lounge,"  featuring live entertainment from 8 pm until midnight, and a selection of  champagnes by the glass and bottle.
amazing wines from the southern hemisphere will be  paired with fresh cuisine.
the dunes pool outside of  the beach club villas is now offering poolside dining (room service).
prices $24.99 for adults.
be the first to sample the food and hear speakers talk about the new and exciting things at the festival this year.
for reservations, e-mail wdw.tables.in.wonderland@disney.com with the following information:  your interest to book, your name, daytime phone number, home address, and the  number of people in your party.
here's what you can order: --
-- williams sonoma carrying disney themed baking accessories -check out your local williams sonoma store for baking accessories themed to snow white, star wars, and marvel characters!
--tusker house in disney's animal kingdom will begin serving a character lunch as of december 4, 2011.
winemaker robin back, whose family owns fairview estate and spice route vineyards in south africa, will also be on hand.
the traditional gingerbread and chocolate gazebo is back, but now you  can also see stitch's bakery store front, a miniature replica of the boardwalk
stop over at the park candy stores to pick up holiday candy corn, rice krispie treats, cookies, sprinkles, chocolate boxes, and more.
a second tables in wonderland february event has been announced.
for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items, along  with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com --the pizza window at the boardwalk is now  accepting the disney dining plan: -- one quick service coupon includes: 1  slice of pizza;1 soft drink; 1 dessert -- two quick service coupons  include: 1 whole pizza; 2 soft drinks; 2 desserts http://allears.net/pl/packages11a.htm more dining notes -- a round-up of disney  dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: --
also available are upgraded reserved seating and table-top dining, as well as seat-side service and a personal call button that discreetly alerts a server.
http://allears.net/menu/menu_bbq.htm --master chef kevin dundon of downtown disney's raglan road irish pub & restaurantwill debut a special thanksgiving meal this year for just $26.95 per person.
-- disney is displaying the first of the2011 holiday merchandise now, including food-related items.
a cd of the event is included.
experience includes the following: a deluxe suite at waldorf astoria orlando for two nights, with a special themed welcome amenity; five-course pre-fixe new year's eve dinner for two at bull & bear featuring a trip to the past, present and future; an exclusive after-dinner new year's eve party at sir harry's lounge, including live entertainment and complimentary champagne; breakfast for two at oscar's (two mornings); golf for two at waldorf astoria golf club.
-- disney resort refillable mugs now cost $14.49, plus tax.
the shops are: soup-salad-sandwich, worlds flavors  shop, pizza shop, burger shop, and the grab n go market shop.
seating  is limited to just 32 guests.
tsr and qsr meals during lunch and dinner include a dessert.
cookies & cream as well as chocolate mint have recently been spotted on the shelves.
the event is exclusively for tables in wonderland members.
we respect your right to privacy.
choose from sweet and spicy chicken, nutella with fresh fruit, and prosciutto  with tomatoes and swiss.
for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items, along with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com more dining notes -- a round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: -- new world showcase shirts in epcot show off the specialty foods and beverages of each nation.
and at this event everyone gets to be on the stage!
amazing wines from the southern hemisphere will be paired with fresh cuisine.
enjoy a four-course  holiday meal, served on christmas day from 6-10pm.
in addition, mickey's backyard bbq will be offered on additional days: april 19, 22, 26 and 29 reminder:
tables in wonderland has announced two special events, exclusive to its members, for july: -- sunday brunch at narcoossee'sat the grand floridian resort & spa: july 10, 2011, noon - 2 p.m.
-- harvest bistro - enjoy a  special dinner buffet from 5-10pm, where kids dine for free!
the clip-on glow lights that shine on kid souvenir drinks will debut new characters this holiday season.
later this year, the italy pavilion will also  introduce thegusto wine bar.
check out this new disney food trend: http://www.disneyfoodblog.com/2011/11/29/disney-food-trend-savory-beignets/ - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- hilton orlando bonnet creek and waldorf astoria orlando are hosting a number of special holiday experiences: christmas at hilton orlando bonnet creek -- reservations recommended: 407-597-5500.
during the festival, the wine can be purchased by the glass ($6) at enoteca castello, or by the bottle ($16.95) at the wine shop in the festival welcome center.
the quick service  disney dining plan has reduced the snack credits to only one per person per day.
you might want to try more than one of the  picnic goodies, but your fantasmic!
at 7:15 p.m. relocate to america gardens theater for reserved seats for the at 7:45 p.m. davy jones show at the flower power concert series.
-- tables in wonderland holiday party -- saturday, december 17, 2011 in the norway pavilion lounge in epcot.
we've received feedback that people have been receiving recipes a  few days after turning in these cards (which you can get from your server).
fort wilderness resort and campground is doing their annual thanksgiving at the fort lunch/dinner this year on thursday, november 24, 2011.
-- plaza ice cream parlor (magic kingdom) is under refurb and may be closed january 4 - march 27 for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items, along with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- -- new year's eve specialty dinners in epcot - special dining experiences are available at la hacienda de san angel and bistro de paris for new years eve.
smaller portions of each so you can try all of  the favorites!
new restaurants on the plan  include: bistro de paris, fulton's crab house, wolfgang puck dining room  (upstairs), rainforest cafe (both locations), t-rex cafe, bongos cuban cafe,  crossroads at house of blues, portobello, paradiso 37, beastly kiosk, mr.  kamal's, katsura grill, min & bill's dockside diner, diamond horseshoe,  friar's nook, golden oak outpost, tortuga tavern, bongo's cuban cafe sandwich  window, marketplace snacks, trails end
if you would like to order an  appetizer or salad, the price of item ordered will be added to the bill.
the dinner features the organic products of "uncle matt" matt mclean.
donald's dining safari lunch at tusker house restaurant will be offered from 11 a.m. to 2:45 p.m. daily and will vary in cost by season from $25.99 to $29.99 for adults and $14.99 to $16.99 for children ages 3 to 9.
(it's also for sale in the weinkeller shop in the germany pavilion, both by the glass and the bottle.
--the enoteca castello wine shop in epcot's italy pavilion will spotlight two new wines made exclusively for disney parks during the upcoming epcot international food and wine festival.
certain locations that require a pre-paid reservation will continue with this policy, and will retain the full, pre-paid amount if reservations are not cancelled one day in advance.
new year's eve at waldorf astoria orlando -- reservations: 407-597-5409.
choose between cinnamon-glazed almonds or pecans while  touring world showcase.
this exclusive limited-quantity package is available for $2,012 (a $3500 value).
you  will be notified on a "first-come, first-served" basis.
to save money -- and alleviate wait times during one of the busiest seasons -- you must dine before 11:30 a.m. or between 3 p.m. and 4:30 p.m.
in its place, the nearby flying fish cafe will serve breakfast on october 30, 2011 only.
the menu has  remained the same (with prices going up slightly on several items).
(the dining  plan snack symbol is posted on menu boards and next to many of the eligible  products in merchandise shops.)
by the glass, it's  selling for around $6.
the following restaurants have extended their seating times from april 16 to may 1 to accommodate more diners during the upcoming busy holiday season: the diamond horseshoe in the magic kingdom's frontierland is also now available to book for an all-you-can-eat dinner april 17-24, from 5 to 9 p.m.
amc downtown disney 24 located in downtown disney at walt disney world will debut itsamc dine-in theatres on may 16.
while closed japanese quick service cuisine options will be available at the temporary food & wine kiosk on the promenade: california sushi rolls, spicy tuna rolls, teriyaki chicken, teriyaki beef, shogun teriyaki combo, beverages and desserts.
a summer refurbishment has been announced for the cape may cafe at the beach club resort.
--disney.com has launched season two of the "taste of disney" web series, which offers the opportunity to explore the culinary experiences found at disney parks and bring the magic into your home.
sharing the magic | allears® amazon store |
(note: 2011 booking dates ended at the original deadline and are no longer available to book.)
it's located near les chefs de france.
this new menu will keep some old favorites (like jambalaya), put a new spin on others (like the beloved cornbread), and add some entirely new dishes to the mix.
the  chocolate peppermint version is decorated with candy cane sprinkles and offers  a treat inside -- chocolate syrup!
these events are exclusively for tables in wonderland members.
chocolat is an evening opportunity to experience nearly 30 ala carte chocolate  treats from waldorf astoria's dynamic display of decadence.
the new landscapes cafe food court will be opening in summer 2012  at art of animation resort, disney world's newest family suites value resort.
will now  accept the disney dining plan in 2012:rainforest cafe (at both downtown  disney and disney's animal kingdom), t-rex, house of blues restaurant,  bongo's cuban cafe, paradiso 37, fulton's crab house and portobello.
-- la luce by donna scala: enjoy family recipes at la luce, featuring recipes that have been handed down from generation to generation.
when you place your order, be sure to have your dining reservation confirmation number, date, and time handy.
dress code: business casual.
fried chicken with maple-glazed sweet potato and baby spinach salad,  broccoli and cranberry salad and cheesecake, $14.99 -- veggie wrap with avocado spread, tabbouleh, avocado and tomato salad  with citrus vinaigrette and chocolate cake, $14.99 --
-- kona cafe at disney world's polynesian resort is offering avalentine's special for a limited time: red velvet pancakes with cream cheese topping, choice of bacon or sausage $9.99.
a new mexico tequila lunch will be offered at la hacienda for $65/person saturdays and sundays.
cost is $135 per person (including gratuity) plus tax.
animal kingdom lodge is now offering special afternoon events at two of its restaurants: -- south african wine tasting: every wednesday at 3 p.m., jiko in jambo house hosts "a journey through the wine regions of south africa."
among other changes, the appetizer trio is now gone (though you can still get the scotch egg), and a new pork duo dish has been introduced.
http://dvcnews.com/index.php/dvc-program/member-benefits/1854-tables-in-wonderland-now-available-to-dvc-members more dining notes -- a weekly round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: --
christmas at waldorf astoria orlando -- peacock alley: it's a chocolate-covered holiday season at waldorf astoria orlando, which will feature bar du chocolat, an exotic display of chocolate treats from around the world, every friday and saturday evening, november 25 through december 31.
prices $39 for adults.
cost is $110 per person which includes tax and  gratuity.
the theme for the evening is "the wonders of sustainable seafood."
happy hour from 6 to 7 p.m. at american adventure parlor with hors d 'oeuvres, beer, wine, and specialty beverages.
reception at 6:30 p.m., dinner at 7 p.m.
enjoy a four-course holiday meal, served on christmas day from 6-10pm.
pick up is at min &  bill's dockside diner from 11 a.m. through 1-1/2 hours prior to your selected  show time.
meals and snack entitlements can be used in any order throughout  your resort stay until the total allotment of entitlements is used up or until  midnight on the reservation check-out date.
check out specialty meals at la hacienda de san angel, bistro de paris, biergarten, chef mickey's (new year's day brunch), yachtsman steakhouse, victoria & albert's, citricos, and narcoossee's.
--planet hollywood at downtown disney west side has changed its operating hours, and is now open 11 a.m.-midnight daily.
these lights have debuted in disneyland and aboard the disney  cruise ships.
an  automatic 18% gratuity charge will be added to the bill for parties of 6 or  more.
look for items such as the feed our small world  cookbook, along with feed our small world logo t-shirts for kids, and fun tote  bags for adults in disney stores and other retailers nationwide.
look for items such as the feed our small world cookbook, along with feed our small world logo t-shirts for kids, and fun tote bags for adults in disney stores and other retailers nationwide.
seating is limited to just 32 guests.
“the idea  is that you customize your choice,” says chef ed wronski, director, food  & beverage concept development, walt disney parks and resorts.
-- todd english's bluezoo unveils an interactive bar menu! - head to  bluezoo in the walt disney world dolphin resort to experience a new,  interactive digital bar menu!
earl of sandwich has introduced a french dip sandwich to the menu for a limited time!
in mexico enjoy an authentic dining  experience with a live mariachi band and indoor viewing (from restaurant) of  illuminations.
according to designer thomas scott, the characters will have a fresh look.
new restaurants have been added to the disney  dining plan for 2012.
the event is limited to 40 guests and is exclusive to tables in  wonderland members.
-- williams sonoma carrying disney themed baking accessories -check out your local williams sonoma store for baking accessories  themed to snow white, star wars, and marvel characters!
-- kona cafe at disney world's polynesian resort is  offering avalentine's special for a limited time:
call the  bakery directly (407-938-9044) at least one week in advance to place the order.
we received word this week that disney's hollywood studios has changed the bread rolls served at table-service meals to a  version that contains egg.
--fulton's crab house, portobello and wolfgang puck cafe in downtown disney, all operated by the levy group, will be holding a series of culinary events to coincide with the upcoming epcot international food and wine festival that starts september 29.
the tasting is from 3 to 4 p.m. and can be booked in advance by calling 7-1347 from contemporary/bay lake tower resort room phones.
you cannot use remaining qsr or tsr entitlements to purchase snacks.
a percentage of sales will be allocated directly to feed projects, which supports projects to eliminate hunger and  malnutrition around the world.
a discovery dinner will take place in the wave at the contemporary resort on february 16, 2012.
from april 17-23, you can save 25 percent off dining with the purchase of any entree at select quick-service restaurants at both walt disney world resort and disneyland resort.
experience includes the following: a deluxe suite at waldorf astoria  orlando for two nights, with a special themed welcome amenity; five-course  pre-fixe new year's eve dinner for two at bull & bear featuring a trip to  the past, present and future; an exclusive after-dinner new year's eve party at  sir harry's lounge, including live entertainment and complimentary champagne;  breakfast for two at oscar's (two mornings); golf for two at waldorf astoria  golf club.
packages, new year's eve dinners, and victoria and albert's reservations may have different cancellation requirements.
takeaway, turtle shack, paddock grill,  landscapes cafe (opening summer 2012), cooling hut, lowtide lou's, snack shack,  and surf doggies.
you can not redeem meals or snacks for anyone who is not on the disney  dining plan.
in addition to these, there are a few more holiday-themed vinylmations available, including one that is reminiscent of most of us after thanksgiving dinner.
price: $92 per person, includes tax and gratuity.
learn what new marketplace kiosks will be added this year, as well as new special events.
you can see the menu for the new counter service restauranthere.
we're guessing that readers will spot them soon in walt disney world, too!
the cost is $45 plus tax and gratuity.
for more information or to place a signature dinner reservation, call 407-939-3463 (407-wdw-dine).
in france enjoy a four course meal at 6:30pm or 10pm.
the beer tasting features orlando brewing company organic beers.
to enjoy the meal with wine pairings, reserve now by calling 407-938-0300, 407-wdw-dine or atwww.raglanroad.com .
look forariel and captain jack sparrow (a pirate skull and  crossbones)!
the remodeled  restaurant and its surroundings are inspired by the famous katsura imperial  villa of kyoto, which is recognized as a masterpiece of japanese gardening.
http://land.allears.net/blogs/dnews/2011/11/disneycom_launches_season_two.html more dining notes -- a round-up of disney dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: --
an animal specialist is on hand to answer questions and share fun facts, as they lend insight into the care of the animals that roam the nearby savanna.
highlights include handmade chocolate truffles, exotic chocolate cakes, rich hanukkah gelt, gourmet cocoa, pillows of chocolate mousse and bowls of beautiful bon-bons.
for more details on other disney dining-related items, along with photos,  visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- --
the event is limited to 80 guests.
follow@cavadeltequila on twitter to get a discounted price on a shot of el mayor silver tequila.
disney characters will wear halloween costumes for the evening's special dance party, along with an all-you-can-eat buffet.
-- disney has partnered with charity in an effort to end child hunger by using the "it's a small world" brand.
the  seasonal favorite,santa's little helper, has returned as a  holiday signature beverage at the yacht club's crew's cup lounge.
they include bistro de paris, fulton's crab house, wolfgang puck dining room, rainforest café, t-rex café, bongos cuban café, crossroads at house of blues, portobello and paradiso 37 for table service restaurants.
-- tables in wonderland discounts apply to culinary demos and beverage seminars on monday through thursday only (tiw members must call disney dining to get the discount).
enjoy a front row presentation of the premier nighttime spectacular at epcot, illuminations: reflections of earth, while you sample platters of exquisitely prepared delectable desserts and rich coffees.
to  enjoy the meal with wine pairings, reserve now by calling 407-938-0300,  407-wdw-dine or atwww.raglanroad.com .
the counter-service restaurants are beastly kiosk, mr. kamal's, katsura grill, min & bill's dockside diner, diamond horseshoe, friar's nook, golden oak outpost, tortuga tavern, bongo's cuban cafe sandwich window and marketplace snacks, trails end takeaway, turtle shack, paddock grill, art of animation resort's landscapes cafe (phase 1 scheduled to open summer 2012), cooling hut, lowtide lou's, snack shack, and surf doggies.
children are encouraged to attend the  on-site wa kids 'rock in the new year' party, available through wa kids club.
reservations for special dining events begin august 16 at 7 a.m. by calling 407-wdw-fest.
according to reports from walt disney world, the plaza ice cream parlor is officially closed for refurbishment through march 27 and will not be serving during that time.
see the ball drop on 10 large-screen televisions.
substituting entitlements: you may use tsr entitlements in a qsr location; however, you may not use  qsr entitlements in a tsr.
the package  includes a balloon featuring six disney princesses as the centerpiece on your  table; a tiara adorned with crystals, officially crowning her princess for the  day; a special 6-inch round cake, available in chocolate or vanilla, prepared  by cinderella's royal chefs, personalized with one of her favorite disney  princesses (ariel, aurora, belle, cinderella, or tiana) on top.
cost is $110 per person which includes tax and gratuity.
jiko's manager indicated that wine dinner announcements should take place in late march with the fabulous dinners beginning in april or may. -- a new glazed almond and pecan stand has been installed in epcot's france pavilion for the holiday season.
there's also a life-size gingerbread house at the american adventure pavilion selling goodies again this year.
for more details on other disney dining-related items, along with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- --
it's currently being sold as a  test flavor.
check out this new disney food trend: http://www.disneyfoodblog.com/2011/11/29/disney-food-trend-savory-beignets/ - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- hilton orlando bonnet creek and  waldorf astoria orlando are hosting a number of special holiday  experiences: christmas at hilton orlando bonnet creek -- reservations recommended:  407-597-5500.
-- savory beignets seem to be all the rage in disney  world restaurants!
tutto italia will be hosting new food and beer pairings ($50/person on tuesdays 2-4 p.m.) and dessert and wine pairings ($50/person on thursdays 2-4 p.m.) -- white truffle lunch featuring truffles imported from alba, italy, with five courses paired with batasiolo wines.
at this time, shows will revert to the previous schedule of 5pm, 7:15pm, and 9:30pm on february 12, 2012.
the raglan road irish pub at downtown disney now offers a menu of craft beers, including the "home grown organic beer flight" full of craft beers made locally by the orlando brewing co. -- epcot's la cava del tequila has revamped its tapas menu again.
price: $50 per person, plus tax.
start your morning with cereal from a mickey bowl!
the dates for the other wine dinners are: october 6 (wines by domaine serene); october 13 (wines of spain); october 20 (wines of argentina); november 4 (markham winery).
the event is limited to 40 guests.
fresh from florida spokesperson, david fennesey, presents an array of great seafood from florida's coastal waters.
there is still plenty of availability for the noon  and 2 p.m. meals and limited availability for the 4 and 6 p.m. meals.
the automatic service charge will  be eliminated for buffet breakfast and lunch at pepper market and an  "optional tip" line will be added.
narcoossee's â¢ 'ohana â¢ tusker house restaurant â¢ hollywood brown derby â¢ victoria and albert's (cancellation policy is $25/per person) â¢ yachtsman steakhouse
guests can choose from a signature selection of chocolate treats from the hotel's talented executive pastry chef kurtis baguley, featuring time-honored recipes from around the globe.
further applause is deserved for winning the 2012 vibe vista award for "best wine program" in the hotel/cruise line segment.
it will remain open to guests while  under construction.
magic your way premium and platinum packages can also be used for the candlelight processional package.
you will find out all of the information before it goes live on the website, and before reservations open to begin booking the events.
the "untamed" lunch at sanaa, which allows you to dine with animal specialists, has a new reservation number: 407-938-6922; select option 3 and leave a message.
cost: $92 per person, includes tax and gratuity.
fulton's crab house (407-934-2628): -- culinary demonstration: 1 p.m. october 6 demonstration on how to prepare pan-seared wild alaska king salmon: $11 -- signature dinner: 7 p.m. november 2 with chef ron cope; $150 per person.
a new pulled beef sandwich is featured at tamu tamu refreshments in disney's animal kingdom, and it's getting great reviews!
pick up your meal at your convenience and then you're on your own for an easy picnic lunch or dinner.
cost is $92 per person (includes tax and gratuity).
park fare â¢ akershus royal banquet hall â¢ artist point â¢
for disney dining plan and disney deluxe dining plan guests, this change for dinner will require two table-service meal entitlements per person.
the restaurant's regular menu offerings also will be available on thanksgiving day, november 24.
this event is exclusive to tables in wonderland members.
you will be notified on a first-come, first-served basis.
la luce - guests can dine on a special holiday menu with features prepared by donna scala.
-- tables in wonderland -- presents: the wave . . .
menu includes: --hearty vegetable soup --tossed garden salad with dressing --assorted dinner rolls --cornbread --butter --smoked turkey breast --honey-mustard glazed ham --mashed potatoes --candied
the wine and dine plan is no longer being offered.
while the quick service plan price remains the  same as last year, increases were made to the remaining dining plans.
children under 12 eat free (up to two complimentary child meals per full-price  adult meal).
-- vinylmation fans should stay alert for the new vinylmation popcorns, an updated version of the popular figures, that are due for a summer release.
$110 per person, plus tax.
-- candlelight processional lunch and dinner packages go on sale july 26.
--  disney's contemporary resort is offering a free beer tasting on saturdays at the wave lounge.
for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items, along  with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com november 2011 more dining notes -- a round-up of disney dining-related  tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: -- new world showcase shirts in epcot show off the  specialty foods and beverages of each nation.
“the idea is that you customize your choice,” says chef ed wronski, director, food & beverage concept development, walt disney parks and resorts.
last year, the event offered a variety of seminars, such as a sake hour and bordeaux blending, led by the resort's own food and beverage experts.
in the coming weeks, many walt disney world restaurants will see high demand due to the free dining promotion that is being offered.
-- disneyland noted this week that its eateries will not charge fees for last-minute cancellations or missed reservations.
among other changes, the  appetizer trio is now gone (though you can still get the scotch egg), and a new  pork duo dish has been introduced.
the new katsura grill, which sits on the site of the former yakitori  house in epcot's japan pavilion, is set to open on december 7.
the quick-service dining plan (qsr) now includes 2 qsr meals and 1  snack per guest, per night.
-- savory beignets seem to be all the rage in disney world restaurants!
updated  pricing: standard dining plan (value and regular season) $51.54 per  night ages 10+ and $15.02 per night ages 3-9 standard dining plan (peak  season) $53.54 per night ages 10+ and $16.02 per night ages 3-9 deluxe  dining plan (value and regular season) $85.52 per night ages 10+ and $23.79 per  night ages 3-9 deluxe dining plan (peak season) $89.52 per night ages 10+  and $25.79 per night ages 3-9 premium dining plan $179 per night ages 10+  and $124 per night ages 3-9 platinum dining plan $239 per night ages 10+  and $170 per night ages 3-9 for more details on these and many other disney dining-related items, along  with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com december 2011
for more details on other disney dining-related items, along with photos, visit disneyfoodblog.com - o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o-o- -- cinderella's royal table is now offering the "her royal highness" package to help celebrate birthdays for little princesses at the restaurant.
this special feast will include classic holiday fare, new waldorf astoria traditions, and a special dessert finale.
you cannot combine snack entitlements to purchase a tsr or qsr meal.
brunch will feature the wines of domaine chandon-moet & chandon usa.
upon completion in october 2012, a new lounge area, exterior updates and an updated volcano will be unveiled.
-- cosmic ray's starlight cafe in the magic kingdom has installed lcd menu screens similar to those seen in resort food courts, complete with rotating food images.
more dining notes -- a round-up of disney  dining-related tidbits, courtesy ofthe disney food blog: -- walt disney world new year's eve dining and special events - there are quite a few great new year's eve and new year's day  dining options available in walt disney world this year, including events at  atlantic dance hall, california grill, the world showplace in epcot, and
for more details on other disney dining-related items, along with photos,  visit disneyfoodblog.com january 2012 --
-- mix together chocolate, wine, and romance at the waldorf astoria orlando  every weekend in february with the resort's chocolate, wine, and romance  weekends!
participating restaurants are listed below (prices listed are adult / child): -- biergarten restaurant: lunch $ 32.99 / $ 17.99; dinner $ 50.99 / $ 25.99 -- chefs de france: lunch $ 51.99 / $ 13.99; dinner $ 64.99 / $ 17.99 -- coral reef: lunch $ 51.99 / $ 13.99; dinner $ 64.99 / $ 17.99 -- garden grill restaurant: dinner $ 52.99 / $ 26.99 -- la hacienda de san angel: dinner $ 64.99 / $ 17.99 -- le cellier steakhouse: lunch $ 53.99 / $ 14.99 -- nine dragons restaurant: lunch $ 38.99 / $ 12.99; dinner $ 49.99 / $ 15.99 -- restaurant marrakesh: lunch $ 38.99 / $ 12.99; dinner $ 49.99 / $ 15.99 -- rose & crown pub & dining room: lunch $ 38.99 / $ 12.99;
for reservations,  e-mailwdw.tables.in.wonderland@disney.com with the following  information: your interest to book, your name, daytime phone number, home  address, and the number of people in your party.
-- disney world free dining has been extended through september 2012 for guests from canada and latin america.
look for scallops, fish  & chips, and calamari & pasta.
the wave... of american flavors presents ben mclean iii, vice president of uncle matt's organic citrus, a florida-based, family-owned company offering premium quality organic citrus juices and organic produce.
see studioscentral.com for details and photos.
beginning october 26, 2011, a number of walt disney world resort restaurants will adoptchanges to their cancellation policy.
dining room refurbishments are underway at wolfgang puck express in orlando's downtown disney, with a mid-february completion date.
-- sweet sundays will return on october 2, 9, 16, 23, 30, november 6, 13.
this new menu  will keep some old favorites (like jambalaya), put a new spin on others (like  the beloved cornbread), and add some entirely new dishes to the mix.
as a result, the nearby maya  grill will no longer be open for breakfast.
you choose which performance you'd like to attend when you order  your meal.
and, yes, it's part of the disney dining plan -- a quick-service entitlement.
for reservations for any of these events, e-mail wdw.tables.in.wonderland@disney.com with the following information: your interest to book, your name, daytime phone number, home address, and the number of people in your party.
joining this year's line-up is a new creation in the lobby of the boardwalk  resort.
dinner is $92 per  person; includes tax and gratuity.
while the beloved homemade ice cream sandwich remains, the  addition of three newwaffle sandwiches is the big news.
hours of operation: noon-8 p.m., except on fridays during extra magic hours (emh) when the pizza window is open noon-9 p.m.
on saturday may 28, 2011, tables in wonderland members are invited to a private dessert party!
-- cheese seminars will be october 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, november 5, 12.
a new pulled beef sandwich is featured at tamu tamu refreshments in  disney's animal kingdom, and it's getting great reviews!