benefits: learning effective communication skills at their most basic level, improving your listening ability, feeling the sentence structure and rhythm.
predictable: all of these programs are predictable and give you the same questions and answers every time.
here is one activity that you can do to begin learning naturally.
you do increase the depth of your knowledge but not your skill.
over the next couple of weeks we will add more activities and the theory behind the practice.
if you try to speak with  someone and they dont ask or answer the way you have memorized you are up a  creek.
if you teacher is not positive, friendly, and interested in the language and you as a student then they will most likely not give you 100% and will not require 100% from you.
you have to speak with natives in order to learn how and when to use certain words 2.
you teacher needs to be constantly asking you questions, encouraging, and conversational.
here are some activities that you can do to help you learn like a kid.
make sure that you keep it simple, observe, and practice like a kid does while growing up, trial and error.
there will be more regarding natural learning coming soon.
as adults learning things academically and systematically are so emphasized that we have lost touch with the part of our brain that learns intuitively and through observation.
sign up for newsletter schedulea free class!480-626-5180 subscribe to our email newsletter for news, language, tips and site updates.
if you try to speak with someone and they dont ask or answer the way you have memorized you are up a creek.
out dated: these programs take years to develop and  after being on the market for a couple of years they are no longer relevant to  todays vocabulary and subjects.
practicing and  building your comfort level, confidence, and intuitive understanding will you  gain the agility of a native speaker.
saying that we will come back to a subject at a later time is different than completely ignoring your goals.
the coach will never be able to make a successful basketball team.
comments off | print this post
no matter what your opinion is on tv watching it can be an amazing tool for learning a foreign language.
the most important thing is that the teacher understands your goals and needs.
so when learning plan activities that will help you learn naturally.
languages are a social experience and if your teacher is shy, distant, or not invested then it will make your lessons very tedious and ineffective.
sign up for newsletter video regarding the amish language videos on early childhood language learning improve your accent and pronunciation tempe, az subscribe to our rss feed to receive the latest le tutor news and updates instantly!
written by aaron comments off |  print this post now that i have your attention let me explain what i mean.
these programs are good at what they do, but are not the answer to learning to speak a language fluently.
blind memorization: most programs have you memorizing  tons of vocabulary without teaching you how to use it.
facebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit written by aaron
benefits: observe and mimic natives, interact and speak with native speakers, feel the rhythm of the language, and see the mannerisms of natives while they speak.
comments off | print this post first of all there are many different dimensions to language learning and depending on your goals for learning a foreign language you will want to look for different qualities in your teacher.
written by aaron comments off | print this post now that i have your attention let me explain what i mean.
these programs are good at what they do, but are not the  answer to learning to speak a language fluently.
unfortunately it doesnt exist, at least not yet.
its like giving you oil paints without teaching you the art of painting.
play a game – kids always play games and will allow you to learn real life speaking skills in a relaxed and comfortable situation.
leonardo da vinci believed that experience is the best test of all truth and said but to me all knowledge is vain and fraught with errors unless it is born of experience, the mother of all certainty.
humans are not predictable therefore you need to learn languages in a  manner that will prepare you for spontaneous situations.
* for all of you who have kids or was one of these kids youll get the joke.
communication - you need to be able to relate and feel comfortable with your teacher socially.
you dont advance: you do learn new words and concepts but your ability to use them in an actual conversation does not change.
yes, you need vocabulary but computers are not yet able to create real life speaking situations that a human teacher can.
benefits: learn and practice new vocab, build confidence, strengthen speaking and listening skills, learn new vocabulary.
part 2 will focus on goal specific skills and qualities that you should consider when choosing a foreign language tutor.
to overcome this you must read current  materials in the language, like newspapers, and speak to natives.
practicing and building your comfort level, confidence, and intuitive understanding will you gain the agility of a native speaker.
your experience will be more effective and more fun!
yes, you need vocabulary but  computers are not yet able to create real life speaking situations that a human  teacher can.
so let me list a  few reasons why language software and programs are horrible.
blind memorization: most programs have you memorizing tons of vocabulary without teaching you how to use it.
there are many programs and gimmicks out there that claim to have the magic answer to languages.
dont be afraid to make mistakes and ask a lot of questions.
you do  increase the depth of your knowledge but not your skill.
experience knowledge is essential however if the teacher has no practical experience that knowledge is useless.
so let me list a few reasons why language software and programs are horrible.
keep it simple stupid.
children, unlike adults, learn solely from experience, intuition, and observation and that is why they learn so quickly.
so find local cultural activities and try and attend one or two a month.
you should feel comfortable asking your teacher what their plan of action is and how they plan to help you achieve your goals in the language.
if a teacher tells you that you have to learn a certain way because thats the way it is and is not interested in focusing on your interests then you should consider whether or not you are receiving effective language lessons.
you should try and learn some relevant vocabulary, culture, or background before your activity.
to overcome this you must read current materials in the language, like newspapers, and speak to natives.
facebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit subscribe to our rss subscribe to our blog and get all the latest information about new languages...
nobody wants to learn a foreign language to be boring.
its like giving you oil  paints without teaching you the art of painting.
there are many  programs and gimmicks out there that claim to have the magic answer to  languages.
now depending on your level you can choose more advanced programming but kids programs are a great way to learn a foreign language because they follow the always popular k.i.s.s. method.
facebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon -  del.icio.us - furl - reddit learning languages naturally part 2 written by aaron
this can only be done  by seeking out opportunities to use your new found understanding.
its like a basketball coach who has read all the books but has never played the game.
when learning a foreign language you need to learn the language like you learned your native language.
also, games do not demand a large vocabulary.
the same is for languages.
however if your pursuit is solely academic this may not be a large issue and i will discuss why later.
if you look at other cultures and languages you recognize that everyone that is born into them has been able to learn their language.
i will first cover the general characteristics that all language teachers should exude and i will follow that explanation with a more goal specific list of qualities your language teacher should have in part 2.
you have to speak with natives in order to learn how and when to  use certain words 2.
in order for someone to elevate you to a higher place they themselves must be in a higher place.
© letutor language school 2012
you dont advance: you do learn new words and concepts  but your ability to use them in an actual conversation does not change.
if your teacher cannot say that they have spent a significant amount of time living, speaking, or working with the people that speak the language there is no way they will have the cultural insight to teach you any real life language skills.
predictable: all of these programs are predictable and  give you the same questions and answers every time.
out dated: these programs take years to develop and after being on the market for a couple of years they are no longer relevant to todays vocabulary and subjects.
language learning is a life long commitment that will take a combination of different learning tools and efforts to achieve your goals.
depending on when you were born you watched more or less tv as a kid.
you can, languages are only foreign because we do not use them.
enthusiasm who wants a boring teacher?
depending on your goals and needs some may be more or less important but generally these are the 5 principal attributes you should look for in a teacher of any kind.
so rent or watch: cartoons, kids programs, movies, and tv shows.
so in order to learn a new language we need to clean or minds of all the things we think we know and open them up to a way of learning that we have forgotten.
the teacher does not have to be an expert in the language but does need to have a significant understanding of the core concepts and ideas needed to help you progress and learn the language yourself.
comments off | print this post keep in mind that you can apply this type of learning to any exercise or activity that you do.
attend a cultural activity kids are always with their families and their families are the ones that teach them to speak their language.
after making my point i would like to say that if you have realistic  expectations of your language software it can be helpful, but it will only  teach you the basics.
in order for any teacher to build lessons that will achieve your goals they must understand your reasons for learning the language.
however sometimes teachers will need to tell you that it is not time to learn a certain subject or to tell you that a question will be answered at a later time because it is not time.
humans are not predictable therefore you need to learn languages in a manner that will prepare you for spontaneous situations.
after making my point i would like to say that if you have realistic expectations of your language software it can be helpful, but it will only teach you the basics.
just like a kid would with their family.
there are 5 qualities that all language teachers should have.
this can only be done by seeking out opportunities to use your new found understanding.
language learning is a life  long commitment that will take a combination of different learning tools and  efforts to achieve your goals.
subscribe to our email newsletter for news, language, tips and site updates.