the video is an open letter to educators.
posted by scott mcleod on february 09, 2010 in online learning, videos | permalink | comments (6) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator, administrators, assistant principals, castle, college, colleges, cyberschools, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational technology leadership, higher education, isd 287, leaders, leadership, leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners, learning, mcleod, mike smart, minnesota, northern star online, online learning, postsecondary, principal, principals, professional development, school, school administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, training, ucea, universities, university, virtual schools here is part 3 of my notes from our day with will richardson.
as sameness and solidarity decline, so too will their political power.
as my letter indicates, i think we need something more intentional and systematic.
research shows that the online predation issue is not nearly as big as we  think; the threat is overblown; we've been datelined to death; and that most  kids are pretty good at navigating the web safely
i would like to publicly thank the other practitioners and academics who took the time out of their extremely busy schedules to participate in the anonymous review process this year: the technology leadership research award is jointly sponsored by castle and the ucea school technology leadership special interest group.
the remainder of the content was delivered in a similar method as my dddm class with online discussions, wikis and other tech leadership related activities and assignments.
posted by scott mcleod on march 03, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world | permalink | comments (7) | trackback (0)
the workgroups create content; post that content online as they go along for review, comment, and input from others; and, over the course of a year, create several units each that add up to a complete, amazing, deep, rich online multimedia textbook.
john  does a nice job of looking at k-12 and higher education and also includes  a post now and then on corporate simulations, serious gaming, and the like.
as postsecondary faculty members, it behooves us to learn about it  and adjust rather than dismissively rejecting the new learning landscape and  stubbornly trying to stick to the status quo.
there are numerous high-quality resources available for k-12 educational technology advocates and change agents, including the 2007 report,maximizing the impact: the pivotal role of technology in a 21st century education system.
hmmm… i wonder if that means the department is going to narrow down the list of required science standards and also pare down the size of approved textbooks.
here’s my first attempt at this task (click on the images for larger versions)… part 1 what needs to be done the first step is to figure out what needs to happen… environmental supports
(does the iowa core go far enough?)
issues 2 and 6 seem to be the result of her own decision-making, not any inherent flaw in online instruction.
there is  a ‘teaching online 101’ course plus a separate gaming module for conspiracy code.
will richardson notes: [a] school superintendent i spoke with … lamented the fact that his it staff wouldn’t give him access to youtube and even wikipedia.
better talent is the most important  ingredient of better schools.
it is destined to be a profession that will no longer concentrate teachers in  common geographic locations and monopoly employers – and the resulting  dispersion of teachers to new locations, combined with the diversity of  employers that goes along with it, cannot help but create additional layers of  differentiation that affect how teachers see their own interests.
julie and andy are talking with someone new on the couch and  i’m soon in the hallway, left at last to collect my thoughts.
theunited states department of education found that four years ago over a third of school districts already had students taking online courses.
this is the standard role, common across virtually all teachers, and has allowed for a pervasive sense of occupational sameness that has long been a very good thing for the unions.
my adventures with horse & hound magazine: florida virtual  school, achieve3000
and it is a fact that in a government of  checks and balances they can use their power to block or weaken most reforms  they do not like.
i have seen many of my own colleagues successfully transition to on-line learning.
great  care has been taken to avoid stigmatization of low-level readers.
results so far seem to be impressive.
as  online courses become even more prevalent than they are now, colleges and  universities either will have to get in the game or be left behind.
i hope to continue teaching courses under these various modalities: online, blended,and face to face, because they acknowledge interactions needed for effective adult learning while utilizing new technologies to allow some of those interactions to occur from a distance.
technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator,  administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, college, colleges,  district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational  administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational  technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership,  leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners,  learning, liberating learning, mcleod, political, politics, postsecondary, power ,principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school  administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts,  school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent,  superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology  coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university technology will free learning from the dead hand of the past terry moe and john chubb say… the american education system faces much more than a performance problem.
in essence, students are given an article to read on the computer that’s aligned with their reading level.
7–9] posted by scott mcleod on september 22, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy,  and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, quotes,  reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (2) |  trackback (0)
i had no idea in advance that i would end  up having a notting hill horse & hound magazine-type  experience (and,
when most people think about online learning, they think about adults  taking online university classes.
the first  evaluation report on theconspiracy code is due in a couple of  weeks but anecdotal evidence looks extremely promising.
posted by scott mcleod on january 03, 2008 in blogging, leadership and vision, online learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
because it is  destined to have surprising and far-reaching effects on politics and power . .
in a "good" face-to-face class meeting (like the one that i led tonight), students may deeply engage in discussions with four or five other peers, and may hear other classmates share out briefly in a whole group setting.
[liberating  learning: technology, politics, and the future of american education, pp.
eastern [/ 7:30pm  gmt]: keith krueger, the ceo of the consortium for school  networking (cosn.org), discusses the education stimulus package and reviews the  results of school cto and superintendent survey.
i believe that this is an idea whose time has come and would welcome the opportunity to discuss this further with you.
technology seems to be advancing more quickly in states where the unions  are weakest” (p. 107).
this represents approximately 2% of  the national k-12 public school student population and is a 22–fold  increase since 2000.about 20 states have statewide virtual high schools that  deliver online courses to students across the state.
but the story of its triumph is a political story.
posted by scott mcleod on february 21, 2007 in communication, gaming, online learning, pre-service preparation, research and evaluation, tech integration, tech tools | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: foreign language, language acquisition, mcleod, minnesota, pragmatics, spanish, sykes, university my letter to secretary spellings in the previous post about online multimedia textbooks is the outcome of a conversation that i had withjim hirsch , associate superintendent for technology and academic services for theplano (tx) independent school district, at the ties conference last december.
some may still work face-to-face with students in classroom settings. . . .
clearly this an expensive venture from a raw dollar standpoint, at least to do it well.
the education innovation blog has an interesting post on closed v. open models of education.
over three or four years, these department-sponsored teams would create 150 to 200 textbooks for common, key courses (e.g., algebra i, physics i, ap english, united states history, 5th grade reading) that are present in nearly every school district nationwide.
i guess she prefers it when her  students stay out of touch and don’t try to get their questions answered.
education has so far resisted this revolution, as we could have predicted.
since postsecondary students vote with their feet and  their pocketbooks, the institution does indeed have to give students online  courses if that’s what they want.
i’m a little bit disoriented but  gamely dive in… conspiracy code runs on a custom gaming engine designed  specifically for flvs by 360ed.
and it is a fact that in a government of checks and balances they can use their power to block or weaken most reforms they do not like.
educational games research (educational gaming) john rice is an educator, author, and speaker, as well as a doctoral student at the university of north texas, who has been blogging about educational gaming since february 2007.
this will mean real improvement, and real benefits for the nation and its children.
as the years go by, they will have a harder time generating the solidarity they need to motivate teachers to join, to keep them as members, to mobilize supportive action - and to do the things successful unions need to do if they are to wield power in politics.
there is little to no  difference in reading experience; it’s actually fairly difficult to tell  at a glance at what level another student is working.
5c: give credit when you use photos (modeling attribution), we've got to share more with each other and with others (can castle  collect some of these stories?)
posted by scott mcleod on december 11, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy,  and ethics, leadership and vision, news and events, online learning, our  changing world, planning and funding, teaching and learning, tech integration |  permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) a day with will richardson, part 2 here is part 2 of my notes from our day with will richardson.
precisely because technology promises to transform the core components of  schooling, it is inevitably disruptive to the jobs, routines, and resources of  the people whose livelihoods derive from the existing system.
north carolina, utah, and alabama also have very robust statewide virtual schools.
how many of your schools teach kids how to be google-able?
a colleague of mine, wary of caving in to students’ demands for online courses, remarked recently that “students demand free beer, too; that doesn’t mean we should give it to them.”
the program accommodates spanish-speaking students (and, soon, those that speak haitian creole).
disclosure: i received no incentives from either organization (other than a thumb drive from flvs that contained the above conspiracy code materials) and was not pressured to cover them in any particular way.
it's early in the game, though.
nowhere does it say that the software is inadequate or that  technology has dubious instructional value.
in iowa, we need a movement!
a promising complement to face-to-face mentoring may be found in the innovative use of computer-mediated communications, such as online forums.
posted by scott mcleod on october 01, 2008 in 21st century, data-driven, guest bloggers, leadership and vision, miscellaneous, not so irrelevant, online learning, our changing world, quotes, safety and security, staff development, tech tools | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: administration, administrators, castle, clayshirky, districts, dyer, education, educationaladministration, educationalleadership, florida, gates, godin, gutenberg, hotchalk, jasondyer, jimgates, leaders, leadership, learning, mcleod, mikesansone, motocross, nasa, octopus, pacifictreeoctopus, principals, richardson, sansone, sasquatch, schooldistricts, schools, science, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, sethgodin, shirky, students, superintendents, taskbar, taskbarshuffle, teachers, teaching, techleadership, technology, technologyleadership, unionsquareventures, wikipedia, willrichardson ,windows, youtube as promised, here is my interview of mike vitelli, ceo of the gaming krib: happy listening!
[liberating learning: technology, politics, and the future of american education] previous posts in this series education’s resistance to technology will be overcome
download the full report if you dare.
to recognize as much is not to launch ideological attacks against the unions.
posted by scott mcleod on june 13, 2007 in online learning, reading, research and evaluation | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: education, education sector, elearning, mcleod, online learning, schools, technology leadership, virtual schools the intent of castle conversations is to interview folks that have expertise and are doing interesting things but may not have much national visibility.
it will also mean something still more profound: the dawning of a new  era in which politics is more open, productive ideas are more likely to  flourish – and learning is liberated from the dead hand of the past.
sometimes the game requires students  to do outside research to complete assignments and proceed forward.
issue 4 doesn’t make any sense to me; didn’t she have the same number of weeks as for her other courses?
a recent survey indicated that the two main issues  holding back technology use are “it doesn’t fit in the  schedule,” and “there is not sufficient time to train  teachers.”
[liberating learning: technology, politics, and the future of american  education, pp.
[and see] the same basic pattern as for virtual schools – which is telling, as virtual schools and teacher identifiers have little to do with one another aside from their impact on union interests” (pp. 138–139).
offer teachers a vast array of occupational opportunities they didn’t have before, encourage a level of entrepeneurialism and individualism among them . . .
the author goes into detail regarding all of the problems that she had with the course, including (but not limited to): this faculty member obviously has no idea that 1, 3, and 5 are dependent on how the course and the technology were structured.
[this is post 2 for my guest blogging stint at the des moines register.]
this didn't just happen though.
conspiracy code product overview flvs consipiracy code web site flvs presskit education next article about flvs
part of the  http://www.edstimulus.org project, join the event at  https://sas.elluminate.com/m.jnlp?password=m.58f396af09b4d1d0dec23158f489cb wednesday, may 6th, at 5:00pm pacific / 8:00pm eastern / 12am gmt: don tapscott, the author or co-author of 13 widely read books,  including wikinomics, discusses with me the future of education, grown up  digital (his latest book), and the net gen education project.
here is the abstract from their co-authored article, electronically mentoring to develop accomplished professional teachers: with nearly half of all new teachers leaving the classroom within five years, schools are faced with the challenge of retaining early-career teachers while simultaneously providing them with the support they need to develop into effective professionals.
this is inquiry- / problem-based learning
students must apply their  knowledge and facts in a number of different ways to be successful.
archimedes said “give me a lever long enough and i can move the world.”
i was delighted to see that bruce started blogging more extensively  last fall and was even more pleased when he agreed to join us.
endapt is an asynchronous online forum that brings together novice teachers and teacher leaders in a virtual mentoring community.
next steps for the company are to 1) create a number of specific science units, and 2) identify and/or write articles that target specific career clusters and can be aligned with theworkkeys job skill assessment program.
for example, todd abrahamson (sigourney) is doing podcasts
leadercamp on twitter and save the date!
some may work with students online but still do it in real time.
there are no adults right now teaching kids how to learn, not just be  social, in these networks video: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jufsdn8dsju he assumes there's an audience and that they'll respond
we'll discuss  his book, web 2.0, and more.
meta-analyses of  existing research show that student achievement in face-to-face and online  courses is approximately equivalent.
what if every teacher and administrator also had to participate in at least one high-quality online professional development experience every three years or so?
that have data systems with the capacity to link students and teachers . . .
nowhere does it say that the software is inadequate or that technology has dubious instructional value.
'cause you don't  have the context.
you also canfind bruce on twitter.
and i hope someone besides me will think big and make this happen.
(stephen  downes) adolescents are growing up in a much more transparent environment than  previous generations; whatever they do is likely going to be public (whether  they like it or not)
teacher resistance to state technology initiatives greater use of technology allows for decreased numbers, but improved  quality, of teachers?
if elementary students spend but one hour a day learning electronically,  certified staff could be reduced by a sixth.
average gains in one year for esl/ell students are 166 lexile points (compared to 27 points expected).
this week i am blogging about 5 key levers that i think are  necessary to move iowa schools forward and help our graduates survive and  thrive in this new digital, global age in which we now live.
for example, both michigan and alabama now have state laws requiring that students have an online  learning experience before they graduate.
what sets technology apart from other sources of reform is that . . .
some may oversee or serve as mentors to the front-line  teachers themselves.
posted by scott mcleod on december 11, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, news and events, online learning, our changing world, planning and funding, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) terry moe and john chubb say… [i]n american education, policy making is not guided by what is best for children or the larger public.
as i walk toward the elevator to return to my own hotel room, i’m left with one thought:man, was that strange.
posted by scott mcleod on march 23, 2010 in leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, teaching and learning, videos | permalink | comments (8) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator, administrators, assistant principals, castle, college, colleges, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational technology leadership, higher education, leaders, leadership, leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners, learning, mcleod, postsecondary, principal, principals, professional development, school, school administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, training, ucea, universities, university scott elias and dave meister are sponsoring leadercamp 2010, an online unconference for school administrators, on june 24, 2010.
we are in the initial stages of gathering real stories about how universal, affordable broadband can make a real difference.
if you can't be found, you're irrelevant (scott mcleod)
it is a  fact that they are more powerful – by far – than any other groups  involved in the politics of education.
reforms of real consequence are vigorously resisted and watered down.
michael’s blog soon will be renamedvirtual school meanderings to  reflect the growth of online schooling in earlier grades.
1a: share the story of what it could look like for kids, lots of meetings  with stakeholders, showed videos/inspiring tool usage by educators, visited  other places, created cognitive disconnects, built partnerships with  business/industry 1b: has to be an ongoing process/conversation 2b: making videocasts, using ipod touches for teacher  observation/evaluation, moved to google docs, using digital discussion forums,  using blogs/wikis/etherpad, school board is now paperless 2e: working with setda or inacol, being active in the blogosphere
who knows what else goes on in the back hallways, hotel suites, and meeting  rooms of necc?!
it cost $1.5 million to develop; costs were  shared equally by flvs and 360ed and spread over three years ($250k per partner  per year).
it generates the innovations that make change attractive, and at the same time it undermines the political resistance that would normally prevent change from happening. . . .
if you're not, can you participate in the conversation?
inpower to the people, they state:
(seewill's post on this, along with the 130+  comments)
our blogs here are the blogs that we’ve initiated to date (and their topical focus): to this mix, we’ve now added the following (which fill in a few significant topical areas in which we were lacking)… 5.
i hope that you can see the instructional power of teachers and students tapping into expert-created content delivered via the latest interactive, engaging digital technologies.
what would our children's lives be like?
will quoted howard gardner: "[a]fter millennia of considering  education (learning and teaching) chiefly in one way, we may well have reached  a set of tipping points:
you also can access state-level reportsat the metiri group’s web site.
in why the flow of innovation has reversed, they note: [t]he vector of innovation has changed.
the sloan consortium estimates that at least 1 million k-12 public school students took an online course last year.
it will also mean something still more profound: the dawning of a new era in which politics is more open, productive ideas are more likely to flourish – and learning is liberated from the dead hand of the past.
eastern / 12am gmt: michael horn,  co-author of disrupting class:  how disruptive innovation will change the  way the world learns, and the co-founder and executive director (education) of  innosight institute, a non-profit think tank devoted to applying the theories  of disruptive innovation to problems in the social sector.
are already demonstrating the feasibility of these ideas – in the toughest of circumstances.
former guest bloggerjason dyer!
“if institutional education refuses to adapt to the landscape of the information age, it will die and should die.”
he views youtube as a learning tool (elliott smith)
each year would see the completion of 50 textbooks.
for example, scott mcnealy, chairman of the board for sun microsystems, said last june that 'technology trumps the textbook.'
but i'll admit it's been a bit nippy here lately.
how many of your schools teach wikipedia (how it works / how to contribute  / etc.)?
whether we want it to or not, the paradigm shift is occurring around us every day.
“[we] look at the percentage of states . . .
previous national reports are availableat the setda web site .
i put in much time preparing for the course and establishing expectations and norms to create a community of learners.
, the video features mike smart, 2007 minnesota teacher of the year, and a number of other minnesota educators and students.
our research shows that even people who don't want broadband for themselves have a vague idea that it is important for kids and schools and the future of education.
part 3 cost i’m working on this part… your input is desired
others, like iowa, have state-led programs that help deliver some online courses to students.
leadercamp on twitter and save  the date!
if you’ve got  some other suggestions for us, or know of a blog that might be a good addition  to our portfolio, let me know!
campuses with the largest enrollments, fall 2005.
imagine 50 teams, each made up of individuals who took a paid sabbatical for one year, working to create rigorous, standards-based, online textbooks that included text, graphics, electronic presentations, audio, video, simulations, learning games, interactive problem-solving and review activities, etc.
posted by scott mcleod on october 22, 2008 in 21st century, data-driven, leadership and vision, online learning, planning and funding, reading, research and evaluation, staff development, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: administration, administrators, advocacy, assessment, broadbandaccess, districts, e2t2, education, educationaladministration, educationalleadership, leaders, leadership, mcleod, metiri, nclb, onlinelearning ,principals, professionaldevelopment, reports, research, schooldistricts, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, setda, staffdevelopment, stem, students, superintendents, teachers, techleadership, technology, technologyleadership, titleiid, training [cross-posted at the techlearning blog] your assignment, should you choose to accept it, is to outline what it takes to get your state or province from ‘here’ to ‘there.’
entities such asiowa learning online, the  iowa online ap academy, and kirkwood community college’s high school  distance learning program all are delivering courses to students.
recommended reading recommended viewing scott mcleod, j.d., ph.d., is an associate professor and coordinator of the educational administration program at iowa state university.
7–9] posted by scott mcleod on september 22, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, quotes, reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator, administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, college, colleges, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership, leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners, learning, liberating learning, mcleod, political, politics, postsecondary, power ,principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university terry moe and john chubb say… the revolution in information technology is historic in its force and scope: reshaping the fundamentals of how human beings from every corner of the globe communicate, interact, conduct their business, and simply live their lives from day to day.
the reasons are numerous for the popularity of online courses with schools,  students, and parents.
the [dayton view academy and dayton academy]  charter schools . . .
it also faces apolitical problem that, in the grander scheme of  things, is more fundamental than the performance problem itself - because it  prevents the performance problem from being seriously addressed and resolved. .
mentoring novice teachers by pairing them with experienced teachers in schools is a widely adopted practice for addressing these needs; however, face-to-face mentoring is subject to challenges.
we need to move from the abstract to the specific.
michael’s blog soon will be renamedvirtual school meanderings to reflect the growth of online schooling in earlier grades.
if folks aren't at the table, get them there!
scores of technology-based instructional programs are being used in schools  throughout america. . . .
this is because the vast majority of educators aren't information literate  themselves
“i’ll never do it again” another article in the same issue of the chronicle describes one faculty member’s woeful experience teaching online.
i encourage you to subscribe to all three of these blogs for a while.
this past spring i taught my first completely on-line course - "data-driven decision making".
many of my students commented that the depth of interaction in this online class was much greater than most of their traditional courses.
florida appears to be the model for the rest of the country.
10–12] posted by scott mcleod on september 23, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy,  and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, quotes,  reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (2) |  trackback (0)
it would be impossible for the information revolution to unfold and not have transformative implications for how children can be educated technology will free learning from the dead hand of the past technological change is destined to be resisted by the teachers unions correlation or causation?
it’s hard for me to be sympathetic regarding issue 7:my students contacted me too much and asked me too many questions!
(p.  158) [t]eachers unions are steadfast in demanding sameness . . .
teacher resistance to state technology  initiatives terry moe and john chubb say… a. “the average technology score
- parents can readily be included in the communications loop.
log-in and other details at http://www.futureofeducation.
but  i thinkclueless fits quite nicely…] posted by scott mcleod on may 29, 2009 in higher education, online learning ,our changing world, teaching and learning | permalink | comments (20) |  trackback (0)
is there a place for current social networking tools in our students' education?
in  essence, students are given an article to read on the computer that’s  aligned with their reading level.
where else is it going to  occur?
once created, these textbooks then could be hosted by the department, state departments of education, and other entities or could be downloaded for hosting on local school district servers.
here are some representative posts to get you started: idaho needs our attention documenting clovis - end of semester edition the impact of opencourseware on paid enrollment in distance
right now we’re sort of ignoring that  requirement. . . .
those of  us in educational leadership academic circles know that bruce is not afraid to  take on the establishment and confront uncomfortable political and educational  truths.
technological change will run into the same political  roadblocks that all major reforms have run into, and for exactly the same  reasons.
we'll discuss his book, web 2.0, and more.
part of the http://www.edstimulus.org project, join the event at https://sas.elluminate.com/m.jnlp?password=m.58f396af09b4d1d0dec23158f489cb wednesday, may 6th, at 5:00pm pacific / 8:00pm eastern / 12am gmt: don tapscott, the author or co-author of 13 widely read books, including wikinomics, discusses with me the future of education, grown up digital (his latest book), and the net gen education project.
we need to educate our educators seth godin says: it’s easy to be against something you’re afraid of.
allow schools to use/create free textbooks and use textbook money for  student computers
all  flvs teachers receive extensive professional development before they’re  allowed to teach.
as they say, “it’s gonna be awesome.
i'm looking forward to the submissions for next year!
you also can  see the live chat and/or follow the twitter conversation and/or participate in  etherpad.
if anything is stone-cold certain about the current structure of power, it is that technological change is destined to be resisted by the teachers unions and their allies.
[chart is from p. 119] c.
teachers monitor student progress; each of the 10 missions takes 2 to 3 weeks.
but i thinkclueless fits quite nicely…] posted by scott mcleod on may 29, 2009 in higher education, online learning ,our changing world, teaching and learning | permalink | comments (20) | trackback (0)
technorati tags: administration, administrators, castle, districts, education, educationaladministration, educationalleadership, leaders, leadership ,learning, mcleod, principals, schooldistricts, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, students, superintendents, teachers, teaching, techleadership, technology, technologyleadership my latest roundup of links and tools… when did the it staff get promoted above the superintendent?
so might a consortium of states or maybe a large private foundation.
reforms of  real consequence are vigorously resisted and watered down.
it is a fact that the teachers unions have vested interests in preserving the existing educational system, regardless of how poorly it performs.
students and parents value the flexibility, accessibility, and convenience of online coursework.
i guess she prefers it when her students stay out of touch and don’t try to get their questions answered.
with the growing availability of tools to connect  learners and scholars all over the world — online collaborative  workspaces, social networking tools, mobiles, voice-over-ip, and more —  teaching and scholarship are transcending traditional borders more and more all  the time.
it's not hard to make the case that the world is now 24/7/365 anyone  anytime anywhere.
however, the online forums and wikis that i utilized in the dddm class, allowed students to interact with all of their peers, not just a small group.
this week i am blogging about 5 key levers that i think are necessary to move iowa schools forward and help our graduates survive and thrive in this new digital, global age in which we now live.
it might be a video phone system so that they could communicate with their grandparents who live far away.
all textbook material would be free and openly accessible to our nation’s k-12 students and educators.
posted by scott mcleod on november 30, 2006 in law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, staff development, tech integration | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: online learning, virtual schools i just finished teaching my thursday night class "leading change" and decided to blog about the changing paradigm of offering courses and entire programs entirely online or through a blended model using face to face and online instruction.
as they say,  “it’s gonna be awesome.
at the middle school level, two hours a day with computers would reduce staff requirements by a third.
dr. michael barbour, an assistant professor at wayne state university,  has been blogging about online schooling for years.
technorati tags: administration, administrators, blogging, blogs, education ,educationaladministration, educationalleadership, leaders, leadership, mcleod, principals, schools, scottmcleod, superintendents, technology, technologyleadership check out the transcript of will richardson's live online chat about the educational benefits of social networking.
keith takes a holistic view of the costs of technology, discusses proactive strategic and tactical approaches to minimize the damage from reduced technology investments, and explores how technology can be used to save time and money.
wikibooks, a project of the wikimedia foundation, seems to be having a hard time getting off the ground; most of its content has yet to be created or is in the very earliest stages of development.
the des moines public schools also are exploring some online learning options.
we are the last generation that had a choice about technology (sheryl  nussbaum-beach)
as postsecondary faculty members, it behooves us to learn about it and adjust rather than dismissively rejecting the new learning landscape and stubbornly trying to stick to the status quo.
there sure are a lot of faculty who teach online and also have students who like them.
there are  too many options available to students for anything else to occur.
whether  it’s a statewide virtual school or some other model, we must  significantly increase the number of online courses available to iowa students  if we are to provide them access to the high-quality learning opportunities  envisioned in theiowa core curriculum.
clay shirky notes that “we’re clocking a singularity a week at this point.”
historical facts are interwoven throughout the gaming  experience and student-teacher discussion.
well, we will be shifting a couple of our existing blogs over to wordpress, so you’ll see some visual changes and added functionality in the next few months.
where’s the “quality?” new jersey teacher salaries:
it's a choice not to do nothing.
so might others, for a variety of political, educational, and sociological reasons.
spiraling out of control?
if any of you are interested in participating in one of these projects, drop me a note athttp://www.speedmatters.org/contact.html anyone willing to talk with beth?
hope to see some of you participate in  at least one of these!
i think i can make the first two and would do the third one too if my son didn’t have baseball practice.
yesterday i discussed21st century curricula.
good results also are being seen with students with special needs (see, e.g.,  the arrowhead (wi) schools).
this is a model that many professors use and i personally believe that it has been very effective.
i’m handed another  publicity packet, do the quick meet-and-greet, and away we go… achieve3000 is a ‘differentiated instruction solution.’
in the meantime, all i can say is… stupid faculty.
he blogs regularly at www.dangerouslyirrelevant.org .
the video will be used for educational and policy advocacy purposes  with community members, parents, administrators, and legislators.
" leadership is a choice.
although i know that each of you usually reads every comment on this blog (hah!), beth allen of the cwaleft a later comment that i thought was worth bringing to the forefront: hello all.
i can guarantee that you’ll learn a lot and gain  some valuable resources for your own work.
technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator, administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, college, colleges, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership, leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners, learning, liberating learning, mcleod, political, politics, postsecondary, power ,principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university terry moe and john chubb say… the american education system faces much more than a performance problem.
this allows low-level readers to still contribute to class  discussions.
just look around right now and see the trends that  already are happening and just project those out and see that it’s going  to be a very different world.
we believe the resistance will be overcome – not simply because technology generates innovations of great value for student learning (which it does), but . . .
posted by scott mcleod on july 05, 2009 in gaming, miscellaneous, online  learning, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (0) |  trackback (0) technorati tags: 360ed, academia, academic, achieve3000, administration,  administrator, administrators, assistant principals, castle, college, colleges,  conspiracy code, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs,  education, educational administration, educational gaming, educational  leadership, educational technology, educational technology leadership, flvs,  gaming, higher education, hugh grant, iste, julie young, leaders, leadership,  leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners,  learning, mcleod, necc, necc09, notting hill, postsecondary, principal,  principals, professional development, school, school administration, school  administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders, school  principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, staff  development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher,  teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, training, ucea, universities, university online instruction, stubborn resistance, and stupid faculty a two-part tale of higher education and online instruction… “students demand free beer too” a may 29 article in the chronicle of higher education reads as  follows: opponents of online instruction believe that traditional, face-to-face  teaching is always better.
fyi, theuniversity of phoenix has more than twice the number of students (117,309) as any of the next four (which range from 54,169 to 50,663).
here are some representative posts to get you started: 7.
see also my older post: principal blogging not allowed.
when my 30 minutes with julie and andy are up, i’m swooped into that room, replaced by someone else who gets my spot on the flvs couch.
are you learning /  interacting differently?
xi-xii] posted by scott mcleod on september 21, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy,  and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, quotes,  reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (7) |  trackback (0)
we used this document as a self-rubric.
this group-forming ability is everywhere obama's use of social media for presidential election flickr tag: iranelection raw information is being released rather than it being edited / filtered  first
next steps for the company are to 1) create a  number of specific science units, and 2) identify and/or write articles that  target specific career clusters and can be aligned with theworkkeys job skill  assessment program.
posted by scott mcleod on march 23, 2010 in leadership and vision, online  learning, our changing world, teaching and learning, videos | permalink |  comments (8) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator,  administrators, assistant principals, castle, college, colleges, district,  districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational  administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational  technology leadership, higher education, leaders, leadership, leadership  development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners, learning,  mcleod, postsecondary, principal, principals, professional development, school,  school administration, school administrator, school administrators, school  districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools,  scott mcleod, scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology  coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, training, ucea,  universities, university leadercamp 2010: an online unconference for school leaders scott elias and dave meister are sponsoring leadercamp 2010, an  online unconference for school administrators, on june 24, 2010.
or they might think about the online training that occurs in many workplaces.
technology seems to be advancing more quickly in states where the unions are weakest” (p. 107).
it’s hard for  me to be sympathetic regarding issue 7:my students contacted me too much  and asked me too many questions!
it  generates the innovations that make change attractive, and at the same time it  undermines the political resistance that would normally prevent change from  happening. . . .
class of 2020 action plan for education project is releasing its reports.
bruce writes  about deep, significant school funding and/or policy issues, but does so in a  way that’s accessible to those of us who aren’t experts in this  area.
some supports need to be in place to facilitate effective implementation… part 2 marketing there’s also a marketing piece to this.
how these  seemingly contradictory directions are addressed impacts the future complexion  of learning.
and you don’t even have to be that visionary.
there sure are a lot of faculty who teach online and also  have students who like them.
dr. michael barbour, an assistant professor at wayne state university, has been blogging about online schooling for years.
today, it is the reverse.
could we fill in the rubric examples as a group and then share with others?
the brains behind the math?
historical facts are interwoven throughout the gaming experience and student-teacher discussion.
it should make for interesting times.
technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator,  administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, college, colleges,  district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational  administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational  technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership,  leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners,  learning, liberating learning, mcleod, political, politics, postsecondary, power ,principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school  administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts,  school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent,  superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology  coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university education's resistance to technology will be overcome terry moe and john chubb say… the revolution in information technology is historic in its force and  scope: reshaping the fundamentals of how human beings from every corner of the  globe communicate, interact, conduct their business, and simply live their  lives from day to day.
theweb site for the symposium states that the presentations, workshops, lunch, and discussions will explore and inspire strategies about online learning, including math and science, credit recovery, meeting the needs of gifted students, alternative students, remedial education, and increasing access to advanced courses and college prep.
i like how they included a panel session for symposium participants to hear from virtual high school students.
schools spend money on a lot of things that they don't need to be buying  except in limited numbers: software licenses, textbooks, etc.
[fiber to the home] with speeds of 30 mbps or more).
we believe the resistance will be  overcome – not simply because technology generates innovations of great  value for student learning (which it does), but . . .
this is “their” system, and they are compelled by their own interests to preserve and protect it.
back in february it released its annualtrends report on nclb title ii, part d (enhancing education through technology, or e2t2).
way back on june 20 i had the pleasure of talking with chris craft about online learning for a class he's taking.
students who read one article a week average 102 lexile  point gains; students who read two articles per week average 124.
technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrators, castle ,chronicle, districts, education, educationaladministration,  educationalleadership, faculty, highered, instruction, leaders, leadership,  mcleod, onlinecourses, onlinelearning, postsecondary, principals, professors,  schooldistricts, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, students, superintendents,  teachers, teaching, techleadership, technology, technologyleadership an amazing lineup of classroom 2.0 events steve hargadon over at classroom 2.0 has an amazing set of webinars lined  up for us this week.
i need a final version by november 5.
a robust online learning infrastructure for students makes a lot of sense for the state of iowa (and i’m glad there’sa bill in the iowa house to consider it).
michael posts a lot; the  comprehensiveness of information he provides is astounding.
" is your own personal learning practice transcendent?
eastern / 12am gmt: michael horn, co-author of disrupting class: how disruptive innovation will change the way the world learns, and the co-founder and executive director (education) of innosight institute, a non-profit think tank devoted to applying the theories of disruptive innovation to problems in the social sector.
technological change will run into the same political roadblocks that all major reforms have run into, and for exactly the same reasons.
in short, i believe i was treated much like any media representative, despite being ‘just a blogger.’
a strategic investment of monies could go a long way toward creating some pedagogically powerful, wonderfully engaging, online multimedia textbooks that then could be used by anyone in the country (or world).
all of this is in contrast to schools’ typical practice of having separate books or textbooks – often on separate topics – or pullout programs for struggling readers.
there is little to no difference in reading experience; it’s actually fairly difficult to tell at a glance at what level another student is working.
the same cannot be said of the traditional “technology” of education - teachers and classrooms - unless that world changes fundamentally.
better talent is the most important ingredient of better schools.
how are you personally taking advantage of these online / technological  affordances?
it's increasingly an open source / creative commons
i have known dr. bruce baker, school finance professor extraordinaire, for many years.
right now we’re sort of ignoring that requirement. . . .
all in all, it appears to be a solid  attempt at integrating gaming into the education experience.
north carolina, utah, and alabama also have very robust statewide  virtual schools.
just look around right now and see the trends that already are happening and just project those out and see that it’s going to be a very different world.
who needs to be informed about what needs to be done in order to facilitate a broad base of support and buy-in?
textbook content would be refreshed every three or four years to ensure content relevance and usage of the latest digital technologies.
i’ll have to catch it on replay.
i want it right there finally, if you’re anal-retentive about your windows taskbar like i am, check outtaskbar shuffle.
and all of this promotes solidarity, which is critical to the unions’ ability to attract members, gain their financial and emotional support, and mobilize them for economic and political ends.
however, even if online enrollments in iowa soon will number in the low thousands, the overall availability of online learning opportunities for iowa students still is extremely low.
the nextconspiracy code game will  target reading and comes out in august.
maybe we should do this for teachers and administrators too "seventy-one-year-old peggy mcintyre needs to learn as much as she can about windows before 8 a.m.
if you don't share, you don't get hits / visits; you're not visible
i am a learner in the area of  educational gaming so i always gain a lot from john’s posts.
there  is some really important information and thinking coming out of all  three of these channels.
the video will be used for educational and policy advocacy purposes with community members, parents, administrators, and legislators.
you also  cansee the live chat and/or follow the twitter conversation and/or participate  in etherpad.
the nichification / ghettoization / balkanization of society communities of interest don't look like communities of geography
[chart is from p. 108] b. “the percentage of states with state-level  virtual schools drops steadily as the unionization of teachers grows” (p.  118).
the sloan consortium estimates that at least 1 million k-12 public school  students took an online course last year.
- schools can be operated at lower cost, relying more on technology (which is relatively cheap) and less on labor (which is relatively expensive). . . .
to this mix, we’ve now added the following (which fill in a few  significant topical areas in which we were lacking)… 5.
anyone have any suggestions?
technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator,  administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, college, colleges,  district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational  administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational  technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership,  leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners,  learning, liberating learning, mcleod, political, politics, postsecondary, power ,principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school  administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts,  school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent,  superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology  coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university technological change is destined to be resisted by the teachers unions terry moe and john chubb say… the fact that [technology] offers enormous benefits is not enough to  guarantee that it will be embraced by the public schools and its potential  fully realized.
florida virtual school i knock on a door and am quickly ushered into a hotel suite.
it would be impossible for the information revolution to unfold and not  have transformative implications for how children can be educated technology will free learning from the dead hand of the past technological change is destined to be resisted by the teachers unions posted by scott mcleod on september 26, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy,  and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, quotes,  reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (17) |  trackback (0)
school leadership, teacher quality, standards, testing, funding, and a host of other issues have crowded reform agendas.
here are some representative posts to get you started: i encourage you to subscribe to all three of these blogs for a while.
i can’t wait to see what happens over the next couple of decades.
here’s the relevant portion of steve’s recent  e-mail message: tuesday, may 5th, at 12:30pm pacific / 3:30pm
the #1 characteristic of a healthy network is diversity of ideas.
sincerely, dr. scott mcleod assistant professor, department of educational policy and administration director, ucea center for the advanced study of technology leadership in education (castle) affiliate faculty, law school university of minnesota posted by scott mcleod on february 20, 2007 in assistive and accessible, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, management and operations, online learning, planning and funding, tech integration, tech tools | permalink | comments (13) | trackback (0) technorati tags: education, investment, magner, mcleod, multimedia, online, schools, spellings, standards, strategic, students, teachers, technology leadership, textbooks, wiki
they're wary of being open and findable
if you can't figure out who's behind http://www.martinlutherking.org/,  you're illiterate these days
fyi, tomorrow is an online discussion with thomas hutton, senior staff attorney for the national school boards association, onnavigating the legal landmines associated with new technologies.
i have also seen those who did not put the time and energy necessary for their on-line classes to be successful and the results were as bad as expected.
most students spend about an hour a day working for the class, some of which is in the game environment.
after 101 views, he had 10 comments (10% hit rate); all 10 had specific  feedback/suggestions for him
i have known dr. bruce baker, school finance professor extraordinaire, for  many years.
math and motocross check out this sweet series of motocross math videos at hotchalk.
this will mean real improvement, and real benefits for the nation and its  children.
learning  courses virtual schooling in the news virtual schooling presentations at site 6.
the most recent data from the international association for k-12 online learning (inacol) show that only a few hundred of the 480,000 k-12 students in iowa are enrolled in online courses.
[o]ne reason this is happening is that the success of a web service is more often determined by its social engineering than its electrical engineering.
added time for professional development, with proper supervision and accountability, would improve teacher quality.
the topic: flvs’ new online video game / american  history course,conspiracy code.
angela maiers and mike sansone have been of great assistance with this first draft (any mistakes or logic flaws are mine alone!).
this is the standard role, common across virtually all teachers, and has  allowed for a pervasive sense of occupational sameness that has long been a  very good thing for the unions.
as the years go by, they will have a harder time generating the  solidarity they need to motivate teachers to join, to keep them as members, to  mobilize supportive action - and to do the things successful unions need  to do if they are to wield power in politics.
technorati tags: craft, distance education, higher education, internet, leadership, mcleod, online learning, technology okay, it's time to try out a new feature here at dangerously irrelevant: the report of the week (rotw).
modeling by adults implies intentional, visible behavior models that will has seen science leadership academy (philadelphia, pa) - inquiry-based laptop  magnet school, students are patenting a student-created biodiesel generator,  sla is tough to scale, defining questions =
i was delighted to see that bruce started blogging more extensively last fall and was even more pleased when he agreed to join us.
disempowered tomorrow i left this comment at jim gates’ tipline blog: students who aren't fluid technology users today will be the low-wage workers and disempowered citizens of tomorrow.
the game includes 51 assessments (both oral and written), 270 mini-games, numerous interrogations, 30 ‘agent eliminations,’ and 371 clues.
the quality of teachers would benefit from the increased use of technology  in at least two important ways.
teacher resistance to state technology initiatives posted by scott mcleod on october 05, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy,  and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world,  planning and funding, quotes, reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (5) | trackback (0) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator,  administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, charter schools,  college, colleges, dayton, dayton academy, dayton view academy, district,  districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational  administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational  technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership,  leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners,  learning, liberating learning, mcleod, ohio, political, politics, postsecondary, power, principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school  administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts,  school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent,  superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology  coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university correlation or causation?
the students who  seem to like the game the most are the ones who ‘hate history.’
the focus was mainly on higher education but much of our conversation was relevant to the k-12 world as well.
issue 4 doesn’t make any sense to me; didn’t
disempowered today =
technorati tags: administration, administrators, bernardo, education, educationaladministration, educationalleadership, endapt, gareis, leaders, leadership, mcleod, morrison, nussbaum-beach, principals, research, schools, scottmcleod, sessums, superintendents, technology, technologyleadership, ucea, voss i received this question recently: what resources (contacts, advisors, print, online, etc.)
for many school districts, online courses are the only  way to provide high-level classes such as advanced placement, foreign  language, advanced science or math, and other courses.
they dip in and out of the gaming  engine throughout the year, assembling clues and completing missions.
you have to put yourself out there in ways that people can find you kids are doing this every day without us kids don't care about much of what we have them do in school - it's  inauthentic, it lacks meaningful and relevant purpose, it's disconnected and  decontextualized mit is offering all of its courses online tough questions from will
next steps what lies ahead for the castle blogs?
throughout our conversation, people are coming in and out of a door to another room in the suite (reporters?
but i used the web to provide additional opportunities for collaboration, uploading assignments, posting readings, etc.
a few days before necc i was invited by a publicist to interview julie young, the executive director of theflorida virtual school (flvs), and also speak with the folks fromachieve3000.
it will be  interesting to see the evaluation results when they come out.
posted by scott mcleod on may 09, 2008 in gaming, interviews, leadership and vision, online learning, podcasts, tech integration | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: administration, administrators, castle, castleconversations, districts, education, educationaladministration, educationalleadership, gaming krib, gamingkrib, leaders, leadership, mcleod, principals, schooldistricts, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, students, superintendents, teachers, techleadership, technology, technologyleadership, vitelli one of the things we do at castle is try and expose administrators to modern technology tools with which they may be unfamiliar.
although we can’t share the actual article with you (because it’s currently under review by a journal), chris and sheryl will be giving a presentation on their paper at theucea conference in november which we will try to make available to folks.
[chart is from p. 108] b. “the percentage of states with state-level virtual schools drops steadily as the unionization of teachers grows” (p. 118).
outside of school all of our learning is inquiry- / passion-based that's the way that world looks for anyone with an internet connection finland has legislated nationwide broadband access by 2012
it would be impossible for the information revolution to unfold and not  have transformative implications for how children can be educated technology will free learning from the dead hand of the past technological change is destined to be resisted by the teachers unions correlation or causation?
[source: chronicle of higher education.
who knows what else goes on in the back hallways, hotel suites, and meeting rooms of necc?!
quite informative, but strange nonetheless.
students aren’t the only ones missing the big picture
i accepted because i’ve always  wanted the chance to talk with julie.
networks are about people who are cooperating and sharing; communities are  groups of people who know each other, roll up their sleeves, and collaborate  (go even further than networks)
even after investing in hardware and software, which are trivial compared to the cost of teachers, schools would have funds from staff savings to increase teacher pay and to provide more time for teacher training and planning.
several other  districts are piloting it.
[t]he idea is to minimize all sources of differentiation, because they undermine the common interests and solidarity that so contribute to union success. . . .
we are spending a lot more time interfacing through screens
however, even if online enrollments in iowa soon will number in  the low thousands, the overall availability of online learning  opportunities for iowa students still is extremely low.
a robust online learning infrastructure for students makes a lot of  sense for the state of iowa (and i’m glad there’sa bill in the iowa  house to consider it).
posted by scott mcleod on october 08, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, planning and funding, quotes, reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (12) | trackback (1) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator, administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, charter schools, college, colleges, dayton, dayton academy, dayton view academy, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership, leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners, learning, liberating learning, mcleod, ohio, political, politics, postsecondary, power, principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university terry moe and john chubb say… there is every reason to believe that technology will only become more effective with time.
“i’ll never do it again” another article in the same issue of the chronicle describes one  faculty member’s woeful experience teaching online.
my learning today looks nothing like the learning that's occurring my  kids' classrooms
the business sector is behind this; they want specific policy initiatives  (can isea / sai / iowa business leaders / etc.
leadertalk (school leadership; group blog) edjurist (school law; group blog) 1to1 schools (1:1 laptop programs; group blog)
community forums that educate the average iowan / statewide visibility  initiative more online coursework options (e.g., statewide virtual high school) education of teachers / community members about workforce / 21st century  skills / globallization needs/issues greater flexibility for schools to use existing funding streams repeal / revise dillon's rule?
if so, drop her a note!
posted by scott mcleod on july 05, 2009 in gaming, miscellaneous, online learning, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: 360ed, academia, academic, achieve3000, administration, administrator, administrators, assistant principals, castle, college, colleges, conspiracy code, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational administration, educational gaming, educational leadership, educational technology, educational technology leadership, flvs, gaming, higher education, hugh grant, iste, julie young, leaders, leadership, leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners, learning, mcleod, necc, necc09, notting hill, postsecondary, principal, principals, professional development, school, school administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, training, ucea, universities, university a two-part tale of higher education and online instruction… “students demand free beer too” a may 29 article in the chronicle of higher education reads as follows: opponents of online instruction believe that traditional, face-to-face teaching is always better.
some  ‘barriers’ were put in place to ensure that students didn’t  play more than work (e.g., students can’t move forward until they work on  their data map, write in their journal, get feedback from their teacher,  etc.).
and it would be impossible for the information revolution to  unfold andnot have transformative implications for how children can be  educated and how schools and teachers can more productively do their jobs. . . .
federal provision of these textbooks would free states and school districts to spend funds on laptops, classroom-level high-speed wireless connectivity, and other technologies necessary to ensure the global competitiveness of our students in the decades to come.
going forward, learning may be far more  individualized, far more in the hands (and the minds) of the learner, and far  more interactive than ever before.
two primarily online universities and one community college among the top five.
information and knowledge are absolutely fundamental to what education is  all about . . .
teachers  monitor student progress; each of the 10 missions takes 2 to 3 weeks.
his kids never went back and looked at all that paper; they had zero  investment in it will showed radio willowweb will showed the 2009 horizon report "increasingly, those who use technology in ways that expand their  global connections are more likely to advance, while those who do not will find  themselves on the sidelines.
many online courses also allow students to proceed at their own pace; collaborate with students from other schools or countries; and/or incorporate digital technologies into their learning.
how are we going to think differently in 3-5 years when every kid comes to  school with ubiquitous access (via cell phones) and has the world's sum of  knowledge in their pockets?
the  program accommodates spanish-speaking students (and, soon, those that  speak haitian creole).
for what it’s worth, beth, here is what i’d talk about: posted by scott mcleod on july 27, 2007 in communication, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, planning and funding, tech integration | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (1) technorati tags: access, broadband, communication, connection, cwa, digital ,divide, ftth, leadership, mcleod, online, technology
the  game requires students to write, create data maps, make timelines, ask  questions, make associations, solve problems, etc.
/  twittersphere 3c: are you creating opportunities for staff to do this?
the game  includes 51 assessments (both oral and written), 270 mini-games, numerous  interrogations, 30 ‘agent eliminations,’ and 371 clues.
all get behind these?)
online learning opportunities for k-12 students are exploding across  america.
but we need access to it.
the world is about networks right now (how can i get the answer i need  when i need it?), it's not about textbooks and memorization check out fanfiction.net to get a sense of user-generated communities we're preparing kids for a world in which they're going to be googled over  and over again in their lives
however, as the course progressed, i was extremely pleased with the level of dialogue and interaction that emerged among the 21 students in the class.
part of the fun at this year's t+l conference!
the profession of the future will be a much more differentiated and entrepeneurial one, and such a profession spells trouble for the unions . . .
posted by scott mcleod on september 26, 2007 in communication, higher education, news and events, online learning, pre-service preparation, research and evaluation, staff development, tech integration | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
posted by scott mcleod on march 19, 2010 in leadership and vision, news  and events, online learning | permalink | comments (0) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator,  administrators, assistant principals, castle, college, colleges, dave meister,  district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational  administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational  technology leadership, higher education, leadercamp, leaders, leadership,  leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners,  learning, mcleod, postsecondary, principal, principals, professional development ,school, school administration, school administrator, school administrators,  school districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents,  schools, scott elias, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, staff development, student,  students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching,  technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology  leadership, training, ucea, universities, university castle adds 3 new blog partners!
some may  work with students in computer labs, handling much larger classes than  today’s teachers do (because the computers are taking over much of the  actual teaching).
please consider instituting a national online textbook initiative.
it’s now a publish-then-filter world.
posted by scott mcleod on august 22, 2006 in news and events, online learning, staff development | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
i’m a little bit disoriented but gamely dive in… conspiracy code runs on a custom gaming engine designed specifically for flvs by 360ed.
whether it’s a statewide virtual school or some other model, we must significantly increase the number of online courses available to iowa students if we are to provide them access to the high-quality learning opportunities envisioned in theiowa core curriculum.
this constitutes a paradox: as the digital  era progresses, learning may be at once more individual (contoured to a  person’s own style, proclivities, and interests) yet more social  (involving networking, group work, the wisdom of crowds, etc.).
for  example, even though the article text and corresponding assignments are  geared to students’ individual reading level, the overall layout of the  article, font size, graphics, etc.
added pay would  help attract and retain better talent.
curriki, which is sponsored by sun and has gotten a lot of media attention, so far seems to consist primarily of disparate resources and activities rather than comprehensive, meaningfully-organized textbooks.
[from education week’stechnology counts 2008] drops as union membership grows. . . .
the federal government clearly has the money to pull this kind of thing off.
but online learning opportunities occur in the  k-12 sector as well and are increasingly popular with students and their  families.
do you recommend to our school leaders - and lawyers - so they can make informed decisions about student access to social networking tools?
it cost $1.5 million to develop; costs were shared equally by flvs and 360ed and spread over three years ($250k per partner per year).
educational games research (educational gaming) john rice is an educator, author, and speaker, as well as a doctoral  student at the university of north texas, who has been blogging about  educational gaming since february 2007.
blogs that deserve a bigger audience 38 posts categorized "online learning" video - an open letter to educators “if institutional education refuses to adapt to the landscape of the  information age, it will die and should die.”
we've made teachers as passive about learning as kids - kids wait for  teachers to tell them how/what to learn; teachers wait for us to tell them  how/what to learn nsdc agrees: it should be long-term, job-embedded professional development  that really shifts practice
virtual high school meanderings (online schooling)
what  can we create?, and what does it mean to lead?, core values of  inquiry/research/collaboration/presentation/reflection high tech high (san diego, ca) - very tech-infused but not getting the  global/networking piece yet australia is getting every kid a netbook/laptop by 2012 can we do this?
the topic: flvs’ new online video game / american history course,conspiracy code.
require different  skills and backgrounds, may call for varying levels of pay, . . .
both seem to be relying on volunteers' efforts for most of the content.
high  schools, with three hours of usage, could reduce staff by up to a half.
posted by scott mcleod on february 09, 2010 in online learning, videos |  permalink | comments (6) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator,  administrators, assistant principals, castle, college, colleges, cyberschools,  district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational  administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational  technology leadership, higher education, isd 287, leaders, leadership,  leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners,  learning, mcleod, mike smart, minnesota, northern star online, online learning,  postsecondary, principal, principals, professional development, school, school  administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts,  school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent,  superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology  coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, training, ucea,  universities, university, virtual schools a day with will richardson, part 3 here is part 3 of my notes from our day with will richardson.
i meet and shake hands with ben noel, ceo of360ed, as he walks out the door.
the florida department of education is concerned that students are missing the big picture when it comes to science.
michael posts a lot; the comprehensiveness of information he provides is astounding.
its enrolllment is growing at a pace of  50% per year.
bruce is a fantastic scholar.
students and parents value the  flexibility, accessibility, and convenience of online coursework.
[h]owever,  technology gives rise to a differentiation of roles among teachers.
pondering the usefulness of value-added assessment of teachers nctq teacher quality ratings:
this is “their” system, and they are compelled by  their own interests to preserve and protect it.
this didn't include all the work that stayed at school
teacher resistance to state technology initiatives posted by scott mcleod on october 05, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, planning and funding, quotes, reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (5) | trackback (0) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator, administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, charter schools, college, colleges, dayton, dayton academy, dayton view academy, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership, leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners, learning, liberating learning, mcleod, ohio, political, politics, postsecondary, power, principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university terry moe and john chubb say… a. “the average technology score
it should  make for interesting times.
we started with a visioning exercise (and accompanying discussion)
i'm not the only one thinking on this front.
his interests extend far beyond  school finance to include a variety of policy and leadership issues.
the florida virtual school offers almost 100 online courses and is expected to serve more than 80,000 students this year.
i could use some help on this not-so-theoretical assignment.
here’s the relevant portion of steve’s recent e-mail message: tuesday, may 5th, at 12:30pm pacific / 3:30pm eastern [/ 7:30pm gmt]: keith krueger, the ceo of the consortium for school networking (cosn.org), discusses the education stimulus package and reviews the results of school cto and superintendent survey.
i accepted because i’ve always wanted the chance to talk with julie.
[feel free to download and play around with these files: png1 png2 ppt pptx] posted by scott mcleod on october 09, 2008 in 21st century, higher education, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, planning and funding, pre-service preparation, staff development ,teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (15) | trackback (2)
i work with the communications workers of america, on the speed matters project, which scott kindly highlighted as a report of the week.
and you don’t even  have to be that visionary.
and  the most powerful groups in that process are special interests, led by the  teachers unions, with a stake in keeping the system as it is. . . .
the same cannot be said of the traditional  “technology” of education - teachers and classrooms - unless  that world changes fundamentally.
i’m whisked out of the back room toward the hotel suite door.
technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator, administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, college, colleges, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership, leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners, learning, liberating learning, mcleod, political, politics, postsecondary, power ,principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university terry moe and john chubb say… the fact that [technology] offers enormous benefits is not enough to guarantee that it will be embraced by the public schools and its potential fully realized.
some may work mainly with parents, monitoring student progress and assuring proper student oversight.
all of this is in contrast to schools’ typical practice of  having separate books or textbooks – often on separate topics – or  pullout programs for struggling readers.
what choice do we have?
require different skills and backgrounds, may call for varying levels of pay, . . .
as you’ll see if you read it for a while, if it has to do with online schooling, you’ll likely find it at michael’s blog.
you also can see the live chat and/or follow the twitter conversation and/or participate in etherpad.
some postsecondary institutions are going to realize that they must become more responsive to student needs and desires in order to survive; others won’t realize it until it’s too late and will disappear altogether.
schools have a lot of tech, but nothing's really different still memorizing a lot of stuff curriculum hasn't changed
we now live in an era of perpetual professional development check out the electronic crime institute (john carver)
sometimes the game requires students to do outside research to complete assignments and proceed forward.
otherwise, the  university literally won’t have any tuition revenue because its  potential students went elsewhere instead.
parents can readily be included in the communications loop.
i have updated our list of blogs that we recommend for school leaders: you can subscribe to each blog individually or i also have created a feed that will allow you to read and/or subscribe to all of the blogs in one place: here's the code if you want to add the blogs as a clip on your web site or a blogroll: 1 year ago: what do students need to memorize?
this article provides an overview of the program model and presents research findings from a study of participants' postings using content analysis methodology to identify and describe the nature of professional conversations among mentors and novice teachers.
you have to create a culture in your teaching staff where, if they need to  know how to blog, they can go online and learn themselves (in communities)
what her academic colleague somehow, incredibly, fails to realize, of  course, is thatstudents don’t have to attend his institution .
i’m whisked out of the back room toward the hotel  suite door.
the [dayton view academy and dayton academy] charter schools . . .
we expect much of that change to be away from the existing educational institutions and towards empowering individuals and newly-formed groups.
there's nothing personalized or passion-based about what we're asking kids  to do in school how can we square this with entrepeneurship, innovation, creativity, 21st  century skills, etc.?
as online courses become even more prevalent than they are now, colleges and universities either will have to get in the game or be left behind.
conspiracy code is designed to be an integrated, full-year course / gaming experience.
the quality of teachers would benefit from the increased use of technology in at least two important ways.
other  districts are finding that online coursework can be an excellent option for at-risk students or credit recovery; for homebound, incarcerated, or  home-schooled students; or for meeting the needs of students who simply may not  be successful in a more traditional classroom environment.
then i  am offered a beverage, plunked onto a couch, handed a packet of publicity  materials, and given 30 minutes to talk with julie and andy ross, vp of global  services for flvs.
keith takes a holistic  view of the costs of technology, discusses proactive strategic and tactical  approaches to minimize the damage from reduced technology investments, and  explores how technology can be used to save time and money.
we’re going to  add some new authors to our group blogs, particularlyleadertalk and 1to1 schools.
and it would be impossible for the information revolution to unfold andnot have transformative implications for how children can be educated and how schools and teachers can more productively do their jobs. . . .
many online  courses also allow students to proceed at their own pace; collaborate with  students from other schools or countries; and/or incorporate digital  technologies into their learning.
posted by scott mcleod on february 20, 2007 in assistive and accessible, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, management and operations, online learning, planning and funding, tech integration, tech tools | permalink | comments (10) | trackback (0) technorati tags: apple, curriki, education, investment, jobs, magner, mcleod, mcnealy, multimedia, nroc, online, pen, puriefoy, schools, spellings, standards, strategic, students, sun, teachers, technology leadership, textbooks, wiki, wikibooks [send this letter to secretary spellings, director magner, and congress] the honorable margaret spellings secretary united states department of education 400 maryland avenue sw washington, dc 20202-7100 dear secretary spellings, the united states department of education currently administers a budget of approximately $56 billion per year in discretionary monies.
some may engage in distance learning but do it asynchronously . . .
yes, i was hugh grant).
the company recommends a minimum of 1 or 2 articles a week but there are articles available every day if desired.
[w]e believe that we are only at the beginning of the web’s impact on the fundamental structure of education.
it would be impossible for the information revolution to unfold and not  have transformative implications for how children can be educated technology will free learning from the dead hand of the past posted by scott mcleod on september 24, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy,  and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, quotes,  reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (10) |  trackback (0)
i want my kid to fail safely in the vicinity of some responsible adult  that can help her recognize the ramifications of the mistakes that she is making it can't all happen at school (dave keane).
that said, the $200 million per year figure that i proposed represents less than 4 one-thousandths of the current federal discretionary funds allocated for k-12 education.
technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator,  administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, college, colleges,  district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational  administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational  technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership,  leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners,  learning, liberating learning, mcleod, political, politics, postsecondary, power ,principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school  administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts,  school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent,  superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology  coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university it would be impossible for the information revolution to unfold and not  have transformative implications for how children can be educated terry moe and john chubb say… even today, with educational technology in its earliest stages: curricula can be customized to meet the learning styles and life  situations of individual students.
at the middle school level,  two hours a day with computers would reduce staff requirements by a third.
i used this model this past summer to teach "technology leadership in schools".
posted by scott mcleod on october 08, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy,  and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world,  planning and funding, quotes, reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (12) | trackback (1) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator,  administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, charter schools,  college, colleges, dayton, dayton academy, dayton view academy, district,  districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational  administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational  technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership,  leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners,  learning, liberating learning, mcleod, ohio, political, politics, postsecondary, power, principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school  administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts,  school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent,  superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology  coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university greater use of technology allows for decreased numbers, but improved  quality, of teachers?
i am amazed that schools are investing in all of these technology tools schools should be in the curriculum business, not the hardware business or  connectivity business we need learners, not teachers, in the front of our classes teachers are no longer the smartest people in the room; the smartest  people in the room are the ones you invite in from outside teachers come in all shapes and sizes from all parts of the world we need to create learning communities, not teaching communities i don't know any kids or teachers that have smartboards in their bedroom;  why aren't we focusing on the technologies that our kids have in hand?
technology, then, is a double-barreled agent of change.
but we are trying to assemble a  portfolio of blogs that meet the various technology and/or leadership needs of  practicing school leaders.
so the question for school leaders and for policymakers is ‘how brave are you and how visionary are you going to be?’
school finance 101 (school finance / policy)
" the reality is that the way we've done professional development for the  last 30 years doesn't work.
turning to the national educational technology standards for  administrators (nets-a).
teacher resistance to state technology initiatives greater use of technology allows for decreased numbers, but improved quality, of teachers?
learning stems from mclarin’s adventures in oklahoma animating the news: how videogame technologies can alter our perceptions  of real live events how to design an educational video game: three important considerations study: reaction times lowered via video games toy spy robots: a practical way to teach programming 7.
it also has a far-reaching capacity tochange politics - and to eat away, relentlessly and effectively, at the political barriers that have long prevented reform.
a few choice items related to virtual worlds... posted by scott mcleod on july 09, 2007 in miscellaneous, online learning | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: blackboard, castronova, congress, donath, everquest, indiana university, leadership, mcleod, media lab, mit, online, second life, technology, virtual is it already july 3?
are already demonstrating the feasibility of these ideas  – in the toughest of circumstances.
those of us in educational leadership academic circles know that bruce is not afraid to take on the establishment and confront uncomfortable political and educational truths.
our blogs here are the blogs that we’ve initiated to date (and their topical  focus): dangerously irrelevant (technology, leadership, and school reform)
great care has been taken to avoid stigmatization of low-level readers.
because it is destined to have surprising and far-reaching effects on politics and power . . . .
we need a new graduation requirement: students will be able to create,  navigate, and grow their own personal learning networks in safe, effective, and  ethical ways
a recent survey indicated that the two main issues holding back technology use are “it doesn’t fit in the schedule,” and “there is not sufficient time to train teachers.”
[chart  is from p. 139]
dmq posted by david quinn on september 21, 2006 in guest bloggers, online learning | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) nacol, uccp, and pepperdine university are co-sponsoring a regional online learning symposium in los angeles, california on october 11, 2006.
it also faces apolitical problem that, in the grander scheme of things, is more fundamental than the performance problem itself - because it prevents the performance problem from being seriously addressed and resolved. . . .
students who read one article a week average 102 lexile point gains; students who read two articles per week average 124.
i am a learner in the area of educational gaming so i always gain a lot from john’s posts.
10–12] posted by scott mcleod on september 23, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, quotes, reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator, administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, college, colleges, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership, leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners, learning, liberating learning, mcleod, political, politics, postsecondary, power ,principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university terry moe and john chubb say… even today, with educational technology in its earliest stages: - curricula can be customized to meet the learning styles and life situations of individual students.
a few days before necc i was invited by a publicist to interview julie  young, the executive director of theflorida virtual school (flvs), and  also speak with the folks fromachieve3000.
that  have data systems with the capacity to link students and teachers . . .
she have the same number of weeks as for her other courses?
if we’re honest with ourselves, we will recognize that most of our school districts will never be able to provide the curricular diversity that most of our graduates need to be effective digital, global workers and citizens.
posted by scott mcleod on september 11, 2007 in higher education, online learning | permalink | comments (4) | trackback (0) technorati tags: administration, administrators, college, colleges, education, educationaladministration, educationalleadership, highered, leaders, leadership, mcleod, phoenix, principals, schools, scottmcleod, superintendents, technology, technologyleadership, universities, university, universityofphoenix earlier this month i featured a report from the communication workers of america (cwa) as my report of the week.
or they might think about the online training  that occurs in many workplaces.
technology will triumph.
this allows low-level readers to still contribute to class discussions.
posted by scott mcleod on may 05, 2009 in news and events, online learning | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: administration, administrators, arra, christensen, claytonchristensen, cosn, cto, disruptingclass, districts, dontapscott, education, educationaladministration, educationalleadership, grownupdigital, hargadon, horn, keithkrueger, krueger, leaders, leadership, mcleod, michaelhorn, netgen, principals, schooldistricts, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, stevehargadon, stimulus, students, superintendents, tapscott, teachers, techleadership, technology, technologyleadership, web20, wikinomics
if you're not uncomfortable right now in education, you're not paying  attention conversations are spreading far beyond physical space, in ways that  previously were not possible
education can be freed from geographic constraint.
here was the temp when i got out of my class in mason city wednesday night: posted by scott mcleod on january 17, 2009 in miscellaneous, online learning | permalink | comments (6) | trackback (0) technorati tags: administration, administrators, ames, chilly, cold, districts, education, educationaladministration, educationalleadership, iowa, leaders, leadership, masoncity, mcleod, midwest, niacc, principals, schooldistricts, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, students, superintendents, teachers, techleadership, technology, technologyleadership, temperature, weather the state educational technology directors association (setda) has been on an unbelievable tear this year.
[h]owever, technology gives rise to a differentiation of roles among teachers.
otherwise, the university literally won’t have any tuition revenue because its potential students went elsewhere instead.
in other words, what would it take to get from our current system of schooling to a robust, province- or statewide system of 21st century learning?
for example, both michigan and alabama now have state laws requiring that students have an online learning experience before they graduate.
keep giving us feedback and let us know what you think.
[t]he pervasive sameness that the unions have always counted on will slowly fall apart.
created byintermediate district 287 in minnesota, which heads up the northern star online collaborative
his interests extend far beyond school finance to include a variety of policy and leadership issues.
some may  still work face-to-face with students in classroom settings. . . .
in short, i believe i was treated much like any media  representative, despite being ‘just a blogger.’
it is destined to be a profession that will no longer concentrate teachers in common geographic locations and monopoly employers – and the resulting dispersion of teachers to new locations, combined with the diversity of employers that goes along with it, cannot help but create additional layers of differentiation that affect how teachers see their own interests.
while i am a huge advocate for technology, i still believe in the power of personal interaction and the synergy that can emerge from a group of people deeply engaged in group discussions and activities.
well, we will be shifting a  couple of our existing blogs over to wordpress, so you’ll see some visual  changes and added functionality in the next few months.
we’re going to add some new authors to our group blogs, particularlyleadertalk and 1to1 schools.
bruce writes about deep, significant school funding and/or policy issues, but does so in a way that’s accessible to those of us who aren’t experts in this area.
if the textbooks were wiki-based, much of the content could be revised and updated even before their refresh cycle came due.
it encourages teachers to see themselves as  having a common set of work interests, as being equally deserving, and as  sinking or swimming together.
here are some representative posts to get you started: 6.
recommended reading
students take about 90 to 100 hours to complete the game.
it's just not us edublogger blowhards; see, e.g., the ncte framework for  21st century curriculum and assessment gut check: how many of these bullet points can you do?
when my 30 minutes with  julie and andy are up, i’m swooped into that room, replaced by someone  else who gets my spot on the flvs couch.
kudos to chris and sheryl.
as you’ll see if  you read it for a while, if it has to do with online schooling, you’ll  likely find it at michael’s blog.
a colleague of mine, wary of caving in to  students’ demands for online courses, remarked recently that  “students demand free beer, too; that doesn’t mean we should give  it to them.”
(p. 149) traditionally, teachers have taught students face-to-face in classrooms.
the icn is a closed, aging network and the course offerings (and monies) there, like everything else in the world, must move to the web.
it would be impossible for the information revolution to unfold and not have transformative implications for how children can be educated technology will free learning from the dead hand of the past posted by scott mcleod on september 24, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, quotes, reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (10) | trackback (0)
posted by scott mcleod on december 11, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy,  and ethics, leadership and vision, news and events, online learning, our  changing world, planning and funding, teaching and learning, tech integration |  permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) a day with will richardson, part 1 here is part 1 of my notes from our day with will richardson.
posted by scott mcleod on february 14, 2010 in blogging, gaming, law, policy, and ethics, online learning | permalink | comments (1) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator, administrators, assistant principals, bloggers, blogging, blogs, bruce baker, castle, college, colleges, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational technology leadership, higher education, john rice, leaders, leadership, leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners, learning, mcleod, michael barbour, postsecondary, principal, principals, professional development, school, school administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, training, ucea, universities, university here’s a 10-minute video i helped make that advocates for p-12 online learning.
it is a fact that the teachers unions have vested interests in preserving  the existing educational system, regardless of how poorly it performs.
finally, can she really blame issue 8 on the fact that the instruction was ‘online?’
it would be impossible for the information revolution to unfold and not have transformative implications for how children can be educated technology will free learning from the dead hand of the past technological change is destined to be resisted by the teachers unions posted by scott mcleod on september 26, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, quotes, reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (17) | trackback (0)
a strategic investment by the department could make an extremely powerful contribution to the k-12 educational landscape and would be a powerful lever toward ensuring that all students had access to top-quality, engaging learning materials.
here are some representative posts to get you started:
we need to stop  tinkering.
can you imagine how fiscally and educationally empowering it would be for schools to have free and open access to 150 to 200 high-quality online multimedia textbooks created by the top experts in the country?
these and other jobs . .
the florida  virtual school offers almost 100 online courses and is expected to serve more  than 80,000 students this year.
the  most recent data from the international association for k-12 online learning  (inacol) show that only a few hundred of the 480,000 k-12 students in iowa  are enrolled in online courses.
precisely because technology promises to transform the core components of schooling, it is inevitably disruptive to the jobs, routines, and resources of the people whose livelihoods derive from the existing system.
achieve3000 is working with the associated press and now has an archive of  over 16,000 nonfiction articles.
michael also  maintains avirtual schooling wiki or you can follow him on twitter.
all of the most interesting stuff is being built first for consumers and is tricking back to the enterprise. . . .
keep up the great work, setda!
hope to see some of you participate in at least one of these!
they will go to the ramparts to see that technology doesnot have real transformative effects.
good results also are being seen with students with special needs (see, e.g., the arrowhead (wi) schools).
some may work with students in computer labs, handling much larger classes than today’s teachers do (because the computers are taking over much of the actual teaching).
over the last 4-5 years i have taught under a web-enhanced model.
the icn is  a closed, aging network and the course offerings (and monies) there,  like everything else in the world, must move to the web.
for example, if we want principals to understand the power of blogging, one good way to do that is to show them (and maybe even sign them up for) some blogs that are directly relevant and helpful to their daily work.
[okay, calling these faculty members stupid probably is a little harsh.
unfortunately,here in iowa we are not keeping pace.
online learning opportunities for k-12 students are exploding across america.
in addition to creating statewide virtual schools, states are enacting a number of other policies to facilitate online learning.
the teams could be comprised as follows: four teachers plus a professor plus two programmers equals a workgroup; four workgroups per team.
several other districts are piloting it.
teachers and students who may be thousands of miles away or from different nations or cultures.
i was somewhat trepidatious, wondering how i might engage students as meaningfully as i had within a classroom setting.
the first few teachers will train those that follow.
the first three already are available: two more reports are coming out this month and next: be sure to tap into the incredible wealth of good information on the reports, research & tools page of the setda web site [warning: it’s easy to get lost in here for hours…].
terry moe and john chubb say… there is every reason to believe that technology will only become more  effective with time.
my preferred teaching mode is probably a blended approach.
today’s post concerns online learning opportunities for students.
two of the three blogs have been in existence for a long while; the third is a new blog by a faculty colleague.
julie and andy are talking with someone new on the couch and i’m soon in the hallway, left at last to collect my thoughts.
average gains in one year  for esl/ell students are 166 lexile points (compared to 27 points expected).
so the  question for school leaders and for policymakers is ‘how brave are  you and how visionary are you going to be?’
posted by scott mcleod on march 19, 2010 in leadership and vision, news and events, online learning | permalink | comments (0) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator, administrators, assistant principals, castle, college, colleges, dave meister, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational technology leadership, higher education, leadercamp, leaders, leadership, leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners, learning, mcleod, postsecondary, principal, principals, professional development ,school, school administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott elias, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, training, ucea, universities, university as part of our never-ending quest to tap into the potential of social media to enhance the practice of school administrators (and the university programs that prepare them), i am pleased to announce thatcastle has added three new blogs to its portfolio.
throughout our conversation, people are coming in and out of a door to  another room in the suite (reporters?
two hundred flvs students are in the game now.
if elementary students spend but one hour a day learning electronically, certified staff could be reduced by a sixth.
and we’re in conversations with our sponsor, the  university council for educational administration, about initiating a blog that  deals withschool leadership for social justice.
i had no idea in advance that i would end up having a notting hill horse & hound magazine-type experience (and, yes, i was hugh grant).
and we’re in conversations with our sponsor, the university council for educational administration, about initiating a blog that deals withschool leadership for social justice.
textbook publishers probably would oppose this idea.
are you literate  according to ncte?
[t]he pervasive sameness that the unions have always counted on will slowly  fall apart.
then i am offered a beverage, plunked onto a couch, handed a packet of publicity materials, and given 30 minutes to talk with julie and andy ross, vp of global services for flvs.
all are extremely similar to what other  higher-level readers in the class are experiencing.
fun with the pacific tree octopus!
it might be the world's most awesome video game.
whether we want it to or not, the paradigm shift is occurring around us  every day.
but public education network ceo wendy puriefoy's february 14 statement that "the new federal education budget is full of enthusiasm but lacks powerful ideas and transformative levels of funding" strikes home with me.
log-in and  other details at http://www.futureofeducation.
login and other details at http://www.futureofeducation.com/forum/topics/michael-horn-disrupting-class i don’t know how you get all of this great stuff arranged for us,  steve, butthank you!
[note to self: this might be the world’s longest url] some good thinking going on here thanks to mike sansone, i recently discovered the union square ventures blog .
- sophisticated data systems can put the spotlight on performance [and] make progress (or the lack of it) transparent.
if we’re honest with ourselves, we will recognize  that most of our school districts will never be able to provide the curricular  diversity that most of our graduates need to be effective digital, global  workers and citizens.
schools can be operated at lower cost, relying more on technology (which  is relatively cheap) and less on labor (which is relatively expensive). . . .
expected student growth in a year is 46 lexile points.
alvin toffler: if you're a cop with a speed gun, the car going by at 120  mph is business, the car going at 5 mph is education this macarthur foundation report is a must-read kids are using social networks to connect with their friends / peers they're also connecting with adults around the world in interest-based  networks educators need to teach kids how to do this responsibly and powerfully b/c  this will be the majority of their online interactions in the future adults are uncomfortable with the idea of being hyperconnected and  hypertransparent
added time for professional development, with proper  supervision and accountability, would improve teacher quality.
you also cansee the live chat and/or follow the twitter conversation and/or participate in etherpad.
now that the gaming engine has been built, flvs  will use it for other games/courses; i also suggested that flvs release it to  students to design their own games.
but we are trying to assemble a portfolio of blogs that meet the various technology and/or leadership needs of practicing school leaders.
are we trying to become the weblogs, inc. or gawker media (or education week ) of the edublogosphere?
and it’s easy to be afraid of something that you don’t understand.
it encourages teachers to see themselves as having a common set of work interests, as being equally deserving, and as sinking or swimming together.
for example, even though the article text and corresponding assignments are geared to students’ individual reading level, the overall layout of the article, font size, graphics, etc.
a task force stated that “teachers should provide a broader focus on scientific concepts and process in a 'big picture' sense.”
in addition to creating statewide virtual schools, states are enacting  a number of other policies to facilitate online learning.
we met in a computer lab the first 6 class meetings and met face to face about every third scheduled class.
do you have a curriculum that supports the things that will is talking  about?
“i didn’t know sasquatch was real.”
if we’re truly honest, we also will recognize that theiowa communications network (icn) is not a viable future option.
others, like iowa, have  state-led programs that help deliver some online courses to students.
expected student growth in a year is  46 lexile points.
as sameness and solidarity  decline, so too will their political power.
offer  teachers a vast array of occupational opportunities they didn’t have  before, encourage a level of entrepeneurialism and individualism among them . .
classes would still meet weekly
world see the flat classroom project 2006, 2007, and beyond will collected all of the work that got sent home in his two kids' friday  folders for a year; the stack was 2.5 feet tall
created byintermediate district 287 in minnesota, which heads up the  northern star online collaborative, the video features mike smart, 2007  minnesota teacher of the year, and a number of other minnesota educators and  students.
archimedes said “give me a lever long enough and i can move the  world.”
in an effort to support, develop, and retain novice teachers, the college of william and mary has partnered with the center for teacher quality to create endapt – electronically networking to develop accomplished professional teachers.
for many school districts, online courses are the only way to provide high-level classes such as advanced placement, foreign language, advanced science or math, and other courses.
when most people think about online learning, they think about adults taking online university classes.
thenational repository of online courses (nroc) also is doing some interesting work but appears to be complementing, rather than replacing, print textbooks.
the company recommends a minimum of 1 or 2  articles a week but there are articles available every day if desired.
it is a political process driven by power.
as always, we're interested in your nominations for interviewees.
registration is limited to 150 participants.
even after investing in hardware and software,  which are trivial compared to the cost of teachers, schools would have funds  from staff savings to increase teacher pay and to provide more time for teacher  training and planning.
disclosure: i received no incentives from either  organization (other than a thumb drive from flvs that contained the above conspiracy code materials) and was not pressured to cover them in any  particular way.
for $200 million per year, the department could create phenomenal, mind-blowing online multimedia textbooks that could be used by students all across the country.
the profession of the future will be a much more differentiated and  entrepeneurial one, and such a profession spells trouble for the unions . . .
powerful groups will try to block it.
what would our schools be like?
no one is teaching  our kids how to be social readers.
it  still took them 2 to 3 months to get comfortable with teaching this way.
michael also maintains avirtual schooling wiki or you can follow him on twitter.
and the most powerful groups in that process are special interests, led by the teachers unions, with a stake in keeping the system as it is. . . .
[ liberating learning: technology, politics, and the future of american education , pp.
com/forum/topics/don-tapscott-talks-about thursday, may 7th,  at 5:00pm pacific / 8:00pm
they dip in and out of the gaming engine throughout the year, assembling clues and completing missions.
here are some representative posts to get you started: racial achievement gaps and within-district funding inequity why do states with the “best” data systems have the worst  schools?
information and knowledge are absolutely fundamental to what education is all about . . .
issues 2 and 6  seem to be the result of her own decision-making, not any inherent flaw in  online instruction.
the first two teachers were ‘gaming people.’
all reports of the week will be listed under the reading category (and, in most instances, theresearch and evaluation category).
it is a fact that they are more powerful – by far – than any other groups involved in the politics of education.
xi-xii] posted by scott mcleod on september 21, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, our changing world, quotes, reading, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (7) | trackback (0) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator, administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, college, colleges, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership, leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners, learning, liberating learning, mcleod, political, politics, postsecondary, power ,principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university
are we suffering from information overload or information overchoice?
yesterday i  discussed21st century curricula.
as part of our never-ending quest to tap into the potential of social media  to enhance the practice of school administrators (and the university  programs that prepare them), i am pleased to announce thatcastle has  added three new blogs to its portfolio.
we now can live stream video from our phones; imagine a world in 5 years  where everyone's phone is iphonish justin bieber became famous by uploading his talent show videos to the web check out surfthechannel.com today, instead of writing a letter to the editor / better business bureau  / ceo,you make a video business is different today because people can form groups, allstate (and others) has hired people to monitor the twittersphere; don't  call; tweet!
if you know someone interesting that you think we should interview, get in touch!
students can have more interaction with . . .
added pay would help attract and retain better talent.
some may oversee or serve as mentors to the front-line teachers themselves.
can you please teach my child to read and write in the context of  ?
john does a nice job of looking at k-12 and higher education and also includes a post now and then on corporate simulations, serious gaming, and the like.
posted by scott mcleod on may 05, 2009 in news and events, online learning  | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: administration, administrators, arra, christensen,  claytonchristensen, cosn, cto, disruptingclass, districts, dontapscott,  education, educationaladministration, educationalleadership, grownupdigital,  hargadon, horn, keithkrueger, krueger, leaders, leadership, mcleod, michaelhorn, netgen, principals, schooldistricts, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod,  stevehargadon, stimulus, students, superintendents, tapscott, teachers,  techleadership, technology, technologyleadership, web20, wikinomics iowa - a robust system of online learning
[liberating learning: technology, politics, and the future of american  education] previous posts in this series education’s resistance to technology will be overcome
unfortunately,here in iowa we are not keeping pace.
what if every student, not just those in michigan, had to take at least one high-quality online course before they graduated from high school?
this 12-year-old kid can throw out a question to 1.7 billion people shirky: we are experiencing a tectonic shift in how we form groups and  self-organize wesch: this is not simply a technological revolution, this is a cultural  revolution.
here’s my favorite statement i made in the video (at 7:20): one of the things i think we have to ask ourselves as school leaders is ‘what’s our moral imperative to prepare kids for a digital, global age?’
the new york city and miami-dade school districts (as  well as the state of hawaii) are using achieve3000.
it used to be that innovation started with nasa, flowed to the military, then to the enterprise, and finally to the consumer.
similarly, four days ago steve jobs, ceo of apple, noted that textbooks as we know them will disappear.
[chart is from p. 139]
- education can be freed from geographic constraint.
i am sending this letter to encourage the department to make a relatively small, but extremely strategic, investment that would pay enormous dividends for our nation’s elementary and secondary students.
to be honest, the two most visible free online textbook initiatives still have a long way to go.
we are failing to teach adolescents how to use these technological  affordances in socially responsible and productive ways
the new york city and miami-dade school districts (as well as the state of hawaii) are using achieve3000.
i am very interested in the challenge of articulating the vision as well.
most  students spend about an hour a day working for the class, some of which is in  the game environment.
meta-analyses of existing research show that student achievement in face-to-face and online courses is approximately equivalent.
finally, can she really blame issue 8 on the fact that the instruction was  ‘online?’
posted by scott mcleod on december 11, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy,  and ethics, leadership and vision, news and events, online learning, our  changing world, planning and funding, teaching and learning, tech integration |  permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) the end of teacher sameness and solidarity terry moe and john chubb say… [i]n american education, policy making is not guided by what is best for  children or the larger public.
its enrolllment is growing at a pace of 50% per year.
and if you're not, how are you going to teach our kids?
teachers can be freed from their tradition-bound classroom roles, employed  in more differentiated and productive ways, and offered new career paths.
chris posted our discussion as a podcast in case you'd like to hear it: posted by scott mcleod on july 03, 2007 in higher education, interviews, online learning, quotes | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
the reasons are numerous for the popularity of online courses with schools, students, and parents.
best buy has 1,200 people monitoring twelpforce; don't call, tweet!
we are also interested in getting kids to imagine the future - what would they do or invent if everyone in the united states had a real high speed connection.
it  also has a far-reaching capacity tochange politics - and to eat away,  relentlessly and effectively, at the political barriers that have long  prevented reform.
i think you would take a look at much of what we do in our current schooling system and just toss it and essentially start over.
high schools, with three hours of usage, could reduce staff by up to a half.
as i walk  toward the elevator to return to my own hotel room, i’m left with one  thought:man, was that strange.
here’s my favorite statement i made in the video (at 7:20): one of the things i think we have to ask ourselves as school leaders  is ‘what’s our moral imperative to prepare kids for a  digital, global age?’
he's comfortable asking for help
it is simply to recognize the political world as it is.
there is some really important information and thinking coming out of all three of these channels.
as big as the numbers are, the return on this strategic investment would be huge.
technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrators, castle ,chronicle, districts, education, educationaladministration, educationalleadership, faculty, highered, instruction, leaders, leadership, mcleod, onlinecourses, onlinelearning, postsecondary, principals, professors, schooldistricts, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, students, superintendents, teachers, teaching, techleadership, technology, technologyleadership steve hargadon over at classroom 2.0 has an amazing set of webinars lined up for us this week.
scores of technology-based instructional programs are being used in schools throughout america. . . .
i think this is a powerful, transformative idea whose time has come
they will go to the ramparts to  see that technology doesnot have real transformative effects.
this stuff is here already; this is not future stuff will demonstrates diigo using this science daily web page annotated web pages, for example, are social reading.
posted by scott mcleod on december 11, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, news and events, online learning, our changing world, planning and funding, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) here is part 1 of my notes from our day with will richardson.
two of the three blogs have been  in existence for a long while; the third is a new blog by a faculty colleague.
i’m handed another publicity packet, do the quick meet-and-greet, and away we go… achieve3000 is a ‘differentiated instruction solution.’
can you imagine what a rich, interactive, media-saturated textbook a team of expert teachers, professors, and computer / web programmers could create given a year's time and $800,000 to play with (above and beyond their sabbatical salaries)?
[and  see] the same basic pattern as for virtual schools – which is telling, as  virtual schools and teacher identifiers have little to do with one another  aside from their impact on union interests” (pp. 138–139).
collaboration is everywhere.
i'm going to make you uncomfortable; you should be uncomfortable
- students can have more interaction with . . .
other districts are finding that online coursework can be an excellent option for at-risk students or credit recovery; for homebound, incarcerated, or home-schooled students; or for meeting the needs of students who simply may not be successful in a more traditional classroom environment.
how many of your schools teach kids how to read/write in hyperlinked  environments?
if anything is stone-cold certain about the current structure of power, it  is that technological change is destined to be resisted by the teachers unions  and their allies.
posted by scott mcleod on october 17, 2007 in communication, online learning, safety and security, tech integration, tech tools | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: administration, administrators, chat, education, educationaladministration, educationalleadership, facebook, hutton, law, leaders ,leadership, legal, mcleod, myspace, nsba, online, principals, richardson, schools, scottmcleod, social networking, superintendents, t+l, technology, technologyleadership it is my great pleasure to announce that dr. chris gareis and sheryl nussbaum-beach are the recipients of the 2007 technology leadership research award.
while both initiatives have potential, so far that potential remains unfulfilled.
open your brain, open your model of education
[t]he idea is  to minimize all sources of differentiation, because they undermine the common  interests and solidarity that so contribute to union success. . . .
sophisticated data systems can put the spotlight on performance [and] make  progress (or the lack of it) transparent.
this week's report is from education sector: here's a quote from the report: there has been no shortage of solutions for improving the nation’s public schools.
digital literacy/safety/security issues need to infuse everything; it's  not a stand-alone unit are our safety/security efforts both everywhere and nowhere?
[from education  week’stechnology counts 2008] drops as union membership grows. .
education has so far resisted this revolution, as we  could have predicted.
this  level of computer usage is quite feasible given instructional technology that  exists today.
since postsecondary students vote with their feet and their pocketbooks, the institution does indeed have to give students online courses if that’s what they want.
there are too many options available to students for anything else to occur.
all are extremely similar to what other higher-level readers in the class are experiencing.
this faculty member obviously has no idea that 1, 3, and 5 are dependent on  how the course and the technology were structured.
technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator,  administrators, assistant principals, book review, castle, college, colleges,  district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere, edublogs, education, educational  administration, educational leadership, educational technology, educational  technology leadership, higher education, john chubb, leaders, leadership,  leadership development, leadership preparation, leadership training, learners,  learning, liberating learning, mcleod, political, politics, postsecondary, power ,principal, principals, professional development, quotes, school, school  administration, school administrator, school administrators, school districts,  school leaders, school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod ,scottmcleod, staff development, student, students, superintendent,  superintendents, teacher, teachers, teaching, technology, technology  coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, terry moe, training ,ucea, universities, university necc -
i think i can make the first two and  would do the third one too if my son didn’t have baseball practice.
we are interested identifying educators who would be interested in talking about their vision of what they could do if every child had home access to a computer with a real high speed connection (think ftth
i hope you will be willing to lend your thoughts as well.
the student reading at  first-grade level also is reading the same content as her peer at the  ninth-grade level.
posted by scott mcleod on december 11, 2009 in 21st century, law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, news and events, online learning, our changing world, planning and funding, teaching and learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) here is part 2 of my notes from our day with will richardson.
can i find and feature an interesting education-related report each and every week?
i meet and  shake hands with ben noel, ceo of360ed, as he walks out the door.
this level of computer usage is quite feasible given instructional technology that exists today.
posted by scott mcleod on february 14, 2010 in blogging, gaming, law,  policy, and ethics, online learning | permalink | comments (1) technorati tags: academia, academic, administration, administrator,  administrators, assistant principals, bloggers, blogging, blogs, bruce baker,  castle, college, colleges, district, districts, edublog, edublogosphere,  edublogs, education, educational administration, educational leadership,  educational technology, educational technology leadership, higher education,  john rice, leaders, leadership, leadership development, leadership preparation,  leadership training, learners, learning, mcleod, michael barbour, postsecondary, principal, principals, professional development, school, school administration,  school administrator, school administrators, school districts, school leaders,  school principals, school superintendents, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod,  staff development, student, students, superintendent, superintendents, teacher,  teachers, teaching, technology, technology coordinators, technology integration, technology leadership, training, ucea, universities, university video - online learning here’s a 10-minute video i helped make that advocates for p-12 online  learning.
conspiracy code is designed to be  an integrated, full-year course / gaming experience.
some may work with students online but still do it in real  time.
florida recently passed a law requiring every school district to provide online courses (either itself or by contracting with others) for its k-8 students.
technorati tags: administration, administrators, alabama, ap, archimedes, at-risk, castle, creditrecovery, desmoinesregister, didyouknow, districts, dmps, dmregister, education, educationaladministration, educationalleadership, florida ,fvs, icc, icn, inacol, iowa, iowacorecurriculum, iowalearningonline, iowaonlineapacademy, kirkwood, leaders, leadership, mcleod, michigan, nacol, northcarolina, onlineclasses, onlinecourses, onlinelearning, principals, research, schooldistricts, schools, scott mcleod, scottmcleod, sloan, students, superintendents, teachers, techleadership, technology, technologyleadership, utah, virtualschools i love winter.
i think you would take a look at much of what we do in our  current schooling system and just toss it and essentially start over.
what her academic colleague somehow, incredibly, fails to realize, of course, is thatstudents don’t have to attend his institution .
com/forum/topics/don-tapscott-talks-about thursday, may 7th, at 5:00pm pacific / 8:00pm
although a few organizations (e.g., wikibooks or curriki) are attempting to create free online textbooks or learning materials, their reliance on volunteers has resulted in relatively little progress.
some  postsecondary institutions are going to realize that they must become more  responsive to student needs and desires in order to survive; others won’t  realize it until it’s too late and will disappear altogether.
posted by scott mcleod on september 19, 2007 in law, policy, and ethics, leadership and vision, online learning, tech integration | permalink | comments (11) | trackback (0) technorati tags: administration, administrators, education, educationaladministration, educationalleadership, facebook, leaders, leadership, mcleod, myspace, principals, schools, scottmcleod, socialnetworking, superintendents, technology, technologyleadership surprised?
it's a basic risk-reward equation adults are not having these conversations with kids, they're simply  blocking and/or ignoring the issue just like we have driver's ed, we need internet ed
subscribe via rss subscribe via e-mail follow me on twitter more...
setting up the course in a  different way might have alleviated many of her concerns.
flvs is a  data-driven organization and is committed to reworking the game/course as need  be to ensure students are both engaged and learning whatever facts they need  for success in the standardized-testing era.
get every kid/home connected (broadband) a device for every teacher a device for every (secondary?
the author goes into  detail regarding all of the problems that she had with the  course, including (but not limited to): there was a ‘lack of immediacy’ in communication; she was ‘only able to introduce students to a limited amount of  material outside of the textbook readings;’ it is ‘simply impossible to replicate a lecture online;’ there wasn’t ‘enough time or a proper forum’ to help  students ‘develop writing and critical thinking skills or to foster  original ideas;’ online courses are too big; she had no time off during the week like she would with a regular  3–hour, once-a-week, face-to-face class; she got too many e-mail messages from students; and she suspected her students didn’t like her very much.
achieve3000 is working with the associated press and now has an archive of over 16,000 nonfiction articles.
he also is director of theucea center for the advanced study of technology leadership in education (castle).
each team receives ongoing feedback from a representative from an appropriate national organization (e.g., national council of teachers of mathematics, national council for social studies), has an assistive technology expert to ensure content accessibility by students with disabilities, and has a project manager to keep the workgroups moving along.
but an important trend in public education has gone largely unnoticed in the cacophony of policy proposals: the rise of a completely new class of public schools - “virtual” schools using the internet to create online classrooms - that is bringing about reforms that have long eluded traditional public schools.
[t]eachers unions are steadfast in demanding sameness . . .
we gotta rethink "do your own work."
students take  about 90 to 100 hours to complete the game.
and all of this promotes solidarity, which is  critical to the unions’ ability to attract members, gain their financial  and emotional support, and mobilize them for economic and political ends.
the student reading at first-grade level also is reading the same content as her peer at the ninth-grade level.
the des  moines public schools also are exploring some online learning  options.
teachers and students who  may be thousands of miles away or from different nations or cultures.
i can guarantee that you’ll learn a lot and gain some valuable resources for your own work.
to recognize as much is not to launch ideological attacks  against the unions.
if we’re truly honest, we also will recognize that  theiowa communications network (icn) is not a viable future option.
- teachers can be freed from their tradition-bound classroom roles, employed in more differentiated and productive ways, and offered new career paths.
theunited states department of education found that four years ago  over a third of school districts already had students taking online courses.
login and other details at http://www.futureofeducation.com/forum/topics/michael-horn-disrupting-class i don’t know how you get all of this great stuff arranged for us, steve, butthank you!
entities such asiowa learning online, the iowa online ap academy, and kirkwood community college’s high school distance learning program all are delivering courses to students.
some  may work mainly with parents, monitoring student progress and assuring proper  student oversight.
again, my main thought on this is… stupid faculty.
you know i'm looking forward to reading that!
[liberating learning: technology, politics, and the future of american education, pp.
but online learning opportunities occur in the k-12 sector as well and are increasingly popular with students and their families.
florida recently passed a law  requiring every school district to provide online courses (either itself  or by contracting with others) for its k-8 students.
" post-gutenberg economics
setting up the course in a different way might have alleviated many of her concerns.
there aren't enough educators / policymakers that are looking at the  current system of schooling and saying "oh, crap!
this represents approximately 2% of the national k-12 public school student population and is a 22–fold increase since 2000.about 20 states have statewide virtual high schools that deliver online courses to students across the state.
if you’ve got some other suggestions for us, or know of a blog that might be a good addition to our portfolio, let me know!