- top a raisin or whole grain bagel with fat free cream cheese and thin apple slices.
sprinkle a whole grain cereal on top.
you will be less likely to fill up on only the  unhealthy items.
- moderation is always key, but planning ahead can help you relax and enjoy your dining out experience without sacrificing good nutrition or diet control.
ask that only half of the normal amount of meat is put on your sandwich.
look for low fat dairy snacks, fresh vegetables and fruits, a small salad, or soup.
- replace sugar sweetened beverages with water and add a twist of lemon or lime.
tip have children make a list of their favorite foods from each major food  group: fruits, vegetables, whole grains, dairy and lean meat.
- grab a fruit cup or fresh fruit pieces.
order the regular or kid-size portion.
if you are sharing with a friend or your partner, your portion size is automatically reduced and there is less available to eat.
- try a side salad with low fat dressing instead of fries and save over 200 calories.
bowls or tins are ok for storing leftovers, but be sure to cover them tightly with plastic wrap or aluminum foil to keep the food from drying out.
return to top healthy snack ideas for kids try these quick and easy snacks for during and after school: any cut fresh vegetable or mix of vegetables (carrot sticks or baby  carrots, celery stalks, cucumber slices, radishes, pepper slices, bite size  broccoli or cauliflower pieces) add a tasty dip, like salsa or low fat ranch dressing, in a small  container for dipping veggies fresh fruit washed and sliced apple slices with peanut butter fruit cups or canned fruit in its own juices dried fruit (raisins, apricots, cranberries) mixed with nuts low fat yogurt with fresh or frozen berries hummus with whole wheat crackers or pita bread whole grain granola bars or a cup of whole grain cereal in a zip up bag celery spread with peanut butter and raisins low fat milk and graham crackers or fig newtons low fat cottage cheese with pineapple chunks applesauce cups rice cakes with peanut butter or low fat cream cheese fruit leathers pear or apple slices with low fat cheese unbuttered popcorn these snacks are great anytime of the day or as part of a healthy lunch.
- boost the nutrients in all kinds of sandwiches by adding tomato, lettuce, peppers, and other vegetables.
- cut raw veggies such as carrots, celery, and pepper strips into sticks and store in the refrigerator add a healthy dip for a quick snack.
if you can't find what you are looking for or would like more information,contact us!
- grill, steam or bake instead of frying .
- say no to special sauces, cheese, mayonnaise, and bacon.
- always order a side salad.
visit this site or the university of vermont extension atwww.uvm.edu/~uvmext/nutrition/ for more information on food safety and reheating foods.
- spread 2 tablespoons of hummus on pumpernickel bread.
you can also try skim or low fat milk or unsweetened iced tea instead of soda.
there are also easy ways to include more fruits and veggies into your day.
did you know that eating more fruits and vegetables will help prevent and manage many health conditions?
they are also usually more expensive.
- instead of eating out, bring a healthy, low calorie lunch to work.
- if you can't order smaller portions, it is a good rule of thumb to leave at least one-third to one-half of the meal on your plate.
- stock up on snack foods while grocery shopping: cottage cheese, yogurt, minicarrots (peeled and washed), precut vegetables, fresh fruit.
discretionary calories limit to 195 calories/day sweets, ice-cream, alcohol, high fat and high calorie foods.
instead of a dinner entree, combine a salad with a low-fat  appetizer.
by giving them a choice, it's  more likely they'll actually eat the lunch.
those who eat breakfast are better able to concentrate at work and school and are less likely overeat at other meals.
ask that only half of the normal amount of meat is put on your  sandwich.
- combine 1/4 cup low fat ricotta cheese with apple sauce and dash of cinnamon.
don't be afraid to special order ask for your vegetables and main dishes to be served without the sauces.
- order the regular or kid-size portion.
think of eating out in the context of your whole diet.
supermarkets are also a great alternative to fast food chains.
knowing what snacks are healthy and nutritious is important.
- order a fruit cup for an appetizer or the breakfast melon for dessert.
but we can still choose to make better food selections.
easy ways to include fruits and vegetables into your day - microwave frozen vegetables such as broccoli, peas, or green beans for an easy side dish dinner.
- try a new fruit or vegetable recipe every week.
- instead of french fries, request a double order of a vegetable or a side salad.
- it is still important to make good menu choices, but sharing might make dessert (or something else indulgent) more of an option.
have a small snack before the cravings hit and you are less likely to pull into a fast food chain.
check out the rest of the website for more ideas & tips.
if it is a special  occasion or a fun social event and you know you want to order your favorite  meal at a nice restaurant, cut back on your earlier meals that day.
those who eat  breakfast are better able to concentrate at work and school and are less likely  overeat at other meals.
- fill up on fewer calories; add lettuce, tomatoes, and other vegetables to your sandwich and leave off the cheese.
french fries do not count as a vegetable serving and are very high in fat.
your risk for heart disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, some cancers, and weight issues can be decreased just by increasing fruits and vegetables.
- do not add a sugary, calorie-rich drink to your meal.
it allows you to sample something that you really want to have while also  helping you avoid the temptation to overindulge.
order sauce and dressing on the side -
if on an 1800 calorie meal plan.
single portion-sized cups of unsweetened apple sauce or fruit without  added sugar or syrup baby carrots with hummus or low-fat dip cut up bell peppers, broccoli, and cauliflower are good for dipping in a  low-fat ranch dip celery sticks with low-fat dip or peanut butter cherry tomatoes top sandwiches with spinach or lettuce, cucumbers, tomatoes, sprouts,  onions juice make sure it is 100% juice and give less than 12 oz in a day.
food amount needed serving size grains 6 oz (at least 3 oz are whole grains) 1 oz equals: - 1 slice bread - 1/2 cup cooked pasta, rice, cereal - 1 cup ready-to-eat cereal - 1/4 of a bagel meat and beans 5 oz 1 oz equals: - 1 oz lean meat, skinless poultry or fish - (3 oz is the size of a deck of cards) - 1/4 cup of cooked, dry beans and peas (kidney, black, pinto, refried, baked beans, chickpeas, lentils,
watch portion size at a typical restaurant, a single serving provides enough calories for at  least two meals.
compare calories, fat, sodium and fiber.
- slice bananas, canned peaches, or frozen berries on cereal, or add to yogurt.
return to top healthy snack ideas for kids try these quick and easy snacks for during and after school: - any cut fresh vegetable or mix of vegetables (carrot sticks or baby carrots, celery stalks, cucumber slices, radishes, pepper slices, bite size broccoli or cauliflower pieces) - add a tasty dip, like salsa or low fat ranch dressing, in a small container for dipping veggies - fresh fruit washed and sliced - apple slices with peanut butter - fruit cups or canned fruit in its own juices - dried fruit (raisins, apricots, cranberries) mixed with nuts - low fat yogurt with fresh or frozen berries - hummus with whole wheat crackers or pita bread - whole grain granola bars or a cup of whole grain cereal in a zip up bag - celery spread with peanut butter and raisins - low fat milk and graham crackers or fig newtons - low fat cottage cheese with pineapple chunks - applesauce cups - rice cakes with peanut butter or low fat cream cheese - fruit leathers - fruit salad - pear or apple slices with low fat cheese - unbuttered popcorn these snacks are great anytime of the day or as part of a healthy lunch.
- main courses which have been baked, broiled, roasted, poached or steamed will be healthier than anything fried.
have them choose  at least one food from the list each day.
share sharing entrees, appetizers and desserts with dining partners is a great  idea.
blend 1/4 cup each of plain low fat yogurt and orange juice with 1/4 a  banana and a few frozen berries.
often you can use less than is normally used and still enjoy the same taste.
return to top how to store leftovers - put leftovers in the fridge as soon as possible, but definitely within 2 hours of cooking.
- store leftovers in containers with lids that can be snapped tightly shut.
if it is possible, order a smaller portion (often called ‘half sizes').
- remove skin from chicken to lower the fat content.
portion size is important when planning lunches and recipes for your children.
- pick a baked potato (hold the sour cream) instead of french fries.
(red peppers, purple grapes, green apples, white cauliflower and oranges).
- tuck portable nonperishable foods in your purse, briefcase or backpack for on-the-go snacking.
some examples are: - dried fruit - whole grain, trans fat free crackers - whole grain cereal - fig bars - low fat granola - fresh fruit - 100% juice boxes - nuts - peanut butter crackers - raw vegetables - rice cakes - raisin bread - trail mix - fresh fruit is already packaged to go and always a convenient, nutritious snack.
- what to look for: - grilled, broiled or steamed - regular or junior size - low or non fat dressing - fresh vegetables and salads - unsweetened drinks snacks snacks can be a source of extra calories throughout the day but they can also be a way to fit in healthy foods.
leave a little extra space - about 1/2 inch (about 13 millimeters)
keep a supply of low fat granola bars and trail mix handy.
instead of french fries, request a double order of a vegetable or a side  salad.
here you can find healthy hints for different family situations, such as small households and school lunches for kids.
here are some examples of quick, healthy choices for a  breakfast on-the-go.
remember the big picture
voice: 802-863-7200 | in vermont 800-464-4343 | fax: 802-865-7754 | tty/tdd: dial 711 first vdh district offices | contact us | accessibility policy (pdf) | privacy policy a vermont government website ©2011 vermont department of health.
at the deli or sub shop choose lean beef, ham, turkey or chicken on whole  grain bread.
instead of a dinner entree, combine a salad with a low-fat appetizer.
- spread 1 tablespoon peanut butter on whole wheat bread and wrap it around a banana.
lunch and dinner whether we are driving between meetings, squeezing in a 30 minute lunch break or racing between kids’ after school events, there are days that we need to eat a meal on-the-go.
if you ask for sauces and dressings on the side, you can control the  amount that you eat.
pizza with tomato sauce, vegetable toppings, and low fat cheese is a great  treat for adults and kids.
spread 1 tablespoon peanut butter on whole wheat bread and wrap it around  a banana.
- plan healthy snacks.
grab a fruit cup or fresh fruit pieces.
stick to the light menu/make careful menu selections - many restaurants indicate healthy choices on their menus, and most sit-down places will modify menu items at your request.
- store large amounts of leftovers in several small shallow containers instead of one large container.
pepper, onions and tomatoes are just a few choices.
- try fun snacks like fresh fruit dipped in fruit yogurt.
stick to the light menu/make careful menu selections many restaurants indicate healthy choices on their menus, and most  sit-down places will modify menu items at your request.
- don't fill storage bowls all the way to the top; when food is frozen, it expands.
but we can still choose to make  better food selections.
always order a side salad.
if you ask for sauces and dressings on the side, you can control the amount that you eat.
return to top school lunches your kids will love what is a healthy lunch?
french  fries do not count as a vegetable serving and are very high in fat.
- encourage your child to choose their own fruit when shopping.
you will be less likely to fill up on only the unhealthy items.
this allows the food to cool faster and is also easier to heat up.
make eating out a social event, not an all you can eat event!
- add lettuce, tomatoes, cucumbers carrots, spinach or onions to sandwiches.
don't freeze any dishes that contain uncooked fruit or veggies, hard-cooked eggs, or mayonnaise.
order a fruit cup for an appetizer or the breakfast melon for  dessert.
- pizza with tomato sauce, vegetable toppings, and low fat cheese is a great treat for adults and kids.
combine 1/4 cup low fat ricotta cheese with apple sauce and dash of  cinnamon.
- choose fruit for dessert .
- dried fruits make a great snack.
- salads with plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables and light dressings will be better than salads with croutons, cheeses, meats and heavy dressings.
here are some examples of quick, healthy choices for a breakfast on-the-go.
if it is a special occasion or a fun social event and you know you want to order your favorite meal at a nice restaurant, cut back on your earlier meals that day.
lunch and dinner whether we are driving between meetings, squeezing in a 30 minute lunch  break or racing between kids’ after school events, there are days that we  need to eat a meal on-the-go.
some ideas: - slices of apple with peanut butter - cherries, kiwi slices, orange slices, cut up melon, berries - pineapple chunks with low-fat cottage cheese - seedless grapes - fruit salad - fruit leathers - single portion-sized cups of unsweetened apple sauce or fruit without added sugar or syrup - baby carrots with hummus or low-fat dip - cut up bell peppers, broccoli, and cauliflower are good for dipping in a low-fat ranch dip - celery sticks with low-fat dip or peanut butter - cherry tomatoes - top sandwiches with spinach or lettuce, cucumbers, tomatoes, sprouts, onions juice make sure it is 100% juice and give less than 12 oz in a day.
watch portion size - at a typical restaurant, a single serving provides enough calories for at least two meals.
look at what you usually order and see if you can find some better choices.
- stuff half a whole wheat pita with low fat cottage cheese and sliced peaches, pears, or banana.
here's a general guide for grade school lunch portion sizes: - two to three ounces of lean meat and cheese - one or two slices of bread or 1/2 cup grain or rice - one to two different fruits or vegetables - 1 cup milk or 6-8 oz yogurt (make sure dairy is low-fat) some ideas - sandwiches: lean cold cuts such as turkey or ham, with a slice of cheese on whole grain bread, topped with spinach, lettuce, tomato, or other veggies - peanut butter and jelly on whole grain bread - tuna fish sandwich on whole grain bread - wraps made with whole wheat tortillas, containing either lean cold cuts or cheese slices topped with veggie slices - quesadilla slices made with cheese and chicken or vegetables - cold strips of grilled chicken with honey mustard dip - trail mix made with cereals, nuts, pretzels, dried fruit or raisins, and a few chocolate morsels - low-fat yogurt with berries or try soy yogurt if lactose intolerant - low fat cheese spread on whole wheat crackers - low fat cheese cubes or low-fat cottage cheese - individual serving-sized packages of low fat yogurt, cottage cheese, or yogurt smoothies - for the vegetarian: mini-burritos made with rice and black beans or low-fat refried beans in a tortilla with tomato salsa (heated or eaten cold) - whole wheat pitas stuffed with fresh vegetables and hummus or cheese - baked chips, soy crisps, or pretzels are a better choice than regular potato chips or cheese puffs - water or drinks made with water and a splash of cranberry, peach, grape, or other 100% fruit juice are healthier than sodas - low-fat milk - homemade air-popped popcorn flavored with a sprinkling of parmesan cheese is healthier than most pre-packaged or microwave popcorn.
say no to special sauces, cheese, mayonnaise, and bacon.
sometimes fast food chains are unavoidable.
look at what you usually order  and see if you can find some better choices.
fried breaded chicken sandwiches are actually higher in fat and calories  than a burger.
for those on the go, we have tips on eating out and quick meals.
here are some tips to choosing the best meals at fast food restaurants: - start by visiting fast food websites.
- add vegetables to casseroles, stews, rice dishes, or spaghetti sauces.
- eat any leftovers within 3 to 5 days or freeze them.
if you can't get a substitute, just ask that the high-fat food be left off your plate.
the following shows what you can eat
- instead of eating french fries, bake or microwave a sweet potato.
other oils include mayonnaise, salad dressing, trans fat-free tub margarines.
pre-packaged items keep in mind that prepackaged lunches you can buy in the grocery store are  convenient, but are often higher in calories, fat, sugar and sodium then meals  that you prepare yourself.
mix low fat plain or vanilla yogurt with fresh fruit or cereal (like  raisin bran or low fat granola).
this information was adapted from http://kidshealth.org.
don't forget to check out the recipe section of the website for new meal ideas and healthy cooking and baking substitutions!
water is available everywhere and is good for you.
compare calories, fat, sodium and  fiber.
- enjoy baked chips with salsa.
here are some tips to choosing the best meals at fast  food restaurants: start by visiting fast food websites.
here are some helpful hints for making better choices: - expand your definition of fast food: deli sandwiches or wraps with lean meat (no cheese, no mayonnaise), burritos (no cheese, no sour cream), greek kebobs or pitas, and chinese steamed vegetables with brown rice (ask for low sodium soy sauce) are tasty, convenient alternatives to the usual burgers and fries.
do not add a sugary, calorie-rich drink to your meal.
- eat frozen leftovers within 2 months.
return to top eating on-the-go breakfast many of us skip breakfast because we do not have time to prepare a meal.
but breakfast offers us energy to get through the morning.
all the major chains post nutrition information for their menu items on the website.
all the major chains post nutrition  information for their menu items on the website.
mega-sized servings are most likely  more than you need.
water is available  everywhere and is good for you.
- blend 1/4 cup each of plain low fat yogurt and orange juice with 1/4 a banana and a few frozen berries.
avoid buffets all-you-can-eat buffets lead to overeating.
many restaurants are happy to accommodate your requests.
- many restaurants are happy to accommodate your requests.
return to top tips for eating at restaurants 1.
pre-packaged items keep in mind that prepackaged lunches you can buy in the grocery store are convenient, but are often higher in calories, fat, sugar and sodium then meals that you prepare yourself.
if you leave leftovers out for too long at room temperature, bacteria can quickly multiply, turning your delightful dish into a food poisoning disaster.
- supermarkets can also serve as a fast food break while on-the-go.
eat for health - home - smart shopping tips - healthy hints - what's in season - recipes - meals for a week - links, quizzes, tools
- add frozen vegetables such as broccoli, peas, and carrots to soups and stews.
pick a baked potato (hold the sour cream) instead of french fries.
or, separate your meal before you start eating (you can even ask for a  to-go container right away).
order sauce and dressing on the side
mega-sized servings are most likely more than you need.
if you can't get a substitute, just ask that the high-fat food be  left off your plate.
stock your car with bottled water and healthy snacks.
salads with plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables and light dressings will  be better than salads with croutons, cheeses, meats and heavy dressings.
have them choose at least one food from the list each day.
top a raisin or whole grain bagel with fat free cream cheese and thin  apple slices.
they only pack on calories, fat, and cholesterol.
- quick and easy tips - small steps for eating more fruits and veggies - how to store leftovers - school lunches your kids will love - healthy snack ideas for kids - tips for eating at restaurants - eating on-the-go - healthy weight loss quick and easy tips - skip buffets.
remember the big picture - think of eating out in the context of your whole diet.
main courses which have been baked, broiled, roasted, poached or steamed  will be healthier than anything fried.
if you are sharing with a friend or your partner, your portion size is  automatically reduced and there is less available to eat.
- or, separate your meal before you start eating (you can even ask for a to-go container right away).
return to top small steps for eating more fruits and veggies why fruits and vegetables?
- fried breaded chicken sandwiches are actually higher in fat and calories than a burger.
grilled chicken is the best option.
- ask if things are fried or cooked in oil or butter – if they are, see if you can order them baked, roasted, or steamed with less added fat.
to find out how many servings are right for you (based on age, sex, and activity level), go towww.mypyramid.gov.
if you can't order smaller portions, it is a good rule of thumb to leave  at least one-third to one-half of the meal on your plate.
split peas) - 1 tbsp peanut butter - 1/2 oz of nuts (a small handful) - 1 egg dairy and milk 3 cups 1 cup equals: - 1 cup of low-fat milk or yogurt - 1 and 1/2 oz of hard cheese (cheddar, mozzarella, swiss) - 2 oz processed cheese (american) fruit 1.5 cups (3 – 1/2 cup servings) 1/2 cup equals: - 1/2 cup cooked, chopped raw, or canned fruit - 1 small piece of fruit - 1/4 cup dried fruit - 1/2 cup 100% fruit juice vegetables 2.5 cups (5 – 1/2 cup servings) 1/2 cup equals: - 1/2 cup cooked, chopped raw, or canned vegetables - 1 cup raw leafy greens - 1/2 cup vegetables juice oils 5 teaspoons choose healthy oils such as olive and canola oils.
- mix low fat plain or vanilla yogurt with fresh fruit or cereal (like raisin bran or low fat granola).
get a fresh  sandwich at the deli counter or grab soup and salad at the salad bar.
avoid buffets - all-you-can-eat buffets lead to overeating.
it allows you to sample something that you really want to have while also helping you avoid the temptation to overindulge.
- make a fruit salad for dessert.
- at the deli or sub shop choose lean beef, ham, turkey or chicken on whole grain bread.
- add a variety of vegetables to pizza.
if it is possible, order a smaller portion (often called ‘half  sizes').
stuff half a whole wheat pita with low fat cottage cheese and sliced  peaches, pears, or banana.
- keep a supply of low fat granola bars and trail mix handy.
boost the nutrients in all kinds of sandwiches by adding tomato, lettuce,  peppers, and other vegetables.
fruits and vegetables children will more likely eat their fruit and veggies when they are cut up or already small in size.
if you're freezing leftovers, freeze them in one- or two-portion servings, so they'll be easy to take out of the freezer, pop in the microwave, and eat.
skip navigation - vermont.gov - home - contents a to z - site map - contact us - about us - - - quick links - hotlines - advance directives - birth, death, and marriage records - events - forms - health insurance - immunization - physician profiles - restaurant scores - rules & regulations - town health officers - alerts & advisories - children & families - data & records - diseases & prevention - emergency response - health professionals - healthy environment - local health - mental health - substance abuse - eating healthy can be easy and does not have to cost a lot.
- supermarkets are also a great alternative to fast food chains.
don't be afraid to special order - ask for your vegetables and main dishes to be served without the sauces.
moderation is always key, but planning ahead can help you relax and enjoy  your dining out experience without sacrificing good nutrition or diet control.
here are some helpful hints for making better  choices: expand your definition of fast food: deli sandwiches or wraps with lean  meat (no cheese, no mayonnaise), burritos (no cheese, no sour cream), greek  kebobs or pitas, and chinese steamed vegetables with brown rice (ask for low  sodium soy sauce) are tasty, convenient alternatives to the usual burgers and  fries.
spread 2 tablespoons of hummus on pumpernickel bread.
- when eating out, share an entrée with a friend.
return to top vermont department of health | 108 cherry street | burlington, vt 05402
it is still important to make good menu choices, but sharing might make  dessert (or something else indulgent) more of an option.
healthy weight loss eating 250 – 500 fewer calories per day from what you’re currently eating will result in 1/2 to 1 pound weight loss per week.
they only pack on  calories, fat, and cholesterol.
ask if things are fried or cooked in oil or butter – if they are,  see if you can order them baked, roasted, or steamed with less added fat.
by giving them a choice, it's more likely they'll actually eat the lunch.
if you don't know what's in a dish or don't know the serving size, ask.
tip have children make a list of their favorite foods from each major food group: fruits, vegetables, whole grains, dairy and lean meat.
often you can use less than is normally used and still enjoy the same  taste.
share - sharing entrees, appetizers and desserts with dining partners is a great idea.
get a fresh sandwich at the deli counter or grab soup and salad at the salad bar.
cut fruits and/or veggies, lean meat or peanut-butter sandwiches on whole-grain bread, low or nonfat dairy products.
you can also try skim or low fat milk or  unsweetened iced tea instead of soda.