she lived in paris for four years where she worked at the organization for economic cooperation and development and received hercertificat de langue française at the université de paris—sorbonne.
for the youngest children, the hardest part of learning a language is not about  the language, but about their ability to listen and focus on the class, and to  participate.
lisa: for adults, an authentic accent becomes harder and harder as you age, and the nuance of humor is a very difficult aspect of learning a new language.
q: what are the benefits of introducing children to foreign languages at an early age as opposed to later in life?
**lisa locklin is a french instructor who has taught and tutored french for  several years privately, through the acton boxborough community education  program, and at french in acton.
children understand intuitively that language is something to explore, have fun with and enjoy.
a community can inspire, encourage and help with what is a slow process.
they also offer  classes for children ages 18 months to 6 years in the boston area, including at  the barefoot books studio in concord.
it also leaves students with more flexibility in thinking, a greater  sensitivity to language and culture, and a better ear for listening.
music and silliness is always a great add when teaching kids anything.
young children are not inhibited about making mistakes, or mispronouncing words, or sounding silly.
today is unesco’s international mother language day!
singalingo, inc. creates award-winning, song-based materials for teaching young people language (songs, videos, books, and language cards).
one of my favorite learning games  is making a passport and “flying” to paris for a visit.
it exposes them to the notion that there are other places where people  speak different languages (and as they get older you can naturally introduce  new customs), and this opens their mind to things that are different, preparing  them for a global reality.
q: in your experience, what is the best way to get a child excited about learning a new language?
and younger children can adopt a “native-like accent” better than older children.
know, too, that kids develop language through relationships with a loving caregiver…not through videos and apps.
have you ever tried to learn a foreign language?
it’s great to add media as  a support, but studies show that language is learned from loving caregivers  much more effectively than from media.
lisa: by having fun with books, songs, games, attending  multicultural events and role-playing.
she currently offers mommy & me french and fun with french classes at the concord studio.
they also offer classes for children ages 18 months to 6 years in the boston area, including at the barefoot books studio in concord.
lisa: a second language enriches and enhances a  child’s mental development, and it has a positive effect on intellectual  growth.
know, too, that kids develop language through relationships with a loving  caregiver…not through videos and apps.
tags: children, concord, families, foreign language, learning, people,  studio, teacher tweet email
please leave a comment below and be sure to come back next week for part two!
add your comments below.
piña: research has shown that it is actually good  for the brain—improving test-taking, handling distraction, math, music  and even delaying alzheimer’s for truly fluent bilinguals the young brain is uniquely prepared to learn language in the early years.
please leave a comment  below and be sure to come back next week for part two!
here are just a few: it helps with language and literacy overall.
studies  consistently show, for example, that students who are multilingual perform  better on standardized tests.
foreign language learning: part 1 by becca fiske tue feb 21, 2012 9:00 am est view comments tweet email today is unesco’s international mother language day!
we spoke with piña madera* and lisa locklin**, two fabulous instructors who offer classes at our concord studio, to learn why children should learn a foreign language.
and younger children can adopt a “native-like  accent” better than older children.
q: why do you think it is important to expose children to foreign languages?
q: what are the benefits of introducing children  to foreign languages at an early age as opposed to later in life?
we spoke with  piña madera* and lisa locklin**, two fabulous instructors who offer  classes at our concord studio, to learn why children should learn a foreign  language.
studies consistently show, for example, that students who are multilingual perform better on standardized tests.
*piña madera is the co-founder of singalingo, inc.
lisa: for adults, an authentic accent becomes harder and  harder as you age, and the nuance of humor is a very difficult aspect of  learning a new language.
young children are not  inhibited about making mistakes, or mispronouncing words, or sounding silly.
**lisa locklin is a french instructor who has taught and tutored french for several years privately, through the acton boxborough community education program, and at french in acton.
tags: children, concord, families, foreign language, learning, people, studio, teachertweet email join the conversation!
it also leaves students with more flexibility in thinking, a greater sensitivity to language and culture, and a better ear for listening.
materials are currently  available in spanish and english, with mandarin coming soon.
it’s great to add media as a support, but studies show that language is learned from loving caregivers much more effectively than from media.
q: what do you think is the hardest part of mastering a new language?
it allows them to communicate with people they would otherwise never meet.
incorporate tickling, if possible!
she lived in paris  for four years where she worked at the organization for economic cooperation  and development and received hercertificat de langue française at the université de paris—sorbonne.
please read on for our q & a with piña and lisa, and come  back next week for part two!
lisa: children’s brains are more “open”  when younger—they absorb things more quickly.
piña: research has shown that it is actually good for the brain—improving test-taking, handling distraction, math, music and even delaying alzheimer’s for truly fluent bilinguals the young brain is uniquely prepared to learn language in the early years.
piña: there are so many good reasons to give kids a jump-start on learning multiple languages.
q: why do you think it is important to expose  children to foreign languages?
materials are currently available in spanish and english, with mandarin coming soon.
you will be sparing your future teen many embarrassing moments and  arduous memorization if you teach them now.
q: what do you think is the hardest part of  mastering a new language?
a community can inspire, encourage and help with  what is a slow process.
here are just a few: lisa: a second language enriches and enhances a child’s mental development, and it has a positive effect on intellectual growth.
we traditionally introduce languages at the onset of puberty, when we are distracted, highly self-conscious, and risk-averse.
one of my favorite learning games is making a passport and “flying” to paris for a visit.
piña: finding a community to practice with can be  hard, but worth the hard work.
piña: we have found that giving children language  they can use, and conducting their favorite activities in the second language  makes for an easy, satisfying transition.
lisa: children’s brains are more “open” when younger—they absorb things more quickly.
please read on for our q & a with piña and lisa, and come back next week for part two!
piña: finding a community to practice with can be hard, but worth the hard work.
music and silliness is always a great  add when teaching kids anything.
singalingo, inc.  creates award-winning, song-based materials for teaching young people language  (songs, videos, books, and language cards).
piña: we have found that giving children language they can use, and conducting their favorite activities in the second language makes for an easy, satisfying transition.
for the youngest children, the hardest part of learning a language is not about the language, but about their ability to listen and focus on the class, and to participate.
we traditionally introduce languages at the onset of puberty, when we are  distracted, highly self-conscious, and risk-averse.
a second language can bring them more confidence.
children understand intuitively that  language is something to explore, have fun with and enjoy.
it increases their future career prospects.
you will be sparing your future teen many embarrassing moments and arduous memorization if you teach them now.
q: in your experience, what is the best way to get  a child excited about learning a new language?
but for a child, a foreign accent and joking is easy.
she currently offers mommy & me  french and fun with french classes at the concord studio.
piña: there are so many good reasons to give kids a  jump-start on learning multiple languages.
lisa: by having fun with books, songs, games, attending multicultural events and role-playing.
a second language can bring  them more confidence.