yet, no parental  action has a greater impact on children.
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation:read more... be there for her!
e. to explore husbands/male influentials’ knowledge and perceptions of problems, complications, and emergencies in birth and early postpartum, when and where they should be cared for, and perceptions of emergency care providers.
w hy do you think some women deliver at health  facilities and others deliver their babies at home and/or with tbas?
for taking the time to talk to  me/us.
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and grief.
do you recognise yourself in any of that?
what are barriers to delivering in health facilities?
b.  to determine factors that underlie household and community level  delays in seeking skilled care for normal births and in obstetric emergencies,  particularly their own role but also the specific role of other household and  community influentials.
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
when are these arrangements made?
e. renkel it is much easier to become a father than to be one. ~kent
you want to love and cherish her  again.
read more... do you have to be at your baby's birth?
read more... dads and breastfeeding breast is best!!!
say: i’m also interested to hear how women around here learn about childbirth.
during a woman’s pregancy, does her husband do  anything to prepare for childbirth?
around here, are men ever away when their wives go into  labor?
but during those bleary early weeks,  when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out  where to start.
w hy do you think some women deliver at health facilities and others deliver their babies at home and/or with tbas?
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of  the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile  environment of the vagina.
focus group discussion guide: men interview schedule interviewer comments: interviewer code date district location venue time: from to focus group discussion with group of men of reproductive age respondent code: ethnicity: participants names: distance to facility w/ maternity: (less than 5km) (more than 5km) closest facility w/ surgical capacity: research objectives: a. to explore husbands' and other male influentials' motivations and barriers to being involved in: birth preparedness, promoting skilled attendance, using skilled care.
william klatte has written an insightful book calledlive-away dads.
when an affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
we can work this out.
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with  someone besides your partner?
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other  would be useless.
playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
yes, fathers are vulnerable to similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.
there are strong physical and emotional impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
now i would just like to ask you a few more questions about the time right after childbirth.
read more... dads play with kids can make a big difference
say: as you know women deliver their babies at  different places – at their own homes, tbas homes, and health facilities.
dads don't get a lot of credit for being soothing, nurturing types.
will your baby be born with ten fingers and ten toes?
men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
what can happen to the woman who has this problem?
read on for some advice and reassurance that  there is a sex life after baby!
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only the father smokedread more...
should they have this kind of discussion?
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility  to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children  from adult conflicts.
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed in this article.
relationships with children are much like plants, they need constant nourishing!
if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in denial or not paying attention!
the effects of divorce on children and how to cope
pending fatherhood can make you think about your family's roots.
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!
there are strong physical and emotional  impacts to a couple who experience miscarriage.
what happens if women and their families can’t pay these fees?
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your children.
then discuss it with your child or children.
i  really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day  left me feeling empty.
of  course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use  violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
however, when you are  away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily through the activities and time spent with your children.
the  professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence  suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is  as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.”
can men get  something like the baby blues as well as women?
instead of backing the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
who should initiate a conversation on this topic? 2.
you'd be odd if you weren't afraid.
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear,  you're only normal.
do you want to use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your heartfelt affection for your children?
good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their children.
how much influence does the woman herself have over where she’s going to deliver?
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your  shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy  development of their children and that positive father involvement has a  beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
two decades ago it was unusual for a  father to be there when his child was born.
and even through attempts at  reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
read more... why tell stories?
non-violent relationships: a role for fathers good fathers help their boys treat women with respect they  lead by example by respecting their partners, wives, and the mothers of their  children.
we must understand  these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work  effectively with fathers and families.
but they are not silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to fathers.
what kind of transportation can they take to get to a health facility?
do you think that women should go to a health facility after they deliver to get a check-up for themselves?
parental smoking is a significant issue.
that’s exceedingly rare.
d)   what kinds of arrangements do they make if they decide to go  to a health facility?
the birth - tips for dads if you aren't nervous about labour and delivery, you're either in  denial or not paying attention!
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no heart-to-hearts.
read more... it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
before the baby is born, you may find  that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that  they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
creative stories are a chance to build  a great and loving memory.
they can guide you where to go.
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new coping skills and improve how your family works together.
who else  is involved?
about  half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including  chromosomal problems.
if yes: do they have favorite programs?
dealing with miscarriage miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
in a study of  smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months  old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking  mother).
say: thank you for answering all our questions  about giving birth.
over the years  my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has  developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different  families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and  beliefs.
whether or not your children say it or show it, you  can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around  it.
it would be  helpful to hear more about these problems.
do you know what causes that problem?
at what times do those programs air?
read more... waaaaah!!!
so the short answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of the expectant mother.
say: some women experience complications in  late pregnancy, childbirth and the first weeks after delivery.
single, separated and divorced fathers
if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
yes, fathers are vulnerable to  similar emotions to a new mother, and there's some evidence that new dads can  become depressed after the birth of a baby as well.
ever felt that your anger was getting  the best of you?
here are a few ideas for making the most of your visitation: read more...
read more... is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a new single dad with children at home?
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the  effects ofdivorce on children.
say: i’d like to ask you about how women  and their families prepare for childbirth.
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a  daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing,  cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
how easy or difficult would it be to make these  kinds of plans?
read more... face your fear.
if the woman wants to go a health facility, can she go even his without permission?
counselling is a major factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
if she doesn’t go  to a health facility, should she go to a tba?
help your child cope with divorce many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
sit and read a book for 10 minutes.
here's how it's done: read more... activities with infants as your child grows older she will want different things from her  engagement with you.
fortunately, most blended families are able  to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
with time, you and your baby will develop your own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
will i ever sleep again?
whether it's you, your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial  elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
read more... infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief, fear, guilt, shame.
fathers play a critical role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from abuse and neglect.
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child  development as motherhood!
but it can also be your greatest source of pain and  grief.
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly  stand to have the old man around.
b)   do you know anyone who had that problem?
or maybe you've been dreaming about your grandparents?
it is generally accepted that children learn both good and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
if a woman in your community is  experiencing one of these problems, what can she and her family do?
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was  astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
wordsworthread more... which is better for your kids?
recent studies have linked environmental pollution or  excessive caffeine consumption to higher risks of miscarriage.
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope with the divorce of their parents.
all children deserve a chance to grow up unafraid.
that's one of the reasons we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
how much does it cost?
is it a topic they  discuss with their friends?
but if you ask most dads, you'll find that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own special ways to soothe their babies.
ask each of the following questions: a)   is there anything that they can try at home to solve the  problem?
read more... it's up to you!
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest  wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say,  "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?" read more... disciplining for dads one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate  discipline for their children.
should you stay together for the  sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your  kids?
there are many times i just  don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in  the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working  away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get  from my girls.
who helps in  planning and making preparations for birth?
in a study of smoking households in the midlands, uk containing infants under three months old, two-thirds contained a smoking father (many more than contained a smoking mother).
the list of potential adjustments is long, and  it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
some of the common findings among all of these studies are detailed  in this article.
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
c)   which health facilities can they go to?
how do men first know what happens  during childbirth and the time just after?
below is a list of some behaviors that children should be protected from.
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and  especially fathers.
are you concerned that your behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
but during those bleary early weeks, when your baby is breastfeeding around the clock, it can be hard to work out where to start.
read more... many things a parent will do affect how children cope with divorce.
how soon after the birth should she go?
after all,  we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in  the process.
things you definitely don’t want to expose your children to.
the professional journal, review of general psychology, finds “evidence suggests that the influence of father love on offspring’s development is as great as and occasionally greater than the influence of mother love.
the registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may threaten to tear your family apart.
and, when you consider the benefits, why not?
as a  dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may  open a floodgate of dreams.
what is the role of  the father who is present at the birth of his child?
read more... is playing with dolls manly?
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the  new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
what do staff at health facilities do to help women during delivery?
skilled care for obstetric emergencies notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: what do men know about obstetric complications?
you'd  be odd if you weren't afraid.
at home, this type of nourishment comes easily  through the activities and time spent with your children.
for example, one daughter may receive love best when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her something.
do you want them to connect one heart to another?
i’d like to ask you some questions now about why this is.
read more we have an explicit commitment to gender equity and the un convention on the rights of the child (crc).
children in blended families may at first  resist the many changes they face.
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they  can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
how soon after a woman gives birth can  she first leave her house?
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a poster.
men are even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses, partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
find ways to keep anger under control as you work with your  children.
are there exceptions?
will your baby be born with ten  fingers and ten toes?
and they love grandparents.
if a woman in your community is experiencing one of these problems, what can she and her family do?
if she doesn’t go to a health facility, should she go to a tba?
but when i got to be twenty-one, i was astonished at how much he had learned in seven years.
you haven't had a real conversation for weeks.
c)   do you know what causes that problem?
like any mystery, the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining, baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at once...
these days, for urban dads it's  more unusual if he isn't there.
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study,  published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t  “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a  life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
why? b) where can they go to get help in your community?
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word go:read more...
we must understand these hurdles to be effective fathers and stepfathers—or to work effectively with fathers and families.
are there  other plans that you think they should make in advance?
who should go with her?
read on for some advice and reassurance that there is a sex life after baby!read more...
why do  they like those programs?
there are many times i just don't enjoy it - it is a real hard job but this is more than compensated for in the love i receive from my daughters, the praise from their mum who is working away about the job i am doing and the hugs, kisses and other feedback i get from my girls.
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be  thinking, feeling and needing from you.
how are men, specifically, involved?
it seems some parents  can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for  their children.
daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
play is "the work of children".
is it a topic they discuss with their friends?
a good laugh helps break the tension.
how easy or difficult would it be to make these kinds of plans?
why? b)   where can they go to get help in your community?
perhaps you've been dreaming about sleeping with someone besides your partner?
say: thank you for answering all our questions about giving birth.
this could mean that you're worried that  pregnancy will damage your sex life.
communication channels notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: how do pregnant women get information and support from their household and community?
how are each of these arrangements made?
where do they usually get this kind of information?
c. to elicit husband/male influential perspective on preparation women and families now make for birth, particularly their current role in preparations/support and potential roles; feasibility and acceptability of birth preparedness; and to understand motivations of men to participate in preparing for the birth and ensuring skilled attendance at delivery.
it would be helpful to hear more about these problems.
what do family members do to help?
what are potential outlets for health-related messages, including  radio?
they can guide you  where to go.
in the early 1970’s, judith wallerstein, began to study the effects ofdivorce on children.
but they are not silly, unnecessary,  or insignificant to fathers.
your answers have been very helpful.
is there anything specific they want to know more about?
in fact, it may be a major barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
open communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
read more... prevention of hiv transmission to infants many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child  treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
however, when you are away this becomes more difficult to accomplish.
what are all the places for delivery women and  their families consider?
what is the role of the father who is present at the birth of his child?
read more... two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
trying to use the technique that worked for one child with the other would be useless.
a father is the first man his daughter knows.
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
understanding something about those stages can  help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually  just a part of growing up.
who else is involved?
how do men view early postpartum care on a routine basis?
if yes: what do they do?
who is the decision-maker  for delivery location and preparations for  birth?
say: this is part of a study to learn more about how we can help women be healthier in pregnancy and childbirth.
men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open  but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often  from their dad.
dad's at a distance - working away relationships with children are much like plants, they need  constant nourishing!
activities for dads and kids playing with our children is more important than we may realize.
this page contains resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
in her book, the unexpected legacy of divorce: a 25 year landmark study, published in 2000, we learn that children really aren’t “resilient” and that divorce leaves children to struggle for a life-time with the residue of a decision their parents made.
over the years my own understanding of the role that fathers play in pregnancy and birth has developed to become much deeper and more complex as i have served different families, each with their own unique relationship, culture, expectations and beliefs.
do you want those words to have real meaning to  your child?
yet, no parental action has a greater impact on children.
read more... 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner she is scared of me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen again -
understand how a marriage can be rebuilt after an affair.
what happens it’s time for a woman to deliver her baby but her  husband’s not available?
in fact, it may be a major  barrier in the work of building a strong bond with her.
lack of  sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers  and mothers...
the list of potential adjustments is long, and it calls for a considerable amount of patience.
divorce: your child's perspective children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during  and after divorce.
fortunately, most blended families are able to work out their growing pains and live together successfully.
i had phoned my  wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
who is involved in discussing  and making these arrangements?
early postpartum care notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: what are customary practices during the first two weeks after childbirth?
for taking the time to talk to me/us.
once the initial  settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
the various sections on this page  should give you some basic reassurance!
who is the decision-maker for delivery location and preparations for birth?
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means much more than the textbook definition.
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
dads love to have fun with their kids, at least the great ones do.
questions to ask: 12.
can men get something like the baby blues as well as women?
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but the rewards are great.
in some measures, father-love is more important.
situations of family and relationship violence impact couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
as a dad-to-be, your feelings of excitement, anticipation, anxiety, and worry may open a floodgate of dreams.
d)   what can happen to the woman who has this problem?
to help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
i have watched this closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been separated and preparing for divorce.
how  are each of these arrangements made?
but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose it...' do you recognise yourself in any of that?
how do men feel about planning for obstetric emergencies?
i  want to ask you questions about what men in your community think about this  issue, because we know that men are important in the family.
you can also find other  dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
every father faces psychological and cultural barriers on the way  to full engagement in a daughter’s life...
after another process called capacitation (an  explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough  outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization  and conception.
do you think that women should go to a  health facility after they deliver to get a check-up for themselves?
these days, for urban dads it's more unusual if he isn't there.
what do men know about obstetric complications?
what do tbas do to help women during delivery?
read more... marriage counseling illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting  — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
other than friends and family, how do men learn about other health-related topics?
for many couples, being together is what feels  right.
if you're like most new or expectant dads, you're probably carrying  around some silent assumptions about what it means to be a father.
can women leave the house whenever they want after childbirth?
if so, consider strengthening 'i love you' with the following suggestions.
it's you she wants in the delivery room be there for her!
sometimes the poorest man leaves his children the richest inheritance.
family therapy can help your family weather  such storms.
i want to ask you questions about what men in your community think about this issue, because we know that men are important in the family.
from the beginning, it’s crucial that fathers nurture a daughter’s image of her body as strong, healthy, capable, and active...
find ways to keep anger under  control as you work with your children.
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to  the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that  dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children  and themselves.
she's not made of porcelain!
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of  the date of birth.
will you love your baby?
these hurdles may seem silly,  unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
when an  affair is first discovered, both partners feel as if the world has collapsed  — you're left wondering whether your marriage can survive.
creative stories are a chance to build a great and loving memory.
during a woman’s pregancy, does her husband do anything to prepare for childbirth?
what would make it  easier for women and their families to make these kinds of plans?
only 40 of those 400 reach the vicinity of the egg, surviving the toxic environment of the semen and the hostile environment of the vagina.
are  there exceptions?
when a woman is pregnant, are men involved in any  discussion about where she’s going to delivery the baby?
read more... blockages.
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts and heal wounds.
and even through attempts at reconciliation through family counseling, the children have suffered.
girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to  soothe your screaming newborn!!!
there  have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on  children.
how soon after a woman gives birth can she first leave her house?
after another process called capacitation (an explosion that allows the remaining sperm to drill a hole through the tough outer layer of the egg), only one lone sperm reaches the egg for fertilization and conception.
whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges are similar...
once the initial settling in is over, there is the challenging task of building a new family.
will you be a good dad?
read more... listen to her - and then listen some more girls tend to be a riddle to fathers.
if a pregnant woman and her family have different ideas about where she should deliver or which preparations should be made, whose opinion in the family is the final decision?
this could mean that you're worried that pregnancy will damage your sex life.
facts about men's fertility men's part in fertilization is quite amazing.
if work takes you away from your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
children love their parents and want  to be with them.
around here, are men ever away when their wives go into labor?
about half are due to abnormalities in the fetus or the placenta, including chromosomal problems.
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you believe society expects of a male parent.
so here are a few tips to help you make it  through those (short) nights.
there have been many empirical studies focusing on the effects of divorce on children.
do you think that they should have this kind  of discussion?
of course, it's better if know that you've been a help rather than a hindrance.
dig where you stand - kids family history activity kids love talking!
be it gardening together, singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help them to develop into happy healthy children.
if yes: where are they usually (probe for migrant work, etc.)?
that belief is of little  use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
childbirth where do women prefer to deliver?
whether or not your children say it or show it, you can be sure they are deeply affected by the divorce and the struggles around it.
do you think that men would be interested in learning more about these issues?
a small percentage of men have a blockage in their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate fluid.
read more... fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters a lot for kids!
if the woman wants to go a health facility, can  she go even his without permission?
fathers play a critical  role in providing their children with safe home environments that are free from  abuse and neglect.
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for the sake of the kids.
around here, what types of complications can women have? complications during late pregnancy?
miscarriages happen for a wide variety of reasons.
the adjustments for dad, mum and kids are major.
so why should they accept it from any other man?
our best solution for this natural by-product of humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
then discuss it  with your child or children.
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in  harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
they let their daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the norm.
a small percentage of men have a blockage in  their ejaculatory duct that prevents sperm from getting into their ejaculate  fluid.
~mark twain father! - to god himself we cannot give a holier name.
it can cause an  exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in  turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
out of all these problems, which do you think are the  most serious?
stepfathering stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a  situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a  challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first, that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
b. to determine factors that underlie household and community level delays in seeking skilled care for normal births and in obstetric emergencies, particularly their own role but also the specific role of other household and community influentials.
open  communication, positive attitudes, mutual respect and plenty of love and  patience all have an important place in creating a healthy blended family.
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use  abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do  it
do women and their families ever make  plans in advance in case problems like these occur?
are you worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?read more...
c. to elicit husband/male influential perspective on preparation women and  families now make for birth, particularly their current role in  preparations/support and potential roles; feasibility and acceptability of  birth preparedness; and to understand motivations of men to participate in  preparing for the birth and ensuring skilled attendance at delivery.
what are potential outlets for health-related messages, including radio?
skilled care at childbirth notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: where do women prefer to deliver?
blended families stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm  now than ever.
many people know nothing or very little about the mother to child treatment programmes that can prevent babies contracting hiv.
the article below gives excellent insight into what your child may be thinking, feeling and needing from you.
discipline is all about modifying  behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
boys learn from their fathers to treat women with respect, not to use violence to get their way or solve their relationship problems.
but both physically and emotionally, miscarriage means  much more than the textbook definition.
are you concerned that your  behaviour towards your partner is costing you your relationship?
out of all these problems, which do you think are the most serious?
read more... can men get the baby blues?
is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married to the mother of his child?
remember that as difficult as it may be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
read more... individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is also very individual.
do not read objectives out loud to interviewee!
sex and the new dad how long until we ...?
questions to ask: 8.
read  more... do you use domestic violence?
avoid the bowl look with some careful prep and on-the-go recovery tips read more manage your portion sizes and take the following tips into consideration.
this page contains  resources for stepfathers and fathers in blended families.
that’s  exceedingly rare.
and most  of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
quick discipline strategies a good laugh helps break the tension.
say: as you know women deliver their babies at different places – at their own homes, tbas homes, and health facilities.
many dads i meet  share this mistaken idea: read more... what dads-to-be dream about could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be involved in your child's life.
you want to love and cherish her again.
what happens it’s time for a woman to deliver her baby but her husband’s not available?
remember that as difficult as it may  be to watch your partner or loved one in pain, most fathers find the birth of  their child to be one of life's most powerful and satisfying moments.
if a woman has a normal delivery and a healthy baby and feels well, should she go for a check-up for herself?
after all, we are trying to change behaviour and teach self control--we can't lose ours in the process.
contact us skip to content "nothing i've ever  done has given me more joys and rewards than being a father to my  children."
you could follow this up with them doing a family tree as a  poster.
bonding with the new baby
she studied a group of 131 children and  their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25  years.
do you want those words to have real meaning to your child?
marriage counseling or couples counseling can help resolve conflicts  and heal wounds.
infection, injury, congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
read more... how to share in your partner's pregnancy face your fear.
my wife had a baby a couple of weeks ago and, after the initial elation i am surprised to find myself feeling quite down.
do men around here ever listen to the radio?
but i hit her again...', 'i get angry with her and i totally lose  it...'
lack of sleep and the other demands of being a new parent can wear thin on both fathers and mothers...
who’s involved in the conversation?
e)   what kind of transportation can they take to get to a health  facility?
family therapy can help families identify and resolve problems.
situations of family and relationship violence impact  couples, but can be particularly harmful for children.
the  registration of births varies in different countries but a good starting point  for information is your midwife, hospital or delivery unit.
c) which health facilities can they go to?
read more... how to be more involved with your baby as a proud new dad, you want to do everything you can to be  involved in your child's life.
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than what anyone else tells her!read more...
counselling is a major  factor affecting women and their partners' choices regarding voluntary hiv  testing and subsequent participation in the programmes.
your partner comes home from work, makes a beeline for the  liquor cabinet and then sulks off silently.
is there anything else that you’d like to tell me/ us about your experience?
d. to explore husband/male influential support and perceived consequences of tba compared to care by a skilled attendant during and after delivery, and their perspective on the preferences of women now for birth attendant and birth location, and reasons why women do or do not use skilled care (barriers, motivators, willingness to change).
read more... children's expectations of you and your ex marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter  is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
that’s a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
when those negative feelings bleed over into the relationship  with children, the result is a fractured child/parent relationship.
managing your anger ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
in the  twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard  many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
it is generally accepted that children learn both good  and dysfunctional patterns and behavior from their parents.
read more... 5 myths of fatherhood
as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be  controlled.
infidelity: mending your marriage after an affair infidelity causes intense emotional pain — anger, disbelief,  fear, guilt, shame.
read more... how long until we ...?
are you  worried your children are witnessing too many arguments between their parents?
what  do women not like about delivering with a tba?
tobacco consumption was higher where both parents smoked or where only  the father smoked read more...
real dads play dolls is playing with dolls manly?
with that potent position of “first man” comes the ability to set  the norm of manliness for her—a norm that ultimately can be stronger than  what anyone else tells her!
what are the best parts about delivering with a tba?
what happens if women and their families  can’t pay these fees?
and yet dads often  feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge  getting there.
read more... i have been violent or abusive and i need help 'sometimes when we argue and i shout at my partner she is scared of  me', 'i slapped her once and i promised myself it would never happen  again -
communication  channels notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: how do pregnant women get information and support from their household and  community?
for example, one daughter may receive love best  when dad or mom gives her a very personalized gift—it could be a note, a  set of gel pens or a t-shirt, but she knows she is loved when someone gives her  something.
not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do pass through the same stages.
if there is, i can't imagine it.
questions to ask: 1.
next time you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their granparents.
but if you ask most dads, you'll find  that, out of love and sheer necessity, they have indeed developed their own  special ways to soothe their babies.
usually the baby must be registered within 42 days (six weeks) of the date of birth.
what do you think can happen once they get to a health facility?
it can cause an exceptional parent to lose focus on what is best for his/her children, which in turn can cause the children to feel mistreated.
do they ask women and their families to purchase any items or pay any fees?
if your vas deferens or epididymis tubes are blocked or damaged, they can prevent your sperm from getting to your partner's egg.
next time  you get them together see if the kids can organise a talk with their  granparents.
dads don't get a lot of credit for  being soothing, nurturing types.
our best solution for this natural by-product of  humankind's greatest experience is to talk to your partner, your dad, your  friends who are old hands at this parenting business.
for each problem ask: a)   have any of your wives or close female relatives ever had  that problem?
set aside time for yourself.
here's how it's done:read more... as your child grows older she will want different things from her engagement with you.
as we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
whether it's you,  your partner, a child or even a sibling or parent who's in crisis, family  therapy can help all of you communicate better and learn to get along.
if so, consider strengthening 'i love  you' with the following suggestions.
tips on stress set aside time for yourself.
that's one of the reasons  we know that the baby blues aren't exclusively caused by hormonal changes.
there are times when too  much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
but it is certainly much harder, and  it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children  that he needs to.
read more... ever felt that your anger was getting the best of you?
if there is, i can't  imagine it.
i look after my two daughters, aged five and four, in harare, zimbabwe - a very challenging environment.
now i would just like to ask you a few more questions  about the time right after childbirth.
common fertility problems for men blockages.
these hurdles may seem silly, unnecessary, or insignificant to others.
questions to ask: 4.
it is hard to imagine a more difficult transition for a child than  to be a party to his or her parents' divorce.
during the first  few weeks after childbirth?
fathers and smoking parental smoking is a significant issue.
maybe you have thought of something that we have left out.
like any mystery,  the relationship with our daughter can be frightening, exciting, entertaining,  baffling, enlightening or leave us completely in the dark; sometimes all at  once...
men are  even more marginalized and are not in a position to support their spouses,  partners, and sisters in participating in the programmes.
maybe you have thought  of something that we have left out.
whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are similar...
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best  to help dads bond with their babies.
“do no harm,” must be the mantra of every man in our society and especially fathers.
but, it may be a while.
is he a labor coach,  advocate or partner?
dealing with anger - your own and your child's divorce can bring out the worst in people.
many dads i meet share this mistaken idea:read more... could being a dad-to-be explain why i'm having such strange dreams?
your family can be your greatest source of  support, comfort and love.
what do staff at health facilities do to help women  during delivery?
things you definitely don’t want to  expose your children to.
family therapy can help families  identify and resolve problems.
do men around here ever listen to the  radio?
a health crisis, mental illness, work problems or teenage rebellion may  threaten to tear your family apart.
read more... families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems that create conflict and stress.
how do they help a woman feel more comfortable?
say: some women experience complications in late pregnancy, childbirth and the first weeks after delivery.
other than friends  and family, how do men learn about other health-related topics?
as  we discipline children, anger is an emotion that must be controlled.
when i was a boy of fourteen, my father was so ignorant i could hardly stand to have the old man around.
why do you think women sometimes deliver their babies at  home?
stepfathers face significant challenges as they move into a situation where they are often unwanted and unappreciated.
wordsworth read more... staying together for the sake of the kids which is better for your kids?
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply  involves creating a new branch.
it's a fair question to ask especially after you've been up trying to soothe your screaming newborn!!!
and yet dads often feel a significant need to get close to the new baby, but have a challenge getting there.
they let their  daughters know that they must not accept abusive behaviour from men as the  norm.
why do you think women sometimes deliver their babies at home?
family therapy can help your family weather such storms.
e.  to explore husbands/male influentials’ knowledge and  perceptions of problems, complications, and emergencies in birth and early  postpartum, when and where they should be cared for, and perceptions of  emergency care providers.
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting in an early miscarriage.
d. to explore husband/male influential support and perceived consequences  of tba compared to care by a skilled attendant during and after delivery, and  their perspective on the preferences of women now for birth attendant and birth  location, and reasons why women do or do not use skilled care (barriers,  motivators, willingness to change).
why do you think some women  deliver with tbas and others deliver by themselves or with family members?
understanding something about those stages can help you to understand that what could look like naughty behaviour is actually just a part of growing up.
if you feel a sense of unreality coupled with raw fear, you're only normal.
before the baby is born, you may find that many expectant fathers state categorically that breast is best, and that they are fully in favour of their partner breastfeeding for as long as possible.
read more... five commandments for today's family man two years ago, i was getting a little woozy as i stared at the  proof pages of a magazine i was editing.
read  more... children's ways of love individual children each have to be shown love in a way which is  also very individual.
they help their daughters to tell men that their father would never use abuse towards them, would not sanction their brothers or other relatives to do it
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death  or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro  long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and  life changing task.
if a woman has a normal delivery and a healthy baby and  feels well, should she go for a check-up for herself?
if a pregnant woman and her family have different ideas  about where she should deliver or which preparations should be made, whose  opinion in the family is the final decision?
sometimes the egg attaches in the wrong place resulting  in an early miscarriage.
dads love to have fun with  their kids, at least the great ones do.
a few arguments over money or late nights out, sure, but no  heart-to-hearts.
that belief is of little use once you have a stepdaughter or daughter.
say: i’d like to ask you about how women and their families prepare for childbirth.
say: this is part of a study to learn  more about how we can help women be healthier in pregnancy and childbirth.
what's that?read more...
try to agree with your ex the following.
f)    what do you think can happen once they get to a health  facility?
say: we talked about preparing for delivery, and about giving birth.
birth preparedness notes for the interviewer key ideas to explore: what types of routine preparations are made for childbirth?
in most men, 15 to 45  million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only  400 survive after a man ejaculates.
what are all the places for delivery women and their families consider?
fatherhood is just as essential to healthy child development as motherhood!
what do women not like about delivering with a tba?
so the short  answer is that most times, miscarriage occurs totally outside of the control of  the expectant mother.
if work takes you away from  your child more often than you would like, these fun ideas will help you and  her to have some special times, even though you're miles apart.
marriage is a contract between adults, and when it ends, the matter is between the adults - not, repeat, not the kids!
your family can be your greatest source of support, comfort and love.
do you think that they should have this kind of discussion?
say: i’m also interested to hear how  women around here learn about childbirth.
after all, we are trying to change behavior and teach self  control--we can't lose ours in the process.
two decades ago it was unusual for a father to be there when his child was born.
those ideas are rooted in your experiences with your own father and in what you  believe society expects of a male parent.
so, given  the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions  for tackling this important task successfully.
do you think that men would be  interested in learning more about these issues?
but not everyone feels the same.
many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with their children.
if you are like almost every other new father you are not alone!
how do they treat the  people who come with the woman to the health facility, like her family members  or a tba?
say: we talked about preparing for delivery,  and about giving birth.
that means you might have to overcome a common misperception first,  that of thinking of your daughter as delicate or fragile.
it takes special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
when a woman is pregnant, are men involved in any discussion about where she’s going to delivery the baby?
divorce can bring out the worst in people.
to  help you be the kind of birth partner a labouring woman dreams of, william  wade, a father of one, asked people who've been there to share their feelings.
it’s easy to get stressed as you juggle family, washing, cooking, cleaning, getting from a to b, money etc.
if you are violent in your relationship you are a perpetrator of  domestic violence and need to accept that fact and try and get help.
it's my child - and i'm proud to be his dad!!!
making the most of visits with the kids many divorced fathers are faced with the reality of visitation- an  often negotiated, mediated and all too brief time they are able to spend with  their children.
you can also find other dads-to-be in the same boat as you on our dad to dad bulletin board.
how do they treat the people who come with the woman to the health facility, like her family members or a tba?
for each problem ask: a) have any of your wives or close female relatives ever had that problem?
or maybe you've been dreaming about your  grandparents?
how soon  after the birth should she go?
who is involved in discussing and making these arrangements?
read more... tell your kids you love them!
you haven't had a real conversation  for weeks.
family therapy can help patch strained relationships, teach new  coping skills and improve how your family works together.
it seems some parents can’t divorce their bad feelings for an ex spouse from their feelings for their children.
ask each of the following questions: a) is there anything that they can try at home to solve the problem?
b) do you know anyone who had that problem?
healing family conflicts families can be torn apart by illness, divorce or other problems  that create conflict and stress.
are there other plans that you think they should make in advance?
registering baby's birth
is he a labor coach, advocate or partner?
i had phoned my wife five times that night, promising to come home soon with each call.
what would make it easier for women and their families to make these kinds of plans?
about 200 million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
but mom tends to have a better opportunity to get close to the new baby simply because she usually spends more time at it.
read more... children usually feel a lot of pain and emotional conflict during and after divorce.
you'll learn some things that will surprise you!read more... every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his daughter’s life!
infection, injury,  congenital defects, or avasectomy could cause this blockage.
there is growing evidence that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
and most of us believe that real men don’t play dolls.
is there anything else that you’d  like to tell me/ us about your experience?
what do they like about delivering there?
children in blended families may at first resist the many changes they face.
keeping your marriage strong takes time and investment but  the rewards are great.
the screaming and crying will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved rest.
so, given the advice from those who have walked in your shoes, here are some suggestions for tackling this important task successfully.
read more... how to adjust to life as a single father is there a more challenging transition for a man than to become a  new single dad with children at home?
instead of backing  the child into a corner, you let him know that hey, this is nothing serious.
read more... illness, infidelity, sex, anger, communication problems, parenting — all can contribute to distress in marriages or other relationships.
will labour go smoothly?
discipline is all about modifying behavior, not about anger or retaliation.
that’s  a question that occurs to many fathers and stepfathers of daughters.
who helps in planning and making preparations for birth?
how do men first know what happens during childbirth and the time just after?
in the twelve years that i have served birthing families in my community, i have heard many passionate opinions about the presence of fathers at birth.
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!read more... men are often tongue tied when asked to make their feelings open but "i love you," are three words all children need to hear often from their dad.
how much influence does the woman herself have over where she’s going  to deliver?
it takes  special skills and attitudes to be a successful stepfather.
this doesn't mean that old families are forgotten, of course, but simply involves creating a new branch.
i'm in control so you are safe.
meanwhile, here are our top tips for being the best possible dad from the word  go: read more...
why do you think some women deliver with tbas and others deliver by themselves or with family members?
for many couples, being together is what feels right.
read more... how your child's behaviour changes as they grow not all children develop and reach milestones at the same rate, but they do  pass through the same stages.
in many cases, visitation is very limited, compared to the relationship dads used to be able to enjoy, so it's absolutely crucial that dads make this visitation time the best possible experience for their children and themselves.
we can influence through our own actions how well our children cope  with the divorce of their parents.
so we asked some new dads and some of the experts about how best to help dads bond with their babies.
she studied a group of 131 children and their families who were going through the divorce process over a period of 25 years.
the worst of the calls involved hearing my youngest wailing in the background as my then six-year-old got on the line to say, "you're not even going to cuddle with us tonight?"read more... one of the biggest challenges for fathers is selecting appropriate discipline for their children.
storytelling made easy why tell stories?
should you stay together for the sake of the kids, or have a good divorce and set positive role models for your kids?
in it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on when you don’t know what to do next.
be it gardening together,  singing to babies, playing building blocks with toddlers or just throwing the  ball in the backyard, regular interactions between dads and their children help  them to develop into happy healthy children.
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your  marriage.
read more... 10 dad-tested ways to soothe a crying baby waaaaah!!!
the various sections on this page should give you some basic reassurance!read more...
so here are a few tips to help you make it through those (short) nights.
read more... stepfamilies, also known as blended families, are more of a norm now than ever.
below is a list of some behaviors that  children should be protected from.
where do they usually assist deliveries – at their own homes or at women’s homes?
but it is certainly much harder, and it is more difficult for a father to leave the kind of legacy for his children that he needs to.
why do they like those programs?
there are times when too much stress makes life really difficult as everything seems too huge and too hard.
we support the importance of mothering and mothers’ rights to children, and we highlight the importance of parents working co-operatively for the interests of children.
do you think that men should be involved in  these kinds of preparations?
i really did love the work i was doing, but not seeing my kids for the whole day left me feeling empty.
your dreams might also reveal that you are feeling resentful and left out as  all the attention centres around your partner and her growing bump.
they learn far more and far earlier than we ever  realised so make sure you're up to the challenge!
skilled care for obstetric emergencies notes for the interviewer
children love their parents and want to be with them.
read more... sometimes the poorest man leaves his children the richest inheritance.
i have watched this  closely the last few months as some very good friends of ours have been  separated and preparing for divorce.
read more... kids love talking!
the screaming and crying  will eventually subside and yes, you will eventually get some well deserved  rest.
myths surrounding children and divorce
do you want to  use them to develop a level of intimacy between you that communicates your  heartfelt affection for your children?
what kinds of arrangements do they make if they decide to go to a health facility?
at least one-third of all children will be part of a stepfamily before they reach age 18.
~ bill cosby agenda research afi research maternal health - male fgd questionnaire maternal health - male focus group discussion questionnaire tweet focus group discussion with group of men of reproductive  age respondent code: distance to facility w/ maternity: (less than 5km)  (more than 5km) closest facility w/ surgical capacity: research objectives: a.  to explore husbands' and other male influentials' motivations and  barriers to being involved in: birth preparedness, promoting skilled  attendance, using skilled care.
where do they usually assist deliveries – at their own homes or at  women’s homes?
daughters and single dads whether you are divorced or separated and the custodial parent, or  whether you are a widowed dad, the challenges of raising daughters are  similar...
about 200  million sperm are mixed with semen to form ejaculate.
the issue is whether or not divorced couples can raise children  who fare better in life as adults than unhappy couples who stay together for  the sake of the kids.
there is growing evidence  that fathers influence the healthy development of their children and that  positive father involvement has a beneficial effect on kids and their dads.
read more... dads hold up half the sky fathers parent differently from mothers and that difference matters  a lot for kids!
in  it, he suggests five beneficial actions you can take: goals you can focus on  when you don’t know what to do next.
whether you lose your spouse and the mother of your kids to death or because of a divorce and/or abandonment or your partner working away fro long periods at a time, adjusting to the new reality of things is a major and life changing task.
married fathers is it impossible for a father to be a good one if he is not married  to the mother of his child?
even in times of great stress, parents have a responsibility to conduct their legal affairs in a manner that will protect their children from adult conflicts.
with time, you and your baby will develop your  own special relationship - one that's just as vital as the mother-baby bond.
do women and their families ever make plans in advance in case problems like these occur?
read  more... five worries about fathering our daughters
when your new baby makes its appearance, it can be a challenge for both mom and dad to connect with the new baby.
raising your daughter every father and stepfather can make a huge difference in his  daughter’s life!
do they ask women and their families to purchase any items or pay any  fees?
if yes: where are they usually (probe for migrant work,  etc.)?
but an affair doesn't have to mean the end of your marriage.
at least one-third of all children will be part of a  stepfamily before they reach age 18.
questions to ask: 14.
do you think that men should be involved in these kinds of preparations?
in most men, 15 to 45 million of these sperm are healthy enough to fertilize an egg, although only 400 survive after a man ejaculates.
during the first few weeks after childbirth?