date: thu, 29 feb 1996 17:52:32 -0600
i only have a couple of small  yellowish patches left.
counting hours now, i know it was the 48 hour post shot  reaction.
you only live once!date: thu, 1 feb 1996 16:52:20 -0600
i don't think it's very pleasureable to "spout," altho it may be necessary.
they're  playing different games with different folk.
it's very black and kind of yucky, and it makes the bath water smell like a roofing job on a hot summer day, but it really makes my skin feel good.
i never had that when i was a kid, so your daughter  is one of the lucky ones.
from:  ralph subject: more tar madness my doctor (actually his associate, whom i've not met face-to-face) told me  that no one really knows why it works.
if an "antimitotic" agent can slow down this process, it is conceivable that it can provide some benefit.
kris, though i do try to limit my contact with people who annoy or anger me  (i'll be working at home more now in part because i'm in a cubicle surrounded  by inanity all day), i like some contact and support.
and even this business: which part of the immune system -- humoral? / cellular? -- is involved in  this or that expression of the eczematous state is unfortunately not as tidy as  simple assignments would suggest:
this discussion on anger intrigues me since i have come to believe that venting anger more easily may very well increase the level of anger one attains more easily, and, therefore a "ventor" of anger may actually operate at a higher anger level most of the time because becoming angry happens more easily and venting is a pleasureable, ok activity if that makes sense to anyone else.
there's another dimension to the itching in infancy which i forgot to mention in my last message.
re: is rationing rational?
when i was  flaring so bad when i first started allergy shots, it was always about 48 hours  after a shot.
for girls, it is even harder because our culture judges females on  our looks 99%. .
my son's  eczema cleared up after the two-week treatment, which we performed assiduously,  and has never returned!
the skin in these regions has  become discolored.
wayne 8.5/10 date: thu, 22 feb 1996 11:47:17 pst from: wren subject: is rationing rational?
and, even here,  the degree of the problem is, as we see, quite dependant on the individual who  presents with the problem.
does the tar stick to your skin?
date: thu, 22 feb 1996 18:46:16 est from: wayne subject:
this delayed response -- it takes the  t-cells (they're generals) "time" to communicate down the ranks to  effector molecules (they're the grunts who do the fighting) -- is a sign that  the skin is protecting itself.
for me, it's most important to feel  "clean", dryness is lower priority.
i'll ask my doctor about the zetar.
you must  not be an inveterate cortisone user.
i do this in private (unless i'm at the therapy group) because other people usually feel scared or disturbed by it.
it would be something clean and convenient to add to  our bath water.
according to this line of thinking, the young child's sensory apparatus is overwhelmed with the itching, and doesn't process other sensations like hunger very well.
from: shelley subject: re: wet/dry/grease i have full body eczema, wren.
maybe eczema is not considered a "hot" area of research, so no one has bothered to try finding the answer to that question.
has anybody else had eczema in the ear canals?
zetar's label states that the tar is dissolved in polysorbates.
perhaps a number of medical  people don't really appreciate that; maybe they're accustomed to needing a  staph explosion or a herpetic crisis to warrant "medical advice."
i take soaking baths (20 to 40 mins) whenever i get that dry-all-over  feeling.
facts and ideas don't always match,  however.
nadia and i were in a bakery, where one of the friendly clerks struck up a conversation with nadia.
tylenol for kids might help take the edge off your child's nerves--i used to take heavy duty transquilizers--a mere palliative but it makes one so dopey and lethargic.
the main reason that he's doing a houdini is because it  itches.
from: ralph subject: tar and other speculative thoughts
it didn't do much for me and i must say that i was glad when i stopped using it.
ezra has it quite bad on his face, mostly on his cheeks and a little on his forehead, neck and chest.
i skip breakfast entirely now becuz there's just not much to  bother with anymore.
from: shelley subject: re: food richard: i am extremely allergic to nuts and seeds, and avoid or reduce intake of caffeine, sugar, salt, citrus, and dairy products to keep my condition under control.
what worked best  for me is when i learned to tuck my hands under my butt and pretend they were  paralyzed.
date: tue, 20 feb  1996 14:09:20 -0800 from: ann subject: misc.
re[2]: is rationing rational?
i've used phisoderm for soaping, cetaphil lately, and some bar soaps that are gentle without perfumes.
date: thu, 1 feb 1996 23:11:21 est from: gilbert  subject: re: molluscum hi, shelley.
i also think the vibration of the razor serves as a scratch  substitute and i am experimenting with this on the arms too.
i soak my hands in  this stuff, mixed into a basin of warm water, and it helps a great deal.
i keep trying to debride them, esp right after a shower because the skin is softened.
i agree with ralph and feel that too many people (including doctors) spend  too much time pussy-footing around with the treatment of ad in infants.
i feel like ingrid bergman, who when she  was told she had lung cancer, kept right on smoking to the end!
purportedly, einstein once said we need to make everything as simple as we  possibly can, but no simpler.
perhaps you would agree that the psyche is a big factor in eczema  now that you've come back to the ratrace.
this consists of using a soft, padded bat or a  pillow to beat something like a bed or a couch.
date: thu, 29 feb 1996 10:39:46 -0500
i have used various forms of  tar since i was a child, and this stuff, though smelly, is in a different  league from the others.
what works for me is taking a shower once a day and totally greasing up after that.
when so, it's probably because there (is/was) a follicular conjunctivitis that's claimed squatter's rights and become chronic -- and sometimes secretively so.
have you found that your eczema improves when you vent anger, or perhaps the contrary, have you found that your skin is worse when you don't vent?
but, the general pattern is that we should not be surprised to find a patient presenting with atopic dermatitis who also has food allergies, or asthma, or "hay fever".
i also shower at least once daily, sometimes more when i'm having more  problems.
i also have the feeling that there are two types of eczema.
after soak i grease up.
for how much time can you tolerate it?date: thu, 1 feb 1996 23:11:21 est from: gilbert subject: re: molluscum hi, shelley.
this  is not casual contact, it's outright forceful blood-to-blood impregnation and  is indistinguishable from other impregnations such as the sharing of  "dirty needles.
you say they're supposed to just curl up and die by themselves, but mine never did.
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 16:50:41 -0600
sometimes blowing it off takes the pressure off the "cooker."
and i am an avid bread  and ice cream fan!
i'm especially interested in those of you who have large areas  of eczema.
when the hand coverings were new and i couldn't itch  effectively, i used to scratch as far as possible using my toenails!
then there's something of a vicious  cycle with "reoccurrences" of the "same."
i can testify that not much happens to improve eczema once a woman hits  menopause---it just means you have some more miserable symptoms to contend  with.
the eye doctor is the one who told me it was a  virus and if not removed could cause blindness.
maybe it was the placebo  effect or the stress and crying i mentioned above, but skin and sinuses got  better and the lymph node went way down.
by the way, i don't think the smell is noticable to anyone else.
i don't think it's very pleasureable to  "spout," altho it may be necessary.
has she been using cortisone ?
as a health officer in the field of infectious disease i  engage in both clinical and research areas of immuno(in)competence and,  especially, aids.
but the washes are time consuming and can precipitate nose bleeds.
she still suffers almost constant itching, flaking, thin skin and naturally the scratches she inflicts on herself.
at night i wash my face with cetaphil liquid cleanser and put eucerin creme all over.
at  that point, we have an issue that needs to be and, probably, can be addressed.
these are slippery slopes -- for lay people and for physicians; they're  slippery for basic scientists as well: immunologists and bench scientists get  confounded too.
hence, communication.
when i'm wet and then creamed up, i feel more "loose" with more freely moving joints--if that makes any sense.
comments kristen, the saline nasal washes are intended to clear out secretions in the hope of preventing an infection in the sinuses.
but because it was "just a skin" problem , we missed out  on whatever counseling was available for those with more serious handicaps.
date: thu, 29 feb  1996 10:39:46 -0500
moisturizers equally so.
am constantly "soaking" my head in the shower  (along with the rest of me) every nite.
date: tue, 27 feb 1996 17:44:03 -0600 from: kristen subject:
unfortunately, there seem to be more things that have a negative effect than there are things that have a positive effect.
from: kristen subject: houdini hi eric, believe it or not, we were all children at one time!
and makes me wonder how i got it.
we have had to devise various ways to keep him from scratching.
many  infants with atopic dermatitis are clear of it by their second birthday but to  wait a year and a half would be a little unfair to the child.
i also became acquainted with someone who does psychic healing.
i say  "associated" because oftentimes there are several things at play  here.
milk was substituted.
is it strictly hands on with nothing to lubricate?
i'm not interested in someone's latest foray to the grocery store, if you know what i mean.
i don't like this as much because the oil seems to be counter-productive for me, often causing additional itchiness.
surely  someone could take a look at a *known* therapeutic agent and figure out why it  works...
finally, i just got tired of it.
i limit myself to a few good friends and superficial contacts with others, but i'm more interested in the life of the mind than in what passes for conversation on a daily basis--most of it less than profound.
and i want to spend my time on personal pursuits in the time i have left.
most meat makes be gag if i have to fix my own, so i stick with  veggie casseroles and vegburgers, things like that.
if an  "antimitotic" agent can slow down this process, it is conceivable  that it can provide some benefit.
she also said that i  probably have some blocked emotions that can be adding to my condition.
ann and eczema community: re swollen lymph nodes...mine swell when i have staph infections.
we've always just been taught a "lady" doesn't show  it.
maybe ignorance,  too.
if i had a fortune for demonstrating  a case of casual-contact infection from aids, i'd remain penniless for it.
have you found that your eczema improves when you vent anger, or perhaps the  contrary, have you found that your skin is worse when you don't vent?
i think the homeopathic stuff may  have strengthened nadia's immune system, because after the regimine was  complete she almost never had staph infections.
since i have this drat eczema virtually all over, i oil myself up several  times a day, and try to shower only every other day to keep from drying out.
later i learned to touch my fingertips together one by one in a slow repetitive pattern that was hypnotic and calming.
wet and  dry wren, i am sometimes affected 95% of skin surface, now it is primarily dry  over 50% of surface (i saw a tip from the national jewish center that said that  the palm of the hand is about one percent of body...
date: tue, 20 feb 1996 14:09:20 -0800 from:
for how much time can you  tolerate it?
i don't  emote easily, though i speak my mind more frequently and vehemently than i did  earlier in life.
i think your dermatologist, however, communicated well in referring you on to an eye specialist.
of course, i'm not saying that hands are the culprit, but whenever i think  of routes by which skin infections get launched, i always think: hands.
the buzz from itching there (with q tips) is so intense, i have come very close to blacking out.
i 'm  hoping that as my condition improves the red-brown will revert to my god-given  olive white-yellow color.
we say to the patient, "come back in  two days so i can read your skin."
anger has never been an acceptable emotion for women to show--doesn't mean  we don't have it.
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 20:10:29 -0500
it was quite expensive eating that kind of diet.
i use cetaphil bar soap on underarms, crotch, and feet.
i want it back, damn it.
i've gone through lots of periods of "hibernation" over the years.
if the active ingredient(s) were known, i suspect we wouldn't have to use smelly black stuff.
one's level of anger may be  commensurate with an incident; because sometimes anger is very justified.
no one has ever mentioned it to me.
date: thu, 22 feb 1996 18:46:16 est from: wayne subject: wet and dry wren, i am sometimes affected 95% of skin surface, now it is primarily dry over 50% of surface (i saw a tip from the national jewish center that said that the palm of the hand is about one percent of body...don't try to do this while you are waiting in line at the grocery store....).
sometimes i'm under the shower long enough to feel "soaked," and then i make sure i cream up all over as much as possible.
though atopic dermatitis is a disease state, the cellular immune response is exactly what we try to elicit when we test folk for tb: we want the cellular branch of the is to mount a response.
and even this business: which part of the immune system -- humoral? / cellular? -- is involved in this or that expression of the eczematous state is unfortunately not as tidy as simple assignments would suggest: yes, eczema
i skip breakfast entirely now becuz there's  just not much to bother with anymore.
i put eucerin creme on  all over after drying.
i don't have large areas of eczema (yet - knock wood), but all of my skin can get itchy and uncomfortable if i shower too often.
while we're definitely dealing with physical forces (heredity; repetitive-use stress; environmental agents -- you name it!), there are psychological forces and "tempers" that confound clinician and patient alike.
from:  kristen subject: re: is rationing rational?
i've gone through lots  of periods of "hibernation" over the years.
as a health officer in the field of infectious disease i engage in both clinical and research areas of immuno(in)competence and, especially, aids.
copyright of the individual messages rests with those who posted them.
since then i get them removed  within 6 months, but they've never gone away by themselves.
water gives me the most relief--comfort level is very important to me  so that i can concentrate on other things.
the skin in these regions has become discolored.
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 14:11:33 est from: eric subject:
eczema, however, in the context of its  effect, can be a cause for infection insofar as its lesions can lead to a  violation of skin integrity, whether that violation is primary or secondary.
i let him give me a couple of sessions.
more than about twice a week tends to cause discomfort.
perhaps you would agree that the psyche is a big factor in eczema now that you've come back to the ratrace.
i think this form of emulsion (zetar, the one with "polysorbates") might be relatively new.
after that,  it was like eating plain grain; it would all crumble and fall apart in your  hands.
you said it took 2 days for  the skin immune system to react to allergens (as in a tb test).
i guess no one can win!
nadia accepted the woman's pity without  going into explanation--even if for a different reason.
from: shelley subject: re: eric and ezra i was struck by your reference to houdini.
for me, it's most important to feel "clean", dryness is lower priority.
blepharitis (i.e., inflammation of the eyelids) and  conjunctivitis can sometimes be associated with molluscum.
i hope that i'm not being too outspoken but i've seen too many children (and indirectly, their parents) suffer unneccessarily from this attitude (which basically arises from ignorance).
think i'll try bathing more often, and perhaps try out the tar  treatment.
[if it's atopic dermatitis!] is -- as a lesion -- caused by the "cellular" branch of the immune system.
if you are interested in the bar soaps, i'll check on  the names.
i remember using tar in my late teens and early 20s--detested the smell, was sure everyone could tell it and would think i had a bad case of body odor.
veg pizza is a big favorite--no grease.
my derm doctor suggested i try this to help exfoliate.
i also wash my hair in the  shower, which then becomes a 15-20 minute job.
i'm wondering if i was better able to express  my sadness and pain, somehow that might lead to an overall release and possibly  skin improvement.
being included is the last thing on  my mind.
that can be anything from frustrating people to irritating  situations.
my son was small for his age, eating very little, at the time we finally had him seen by the dermatologist.
i know it's  difficult for very young children to have any self-control.
i keep trying to debride them, esp  right after a shower because the skin is softened.
they're playing different games with different folk.
i feel like ingrid bergman, who when she was told she had lung  cancer, kept right on smoking to the end!
and, though  we usually don't realize it, our hands are all over our faces.
date: tue, 27 feb 1996 20:28:48 +0800 from: dev subject:
and with destruction of the collagen and subsequent diminished muscle mass, pver time can one expect to lose ambulatory status or use of limbs?
i used to like cereal, but that's impractical.
lowe and his group showed  that coal tar has "antimitotic effects" and proposes that that might  account for some of its action and effect.
sometimes blowing it off takes  the pressure off the "cooker."
so get little houdini treated and maybe he  won't be stuck with the nickname for life.
" people with open skin lesions feel vulnerable to both the facts of infection and to the idea of infection.
i threw off the placid mantle because i was tired of being treated like a doormat.
now i wouldn't be without it, because it's the only thing that soothes in a certain way when i'm very itchy and cracked.
this forum, too, is a module for communication and brings its own eye witnesses.
am constantly "soaking" my head in the shower (along with the rest of me) every nite.
from: ralph subject: re: what about food? >>
a doctor at work diagnosed mumps, but it wasn't mumps.
i either reply "thank you" or  explain that i have a skin condition that makes my skin look this way.
i think it is better to find ways to vent anger than bottle it up.
my mother  used to make me wear soft leggings/mitts/gloves over my hands especially when i  was a small kid.
houdini dear eric, please have ezra seen to by a dermatologist if you've not  already done so.
i use water to wash off all the dead skin and  doctor the new stuff underneath.
so, i  would wonder about contact allergies.
we adults sometimes underestimate kids' intelligence--they know a lot of things at gut level whether adults spell it out for them or not.
also, if you use nasal steroids, you want to get your nostrils as clear as possible before spraying so that the drug gets where it is supposed to go.
what would you suggest to help her skin return to its normal color?
hi ralph, you make the tar "toilet" sound very appealing.
fingers) can carry bacteria and viruses better than any inanimate fomite i know of.
if the active ingredient(s) were known, i suspect we wouldn't have to  use smelly black stuff.
types i and iv  (usually) go together -- if we're talking about the "atopic state" of  affairs.
we're not doubting the ability to  "fight," we're doubting that the skin should be treated like a  windmill:
and for me, the benefits outweigh the difficulties.
from: kristen subject:
but one day i got shots; then left the next day on a trip to asia.
i cannot emphasize enough that it's an awful thing to do to a child.
ralph, i've never tried using tar products.
if i'm in really good condition, i might skip a shower for one night, but the daily showering keeps the itch down, and the sensation of not feeling "dirty" from loose skin particles.
i don't know about you, but when i'm in the the middle of eczematoid throes, i want nothing to do with people.
we've been to most of the dermatologists in local  practice, as well as a homeopathic clinic.
the array of variables (situation,  time; circumstance, environment) makes for confusion.
this  is where the "cellular branch" of the immune system comes in:  t-cells->intermediate reactions->eczematic "atopic" dermatitis.
but because it was "just a skin" problem , we missed out on whatever counseling was available for those with more serious handicaps.
like you, i don't know why physicians tend to be poor communicators.
i lost a lot of weight.
if you are interested in the bar soaps, i'll check on the names.
i also think the vibration of the razor serves as a scratch substitute and i am experimenting with this on the arms too.
the full flavour of the mailing list can be experienced  only bysubscribing.
date: mon, 12 feb 1996  15:21:12 -0500
my daughter nadia has had ad since 18 mos.
if i had a penny  for everyone who's had to pay dearly for infections gotten from casual-contact  *bacterial* contamination, i'd be wealthy.
if this  helps i'll let you all know.
as we approached hong kong, i really flared (assuming it was the peanut dust in the airplane air).
i only have a couple of small yellowish patches left.
restraints may have helped me keep from scratching for certain periods of time but psychologically they were the worst thing for me.
maybe ignorance, too.
the scenarios were in  hospital where nurses used their unprotected hands (their hands had open and  bleeding lesions) to compress bloody wounds on patients infected with hiv.
i know it's difficult for very young children to have any self-control.
from:  kristen subject: re: eczema distracts from other probs.
i'm not  interested in someone's latest foray to the grocery store, if you know what i
wayne 8.5/10date: thu, 22 feb 1996 11:47:17 pst from: wren subject: is rationing rational?
my skin is really good.
i don't know what the polysorbates do, but the result is excellent.
but sometimes i feel dry-itchy and need spot wash with  creams; sometimes i put on too much ointment and it's too greasy and the skin  needs to breathe; other times i can tell that it's probably getting infected
i recommend keeping  the fingernails extremely short, encouraging the child to hold something in the  hand at night, bite the arm or whatever's in reach, or to pinch or slap the  skin lightly instead of scratching, but don't tie them down!
if this is the case, it seems to be due to the toxic effect of viral particles (i.e., incomplete virions) that have gotten shed.
i  chalk it up to arrogance and failure to listen on their part.
ralph, i used zetar.
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 19:34:55 -0500
because i don't like to tolerate the sloughing (it can be embarrassing), i shower every night--short showers, maybe 5 minutes.
rarely get swollen glands/lymph nodes anymore.
shouldn't the doctors have mentioned that?
his skin still gets a bit itchy from time to time, and  we put on a bit of diprolene, but there has never again been any significant  whole-body involvement.
when i clean out the ear canals other times, i end up with weeping and subsequent infection and then ear pain throughout.
if i'm in really good condition, i might skip a shower for one night, but  the daily showering keeps the itch down, and the sensation of not feeling  "dirty" from loose skin particles.
the pediatrician  had been suggesting various innocuous emolients and so forth, which really did  nothing.
date: thu, 1 feb 1996 00:39:04  -0500 from: shelley subject: re: food richard: i am extremely allergic to nuts and seeds, and avoid or reduce  intake of caffeine, sugar, salt, citrus, and dairy products to keep my  condition under control.
when i went back to milk, i could no longer tolerate it at all--milk now makes  so miserable i can only tolerate minute amounts periodically.
rather than just complaining, better to take  some kind of action.
i say "associated" because oftentimes there are several things at play here.
it's in the man-woman area.
date: wed, 31 jan 1996 16:25:51 -0500 from: jack  subject:
my derm doctor suggested i try this  to help exfoliate.
the  product i like is called zetar, made by dermik laboratories, collegeville, pa,  and it's a prescription item.
ezra has it quite bad on his face, mostly on his cheeks and a little on his  forehead, neck and chest.
any suggestions in this area?
and the constant itchy eyes makes for regular blurry vision.
and  the constant itchy eyes makes for regular blurry vision.
i speak up at will  now, since i no longer care to please everyone else more than myself.
from: kristen subject: re: eczema distracts from other probs.
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 17:23:17 -0600
date: tue, 27 feb 1996 17:31:02 -0600
just because molluscum is not the "big" issue of herpes viruses popping up in the periorbital region, does not for a moment say that it cannot or must not be a problem.
i was taught never to show emotions, so it is second nature to bottle things up--not good for skin.
i don't like to think that anger is bad just because it's anger.
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 13:55:58 pst  from: wren subject:
from: ralph subject: anger kristen, for about two years i have been going to a weekly therapy group in  which the leader occasionally suggests that someone do "anger work"  either in the group or at home.
hi wren, i pretty much have eczema from head to toe in varying degrees.
so that's been my daily regimen for a long time now.
date: fri, 23 feb 1996 17:02:09 -0600
(when i'm feeling impoverished and using vaseline, idon't dry myself at all.)
clearly, we don't have easy answers because we don't have an easy problem.
or are  you so involved with your own interests that other people's company isn't that  important?
my mother used to make me wear soft leggings/mitts/gloves over my hands especially when i was a small kid.
all the male derm's i saw insisted i had acne;  it was only a woman derm dr who knew immediately what was wrong with me!
i went to an eye doctor for the surgery since my dermatologist said he didn't feel comfortable working in the delicate area of the eye.
i was never told it was contagious.
and, though we usually don't realize it, our hands are all over our faces.
or are you so involved with your own interests that other people's company isn't that important?
he was my idol as a child because my parents would tie me up in restraints (handcuffs, strait jackets, ropes, chains, you name it) to keep me from scratching but i would always figure out how to escape - a la houdini!
fine, but then why is it that most people with "atopic dermatitis" also have problems with "allergies" and allergens?
rather than just complaining, better to take some kind of action.
many infants with atopic dermatitis are clear of it by their second birthday but to wait a year and a half would be a little unfair to the child.
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 23:52:34 -0500  from: jack subject: re: eczema distracts from other probs.
we've begun to call him houdini because he is quite creative in getting his hands free (a little sense of humor goes a long way with this, no?).
for example, if a contact dermatitis arises due to, say, allergies caused  by agents like eye drops or cosmetics, the irritation can provide a seeding bed  for molluscum or, for that matter, for any pathogenic contaminant.
since one of the troubles with psoriasis and some eczemas is the observed "thickening" of the skin which tends to "crack" and form "scales," we're observing a phenomenon called "hyperplasia," i.e., the skin's over-achiever attempt to regenerate and displace "because of the injury."
edited archives february 1996 eczema mailing list archive this file contains most  of the traffic on the eczema mailing list during february 1996.
communication is a critical event in the history of successful treatments.
[if it's atopic dermatitis!] is  -- as a lesion -- caused by the "cellular" branch of the immune  system.
i tried to live with them but eventually decided i couldn't stand looking at them anymore.
and both branches bear the fruit of our travail.
from: kristen subject: re: bathing wren, when i was younger i never gave a second's thot to stress/emotions, but at mid-age, it has hit me like a sledge hammer that my psychic well-being or non-well-being is critical.
over time i wore holes right through the cloth because itching  was beyond my control.
in other words, coal tar discourages cell replication.
from: kristen subject: re: re[2]:  bathing wren, i've never actually documented--just recall skin problems when my  psychic health was less than optimal; and nonexistent when i was happy with my  life.
my dermatologist kept writing prescriptions for zetar for a long  time before i actually went and bought the stuff.
his skin still gets a bit itchy from time to time, and we put on a bit of diprolene, but there has never again been any significant whole-body involvement.
you said it took 2 days for the skin immune system to react to allergens (as in a tb test).
that was 20 years ago.
many parents view treatment of ad with steroid creams with a great deal of apprehension and suspicion but topical steroids used appropriately and judiciously, are invaluable in treating ad.
from: richard subject: tar i seem to remember that tar either deadens the nerves or thickens the skin.
from: robert subject: bathing
once in a while now i pick up a pillow and beat something with it.
from: ralph subject: more on eczema in infancy
think i'll try bathing more often, and perhaps try out the tar treatment.
she still suffers almost  constant itching, flaking, thin skin and naturally the scratches she inflicts  on herself.
i've made an appointment with a woman who teaches the alexander technique, which she said is based on rapid eye movements (beats me).
i think i talked with shelley about this long ago.
periodically i get complimented on my tan or looking healthy from being out in the sun.
if i don't use water, i end up taking it off  and then injuring the new skin underneath, which is counterproductive.
if i don't use water, i end up taking it off and then injuring the new skin underneath, which is counterproductive.
i think it's because there's so much  natural adrenaline and cortisol in my system.
according to this line of thinking, the young child's sensory apparatus is  overwhelmed with the itching, and doesn't process other sensations like hunger  very well.
anyhow, the two day lag is something to remember when trying to figure out the cause of a flare.
houdini i have a question for those with experience with children who have eczema.
i use water to wash off all the dead skin and doctor the new stuff underneath.
date: thu, 22 feb 1996 18:12:26 -0500 from: ralph  subject:
many theories have been suggested, but the  only one that enjoys scientific "approval" was put forward in a  professional paper published by lowe et al.
skin  discoloration my daughter has eczema on her arms and legs.
after that, it was like eating plain grain; it would all crumble and fall apart in your hands.
scientists gell and coombs also classified and termed cell-mediated  hypersensitivity which they dubbed "type iv hypersensitivity."
eczema itself is not an infection.
date: tue, 27 feb 1996 10:54:39 -0500
recently i got to wondering if maybe i should wet myself down daily.
i hope  that i'm not being too outspoken
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 23:52:34 -0500 from: jack subject: re: eczema distracts from other probs.
i was hoping that with summer, her limbs would be exposed to  sunlight which would help the healing process.
i was too young  and stupid and embarrassed; now i wish i had shot back, "leprosy."
unfortunately, there seem to be more things that have a negative effect than  there are things that have a positive effect.
so i prefer more water rather than less to keep myself functioning--also, as a safety measure against infection.
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 21:42:07 est from: gilbert subject: more tar madness about coal tar's mode of action.
as a result (so goes the theory), the child doesn't really know when s/he is hungry.
date: fri, 23 feb 1996 15:36:19 pst  from: wren subject:
date: fri, 23 feb 1996 16:46:40 -0600
kris date: mon, 12 feb 1996 10:48:06 pst from: wren subject: re: skin  discoloration hi tyrone, my skin has become a slight reddish brown on all parts of my  body where i itch, which is nearly everywhere.
we live in the northeast and her body is always covered, at  least this time of year.
i've never had intense itch  in the ear canals, but they slough only when i'm also having scalp, face and  neck eczema flares.
my son's eczema cleared up after the two-week treatment, which we performed assiduously, and has never returned!
comments ann, i've had sinusitis for so many years i probably wouldn't know if i had an infection or not--i just have constant runny nose and eyes.
all the male derm's i saw insisted i had acne; it was only a woman derm dr who knew immediately what was wrong with me!
you correctly use the word "phobia" to identify an irrational fear.
this is where the "cellular branch" of the immune system comes in: t-cells->intermediate reactions->eczematic "atopic" dermatitis.
more to the point, molluscum with its little elevated lid-margin tumors has  a "tendency" with some people to "set up house."
and then laughed at her reaction.
mostly on my eyelids, but i did have one on my cheek.
altho some antibiotics use precludes exposure  to sun also.
and, sure enough, when these forces are at play, the bug doesn't just whither away.
i still rely on aspirin or something similar if i feel antsy.
hence, doctors, nurses, the role of the fields of medicine.
the pediatrician had been suggesting various innocuous emolients and so forth, which really did nothing.
i have to be real careful not to get into a rub-scratch-off-the-used-skin-in-grease situation while soaking.
we've always just been taught a "lady" doesn't show it.
anyhow, the two day lag is something to remember when trying to figure  out the cause of a flare.
a mild topical corticosteroid (eg 1% hydrocortisone or maybe something a little stronger-if he needs it) and emollients can give lots of relief.
solitude is very important to  me--more important than people just for the sake of people.
i've made an appointment with a woman who teaches the alexander technique,  which she said is based on rapid eye movements (beats me).
we've been to most of the dermatologists in local practice, as well as a homeopathic clinic.
i think this form of emulsion (zetar, the one with  "polysorbates") might be relatively new.
i threw off  the placid mantle because i was tired of being treated like a doormat.
date: thu, 1 feb 1996 17:01:28 -0600
sometimes i'm under the shower  long enough to feel "soaked," and then i make sure i cream up all  over as much as possible.
as a result (so goes the theory), the child doesn't really know when  s/he is hungry.
in point of fact and in point of frequency: type i and type iv hypersensitivity reactions usually belong as symptoms within the same set of individuals.
anybody know why tar calms our skin?date: fri, 23 feb 1996 16:36:05 -0800 from: ann subject: bathing
this archive was edited and coded for on-line publication on the web bybyte ryte bv .
more to the point, molluscum with its little elevated lid-margin tumors has a "tendency" with some people to "set up house."
i do know that prolonged anger has been detrimental this past year, and  when i feel miserable i don't want to be around people.
this consists of using a soft, padded bat or a pillow to beat something like a bed or a couch.
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 19:31:23 -0500
periodically i get complimented on my tan or looking  healthy from being out in the sun.
i speak up at will now, since i no longer care to please everyone else more than myself.
also, i find that it has become much harder for me to accept other people in friendships and to make friends as i have gotten older...i don't have the patience it seems for mindless discussion for discussion sake and find it hard tolerate people unless they have something to say...i believe this creates a wall to some extent, therefore making new friends becomes harder.
i have used various forms of tar since i was a child, and this stuff, though smelly, is in a different league from the others.
my dermatologist kept writing prescriptions for zetar for a long time before i actually went and bought the stuff.
veg pizza is a big  favorite--no grease.
we have had to devise various ways to keep him from  scratching.
so  that's been my daily regimen for a long time now.
my skin doesn't like sun anymore--it just  gets mottled and burns in spots.
i was hoping that with summer, her limbs would be exposed to sunlight which would help the healing process.
i  know mine is the result of overuse of steroids that were much too strong for  too long a period, like 10 yrs.
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 16:58:44 -0600
and i am an avid bread and ice cream fan!
isn't that mean of me?
but the washes are time  consuming and can precipitate nose bleeds.
kris, though i do try to limit my contact with people who annoy or anger me (i'll be working at home more now in part because i'm in a cubicle surrounded by inanity all day), i like some contact and support.
and both  branches bear the fruit of our travail.
from: robert subject: re: houdini when i was an infant and had eczema, i was taken off of cows milk and goats
i skip breakfast entirely now becuz there's just not much to bother with anymore.
i do know that prolonged anger has been detrimental this past year, and when i feel miserable i don't want to be around people.
it's in the  man-woman area.
i think the homeopathic stuff may have strengthened nadia's immune system, because after the regimine was complete she almost never had staph infections.
it's a real  irritant.
that is a novel idea--it never occurred to me to consider a dry massage.
unresolved anger is worst of all--so now i take definite steps to remove  myself from chaos.
haha i've had swollen neck glands--i ended up with something for three weeks and was so weak and sick i lost 30 pounds.
but the mystery of the beneficial effect of tar doesn't really have to  remain a mystery, does it?
hi ann, i've never had a doctor who was so tactless, but lay people have blurted out loudly "what have you got on your neck?"
it got into the grouting in the bathtub, blackened everything (towels, clothes) and took a long time to show any results.
purportedly, einstein once said we need to make everything as simple as we possibly can, but no simpler.
women's behavior rarely fits the societal myths that bind us.
from: ralph subject:  re: houdini my main suggestion is, don't wait around before getting ezra some effective  treatment.
no one has  ever mentioned it to me.
i live with my partner, who has two children, so there's daily  chaos, anger, frustration, smiles, learning, growth, and love.
i've always had sloughing ear canals.
more than about twice a  week tends to cause discomfort.
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 18:03:21 ...
any suggestions in this area?date: mon, 26 feb 1996 13:55:58 pst from: wren subject: re: bathing thanks to all of you who have responded to my question about our bathing regimens.
re: child with eczema my daughter nadia has had ad since 18 mos.
date: mon, 26 feb 1996  16:50:41 -0600
i'm sorry you've had repeated bouts with  our (usually) "benign" and "lazy" virus.
i mean, drug companies sometimes test thousands of  compounds to see whether one of them will have particular properties.
haha i've had swollen neck glands--i ended up with something for three weeks and  was so weak and sick
at night i  wash my face with cetaphil liquid cleanser and put eucerin creme all over.
hi jack---i think it's heartwarming that your daughter can communicate with  you just using expressions!
even when in intense pain from my eczema, i'll just barely whimper.
date: thu, 29 feb 1996 22:47:39 -0500
back  to my tar obsession zetar doesn't stick to the tub in any appreciable amount.
in other words, coal tar discourages  cell replication.
date: mon, 12 feb 1996 15:21:12 -0500 from: ralph subject: re: immune issues >> i also have the feeling that there are two types of eczema.
for girls, it is even harder because our culture judges females on our looks 99%. .
he was my idol as a child  because my parents would tie me up in restraints (handcuffs, strait jackets,  ropes, chains, you name it) to keep me from scratching but i would always  figure out how to escape - a la houdini!
but with atopic dermatitis, it's sort of like don quixote fighting the windmills.
i find  that shaving my underarms and legs very lightly with an electric razor really  helps as long as the skin isn't real bad.
solitude is very important to me--more important than people just for the sake of people.
it would be great to have lyncoln e-mail nadia directly, so they can  kid-talk about their experiences.
there's also balnetar, which is from westwood and available over the  counter.
i don't see it so much as proactive, as fighting for the return of my  former healthy skin.
date: thu, 1 feb 1996 12:51:08 -0500
we adults sometimes  underestimate kids' intelligence--they know a lot of things at gut level  whether adults spell it out for them or not.
this forum, too, is a module for communication and brings its  own eye witnesses.
re: eczema distracts from other probs.
i've been thinking about emotions and my skin more and more lately.
hi ann, i've never had a doctor who was so tactless, but lay people have  blurted out loudly "what have you got on your neck?"
to this day i still am negatively affected by that experience.
we say to the patient, "come back in two days so i can read your skin."
date: sat, 24 feb 1996 13:33:08  -0500 from: shelley subject: re: wet/dry/grease i have full body eczema, wren.
i tried drops under the tongue along with a diet that excluded all dairy,  and anything with gluten!
most meat makes be gag if i have to fix my own, so i stick with veggie casseroles and vegburgers, things like that.
at 7, our son is still small for his age, but strong and healthy, and we're  very glad we had him treated.
effect comes into play, we'll need to be clear about what we "know" and what we experience; signs and symptoms are not identical with disease entity -- yet they are "inextricably" bound up with evidentiary causation.
when the hand coverings were new and i couldn't itch effectively, i used to scratch as far as possible using my toenails!
most meat makes be gag if i have to fix  my own, so i stick with veggie casseroles and vegburgers, things like that.
gil, your explanation of the immune response was really good and made sense  to me in terms of what i have experienced lately.
it was fine the first time eaten just out of the oven.
i mean, drug companies sometimes test thousands of compounds to see whether one of them will have particular properties.
date: tue, 27 feb 1996 17:44:03 -0600
tylenol  for kids might help take the edge off your child's nerves--i used to take heavy  duty transquilizers--a mere palliative but it makes one so dopey and lethargic.
thu, 29 feb 1996 11:02:41 -0500
the dermatologist prescribed his usual combination of oral antibiotics, tar baths, and twice-daily applications of diprolene (steriod) ointment.
from: ralph subject: more tar madness my doctor (actually his associate, whom i've not met face-to-face) told me that no one really knows why it works.
when i was flaring so bad when i first started allergy shots, it was always about 48 hours after a shot.
i always find it condescending  when adults don't tell kids stuff they should know--they know anyway even when  it hasn't been put into words by some omniscient older person!
have you tried bathing with tar?
she said to her, "oh, you poor thing, must have fallen off your bicycle, here's a cookie, darling."
at first, i thought it was happening because i expected it to happen.
effect comes into play, we'll need to be clear about what we  "know" and what we experience; signs and symptoms are not identical  with disease entity -- yet they are "inextricably" bound up with  evidentiary causation.
you correctly use the word "phobia" to identify an  irrational fear.
right now i'm using  regular shampoo , but when scalp is bad, i use t-gel.
so maybe your intense emotional outpouring is having a positive effect.
shelly, my parents were the opposite of yours.
date: fri, 2 feb 1996 07:55:20
re: massage and telangiectasia shelley, i suspect any one who has used cortisone religiously will end up with telangiectasia, but they may not if they do faithful derm follow ups.
an open skin contact would need to be a compression lock against blood-exposing skin from someone with hiv -- and it would require some "time" to enable viral transfer.
that's probably why  i like this list---it's great to communicate with people like yourself, but i  also like the anonymity!
and with destruction of the collagen and subsequent diminished  muscle mass, pver time can one expect to lose ambulatory status or use of  limbs?
nadia accepted it  gratefully, and gave me a knowing glance that was so ripe with meaning it broke  my heart.
please note  that the archive has been edited for accessibility as well as the protection of  contributors' privacy.
if i had a fortune for demonstrating a case of casual-contact infection from aids, i'd remain penniless for it.
a doctor at work diagnosed mumps, but it  wasn't mumps.
can't take only  only half of the equation.
i believe the skin thing came first, and the psychic woes are a result  of it.
i got all the gluten-free cookbooks and made my own rice  bread, etc.
good to hear you did so well in the sun.
and, sure enough,  when these forces are at play, the bug doesn't just whither away.
does anyone else experience this?
though there is probably some truth in the saying "to itch is only human but to scratch, divine", somehow i do not think little ezra appreciates it.
veg  pizza is a big favorite--no grease.
from: kristen subject: re: skin discoloration
blepharitis (i.e., inflammation of the eyelids) and conjunctivitis can sometimes be associated with molluscum.
and with destruction of the collagen and subsequent diminished muscle mass, over time can one expect to lose ambulatory status or use of limbs?
we wondered if there was a connection between the eczema and the loss of appetite, and he told us that babies with eczema usually don't eat well.
my patience level with inanity is nil these days, so i find myself keeping my own company more and more out of personal choice.
ann and eczema community: re swollen lymph nodes...mine swell when i have  staph infections.
fine, but then why is it that most people with "atopic  dermatitis" also have problems with "allergies" and allergens?
amazing what kids can convey sometimes!date: mon, 26 feb 1996 23:57:18 -0500
books are usually more interesting to me than people.
i don't like the  aimless busyness i see all around me--not much of sense behind the busyness  generally.
in point of fact and in point of frequency: type i and type iv  hypersensitivity reactions usually belong as symptoms within the same set of  individuals.
i was taught never to show emotions, so it is second nature to bottle  things up--not good for skin.
i was totally unaware then of what time it was (my watch was on asian  time).
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 20:10:29 -0500 from: ralph subject: re: houdini my main suggestion is, don't wait around before getting ezra some effective treatment.
but, the general pattern is that we  should not be surprised to find a patient presenting with atopic dermatitis who  also has food allergies, or asthma, or "hay fever".
date: mon, 26 feb 1996  23:57:18 -0500
at that point, we have an issue that needs to be and, probably, can be addressed.
date: tue, 27 feb 1996 10:54:39  -0500 from:
but did it help your eczema? >
then there's something of a vicious cycle with "reoccurrences" of the "same."
i takes the nodes' swelling as a signal that something's different that is going on in my system, and that my body is responding.
the array of variables (situation, time; circumstance, environment) makes for confusion.
i soak my hands in this stuff, mixed into a basin of warm water, and it helps a great deal.
nadia accepted it gratefully, and gave me a knowing glance that was so ripe with meaning it broke my heart.
of course, i'm not saying that hands are the culprit, but whenever i think of routes by which skin infections get launched, i always think: hands.
i used to like  cereal, but that's impractical.
hi jack---i think it's heartwarming that your daughter can communicate with you just using expressions!
but after 2 days of not showering, i feel like a little disgusting grease ball.
i also shower at least once daily, sometimes more when i'm having more problems.
from: kristen subject: re: anger hi ann, what is the purpose of saline nasal washes?
date: thu, 29 feb  1996 22:47:39 -0500
i've lived alone since i was 27--big change at the time, but i wouldn't go back to the chaos i grew up in.
it nearly killed me--a whole year of the most boring foods imaginable.
i do this in private (unless i'm at the  therapy group) because other people usually feel scared or disturbed by  it.
i tried to live with them but eventually  decided i couldn't stand looking at them anymore.
[allergen provokes antibody | provokes->tissue | provokes: effector-response such as rhinitis and asthma].
re: bathing thanks to all of you who have responded to my question about our bathing  regimens.
actually, the sort of issue you've brought up here, is one of the things  that interests me about the topic of eczema.
i don't see it so much as proactive, as fighting for the return of my former healthy skin.
types i and iv (usually) go together -- if we're talking about the "atopic state" of affairs.
because i don't like to tolerate the sloughing (it can be embarrassing), i  shower every night--short showers, maybe 5 minutes.
so i prefer more water rather than  less to keep myself functioning--also, as a safety measure against infection.
what would you suggest to help her skin return to its  normal color?
and there's also the same issue of the doubtful opponent with the type i  response the asthmatic has: why is antibody raising the sword against windmills?
date: fri, 23 feb 1996 16:36:25 -0600
even when in intense pain from my  eczema, i'll just barely whimper.
a black tub afterwards doesn't appeal to me though!
i remember using tar  in my late teens and early 20s--detested the smell, was sure everyone could  tell it and would think i had a bad case of body odor.
what works for me is taking a shower once a  day and totally greasing up after that.
this discussion on anger intrigues me since i have come to believe that  venting anger more easily may very well increase the level of anger one attains  more easily, and, therefore a "ventor" of anger may actually operate  at a higher anger level most of the time because becoming angry happens more  easily and venting is a pleasureable, ok activity if that makes sense to anyone  else.
i put eucerin creme on all over after drying.
i  only get them on my face.
hence,  communication.
it's a real irritant.
i can't stand the gooiness of heavy oils, altho occasionally i've used  small amounts of vitamin e oil i apply diprolene to my scalp immediately when  after a shower when my hair is still wet--it doesn't seem to grease up my hair  as much as when the hair is dry.
the dermatologist prescribed his usual combination of oral antibiotics, tar  baths, and twice-daily applications of diprolene (steriod) ointment.
of course, sometimes i misinterpret the feeling and that causes more problems, but basically, it's learning my own body language and forms of communication.
" people with open skin lesions feel vulnerable to both the facts of  infection and to the idea of infection.
we're not doubting the ability to "fight," we're doubting that the skin should be treated like a windmill: yes, there's a genetic or hereditary component to this cell-mediated atopia.
this delayed response -- it takes the t-cells (they're generals) "time" to communicate down the ranks to effector molecules (they're the grunts who do the fighting) -- is a sign that the skin is protecting itself.
we do know of two cases where this was likely.
from: kristen subject: re: re[2]: bathing hi robert, welcome back.
i either reply "thank you" or explain that i have a skin condition that makes my skin look this way.
any phenomenon around the eye is "hands off" for  nonspecialists to my way of thinking.
until i beat the  infection down.
i was too young and stupid and embarrassed; now i wish i had shot back, "leprosy."
so, i would wonder about contact allergies.
the eye doctor is the one who told me it was a virus and if not removed could cause blindness.
wonder if the alpha-keri doesn't have some "additive" that is the reason for the itchiness.
once in a while now i pick up a  pillow and beat something with it.
can't take only only half of the equation.
but don't use your best white towel with it, as it  does stain to some extent.
the buzz from itching there  (with q tips) is so intense, i have come very close to blacking out.
it nearly killed me--a whole year of the most boring  foods imaginable.
date: fri, 2 feb 1996 07:55:20 -0500
date: tue, 27 feb 1996 09:37:04 pst from:  wren subject: re[2]: bathing kris, thanks for your thoughts on the importance of expressing emotions.
(my feet are pretty clear).
krisdate: mon, 12 feb 1996 10:48:06 pst from: wren subject: re: skin discoloration hi tyrone, my skin has become a slight reddish brown on all parts of my body where i itch, which is nearly everywhere.
comments ann, i've had sinusitis for so many years i probably wouldn't know if i had  an infection or not--i just have constant runny nose and eyes.
this is not casual contact, it's outright forceful blood-to-blood impregnation and is indistinguishable from other impregnations such as the sharing of "dirty needles.
i've lived alone since i was 27--big change at the time, but i  wouldn't go back to the chaos i grew up in.
i'm especially interested in those of you who have large areas of eczema.
and then i would get my revenge by scratching even more furiously!
i'm not good at close relationships--they make me  uncomfortable.
i don't have large areas of eczema (yet - knock wood), but all of my skin  can get itchy and uncomfortable if i shower too often.
my son was small for his age, eating very little,  at the time we finally had him seen by the dermatologist.
now i wouldn't be without it,  because it's the only thing that soothes in a certain way when i'm very itchy  and cracked.
date: thu, 29 feb 1996 11:02:41 -0500 from: robert subject: re: houdini when i was an infant and had eczema, i was taken off of cows milk and goats milk was substituted.
where is it discolored--all over, or just in certain areas?
the product i like is called zetar, made by dermik laboratories, collegeville, pa, and it's a prescription item.
here's some things that are on the edge, but i want to share them.
and i want to spend my time on personal pursuits in the time i  have left.
date: tue, 27 feb 1996 09:37:04 pst from: wren subject: re[2]: bathing kris, thanks for your thoughts on the importance of expressing emotions.
she said to her, "oh, you poor thing, must have  fallen off your bicycle, here's a cookie, darling."
you only live once! >
that's probably why i like this list---it's great to communicate with people like yourself, but i also like the anonymity!
unfortunately, i cannot say the same when it comes to staph infections  (there are too many to list here) and a number of other *bacterial* agents  which can present problems to folks with open skin lesions.
date: thu, 1 feb 1996  12:51:08 -0500
i  don't like to think that anger is bad just because it's anger.
i know mine is the result of overuse of steroids that were much too strong for too long a period, like 10 yrs.
at least, i would not want to forget them.
and then i would get my revenge by  scratching even more furiously!
any phenomenon around the eye is "hands off" for nonspecialists to my way of thinking.
i agree with ralph and feel that too many people (including doctors) spend too much time pussy-footing around with the treatment of ad in infants.
i don't know about you, but when i'm in the the middle of eczematoid  throes, i want nothing to do with people.
date: thu, 1 feb 1996 16:52:20 -0600
home | subscribe | faq | archives | pick | subscribers |  charter | links | feedback
i itch more from too much grease than i do from dryness.
from: kristen subject: re: is rationing rational?
and with destruction of the collagen and subsequent diminished  muscle mass, over time can one expect to lose ambulatory status or use of  limbs?
one immune system with two branches (humoral and cellular).
and there's also the same issue of the doubtful opponent with the type i response the asthmatic has: why is antibody raising the sword against windmills?
but sometimes i feel dry-itchy and need spot wash with creams; sometimes i put on too much ointment and it's too greasy and the skin needs to breathe; other times i can tell that it's probably getting infected and i need cleocin-t. there are numerous feelings of discomfort and itch and over time i've learned to understand what the nuances signify and what treatment is required for each feeling.
also, if you use nasal  steroids, you want to get your nostrils as clear as possible before spraying so  that the drug gets where it is supposed to go.
i guess no one can win!date: fri, 16 feb 1996 13:36:19 est from: wayne subject:
water gives me the most relief--comfort level is very important to me so that i can concentrate on other things.
i had my first two for nearly a year before removing them.
i don't emote easily, though i speak my mind more frequently and vehemently than i did earlier in life.
scientists gell and coombs also classified and termed cell-mediated hypersensitivity which they dubbed "type iv hypersensitivity."
we waited until my son was about two, if i recall correctly, or maybe it was 18 months, before we took him to a dermatologist.
apparently the lymph nodes produce some wbcs to fight off the infection.
it nearly killed me--a whole year of the most boring foods  imaginable.
if this  is the case, it seems to be due to the toxic effect of viral particles (i.e.,  incomplete virions) that have gotten shed.
it's very black and kind of yucky, and it makes  the bath water smell like a roofing job on a hot summer day, but it really  makes my skin feel good.
i got all the gluten-free cookbooks and made my own rice bread, etc.
since one of the troubles with psoriasis and some eczemas is  the observed "thickening" of the skin which tends to  "crack" and form "scales," we're observing a phenomenon  called "hyperplasia," i.e., the skin's over-achiever attempt to  regenerate and displace "because of the injury."
and i need cleocin-t. there are numerous feelings of discomfort and itch and  over time i've learned to understand what the nuances signify and what  treatment is required for each feeling.
i literally withdraw from those environments/people.
fingers) can carry bacteria and viruses better than any inanimate fomite i know  of.
unresolved anger is worst of all--so now i take definite steps to remove myself from chaos.
restraints may have helped me keep from  scratching for certain periods of time but psychologically they were the worst  thing for me.
i feel better after showering, but am dryer, especially my scalp.
nadia accepted the woman's pity without going into explanation--even if for a different reason.
then i put cortisone on the bad spots.
professionally (and therefore personally), i do not worry  about possible contact contamination such as a handshake, a kiss -- casual  social gestures -- in the context of the hiv virus.
maybe eczema is not considered a "hot"  area of research, so no one has bothered to try finding the answer to that  question.
date:  thu, 1 feb 1996 17:01:28 -0600
i discarded that tenet several years ago--it didn't suit me.
an open skin contact  would need to be a compression lock against blood-exposing skin from someone  with hiv -- and it would require some "time" to enable viral  transfer.
that helped me (i have been told).date: thu, 29 feb 1996 17:26:46 -0600
anybody know why tar calms our skin?
from: kristen  subject: re: eczema distracts from other probs.
i'm sorry you've had repeated bouts with our (usually) "benign" and "lazy" virus.
don't try to do this while  you are waiting in line at the grocery store....).
i was totally unaware then of what time it was (my watch was on asian time).
the scenarios were in hospital where nurses used their unprotected hands (their hands had open and bleeding lesions) to compress bloody wounds on patients infected with hiv.
the "lesion" we see is an inappropriate event of cellular  immunity [technically called a "delayed-type hypersensitivity  response"].
i'm  wondering how one would do this as a practical matter for the scalp and entire  body?
eventually, i gave it up  because cortisone was so much "cleaner."
we live in the northeast and her body is always covered, at least this time of year.
how long is the incubation period?
many theories have been suggested, but the only one that enjoys scientific "approval" was put forward in a professional paper published by lowe et al.
my patience level with inanity is nil these days,  so i find myself keeping my own company more and more out of personal choice.
as  we approached hong kong, i really flared (assuming it was the peanut dust in  the airplane air).
date: thu, 1 feb 1996 00:39:04 -0500
i only get them on my face.
i find that shaving my underarms and legs very lightly with an electric razor really helps as long as the skin isn't real bad.
but after 2  days of not showering, i feel like a little disgusting grease ball.
i went to an eye doctor for  the surgery since my dermatologist said he didn't feel comfortable working in  the delicate area of the eye.
from: shelley subject: re: molluscum gil, the molluscum info is fascinating.
then through the day, i use washcloth  and more ointment for problem spots.
this  archive was edited and coded for on-line publication on the web bybyte ryte bv .
you must not be an inveterate cortisone user.
they just saw one trusted doctor; never even tried food elimination diets; and were offended when anyone suggested an alternative treatment.
date:  wed, 28 feb 1996 14:29:11 -0500
there's another dimension to the itching in infancy which i forgot to  mention in my last message.
it would be great to have lyncoln e-mail nadia directly, so they can kid-talk about their experiences.
is  it strictly hands on with nothing to lubricate?
she's allergic to dust mites and  of course cat and rabbit fur.
it's a mixture of their "alpha keri" oil and tar.
you just rinse, and it's gone.
i think i talked with shelley  about this long ago.
so get little houdini treated and maybe he won't be stuck with the nickname for life.
i shower once a day in as cool water as possible.
i disagree with your conclusions about anger.
but i've seen too many children (and  indirectly, their parents) suffer unneccessarily from this attitude (which  basically arises from ignorance).
after all, not only are multiple factors at play. . .
date: wed, 28 feb 1996 14:29:11 -0500
for example, if a contact dermatitis arises due to, say, allergies caused by agents like eye drops or cosmetics, the irritation can provide a seeding bed for molluscum or, for that matter, for any pathogenic contaminant.
i takes the nodes' swelling as a signal that something's different  that is going on in my system, and that my body is responding.
i use a  grapefruit based non-soap to cleanse only the necessary areas and to wash my  hair.
we wondered if there  was a connection between the eczema and the loss of appetite, and he told us  that babies with eczema usually don't eat well.
gil, your explanation of the immune response was really good and made sense to me in terms of what i have experienced lately.
i  feel better after showering, but am dryer, especially my scalp.
i use a grapefruit based non-soap to cleanse only the necessary areas and to wash my hair.
maybe it was the placebo effect or the stress and crying i mentioned above, but skin and sinuses got better and the lymph node went way down.
women's  behavior rarely fits the societal myths that bind us.
just because molluscum is not the "big"  issue of herpes viruses popping up in the periorbital region, does not for a  moment say that it cannot or must not be a problem.
altho some antibiotics use precludes exposure to sun also.
that can be anything from frustrating people to irritating situations.
date: thu, 22 feb 1996 18:12:26 -0500 from: ralph subject:
you are to be complimented as a parent who has established real sharing in the family.
but with atopic dermatitis, it's sort of like  don quixote fighting the windmills.
but the mystery of the beneficial effect of tar doesn't really have to remain a mystery, does it?
does the tar stick to your  skin?
i think it's because there's so much natural adrenaline and cortisol in my system.
if i had a penny for everyone who's had to pay dearly for infections gotten from casual-contact *bacterial* contamination, i'd be wealthy.
when so,  it's probably because there (is/was) a follicular conjunctivitis that's claimed  squatter's rights and become chronic -- and sometimes secretively so.
surely someone could take a look at a *known* therapeutic agent and figure out why it works...
from: kristen subject: re: re[2]: bathing wren, i've never actually documented--just recall skin problems when my psychic health was less than optimal; and nonexistent when i was happy with my life.
later i learned to touch my fingertips together one by one in a slow  repetitive pattern that was hypnotic and calming.
i always felt their cautious approach kept  us from finding a cure.
but i'm more interested in the life of the mind than in what passes for  conversation on a daily basis--most of it less than profound.
there's also balnetar, which is from westwood and available over the counter.
lowe and his group showed that coal tar has "antimitotic effects" and proposes that that might account for some of its action and effect.
one's level of anger may be commensurate with an incident; because sometimes anger is very justified.
has she been  using cortisone ?
i use cetaphil bar soap  on underarms, crotch, and feet.
i let him  give me a couple of sessions.
from: kristen  subject: re: re[2]: bathing hi robert, welcome back.
a mild topical corticosteroid (eg 1% hydrocortisone or maybe something  a little stronger-if he needs it) and emollients can give lots of relief.
the "lesion" we see is an inappropriate event of cellular immunity [technically called a "delayed-type hypersensitivity response"].
that seems very odd to me.
i'm wondering if i was better able to express my sadness and pain, somehow that might lead to an overall release and possibly skin improvement.
but keeping fingernails very very short and frequent handwashing is very important to keep from tearing up the skin and preventing infection.
comments kristen, the saline nasal washes are intended to clear out secretions in  the hope of preventing an infection in the sinuses.
eczema, however, in the context of its effect, can be a cause for infection insofar as its lesions can lead to a violation of skin integrity, whether that violation is primary or secondary.
i feel like ingrid bergman, who when she was told she had lung cancer, kept right on smoking to the end!
i admire you all in being so proactive in your own care.
i believe the skin thing came first, and the psychic woes are a result of it.
wonder if the alpha-keri doesn't have some "additive" that is the  reason for the itchiness.
we've begun to call him houdini because he is quite creative in  getting his hands free (a little sense of humor goes a long way with this,  no?).
from: ralph  subject: re: what about food? >>
perhaps a number of medical people don't really appreciate that; maybe they're accustomed to needing a staph explosion or a herpetic crisis to warrant "medical advice."
i live with my partner, who has two children, so there's daily chaos, anger, frustration, smiles, learning, growth, and love.
the dermatologist said they were harmless and need only be removed for cosmetic reasons.
i've used phisoderm for soaping, cetaphil lately, and some bar soaps that are  gentle without perfumes.
[that's the 'humoral' or antibody arm of the immune system -- the  "ige" connection, if you will].
counting hours now, i know it was the 48 hour post shot reaction.
when i clean out the ear canals other times, i end up with  weeping and subsequent infection and then ear pain throughout.
date: thu, 29 feb  1996 17:26:46 -0600
i don't like the aimless busyness i see all around me--not much of sense behind the busyness generally.
date: tue, 27 feb 1996 20:28:48 +0800 from: dev subject: houdini dear eric, please have ezra seen to by a dermatologist if you've not already done so.
i don't  know what the polysorbates do, but the result is excellent.
date: mon, 12 feb 1996 08:46:30 est from: tyrone subject:
over time i wore holes right through the cloth because itching was beyond my control.
however, i rarely cry.
it got into the grouting in the bathtub, blackened  everything (towels, clothes) and took a long time to show any results.
it  didn't do much for me and i must say that i was glad when i stopped using it.
then through the day, i use washcloth and more ointment for problem spots.
also, i find that it has become much harder for me to accept other people  in friendships and to make friends as i have gotten older...i don't have the  patience it seems for mindless discussion for discussion sake and find it hard  tolerate people unless they have something to say...i believe this creates a  wall to some extent, therefore making new friends becomes harder.
i itch more from too much grease  than i do from dryness.
tears run down my face constantly, esp on very cold windy days.
of course, sometimes i misinterpret the  feeling and that causes more problems, but basically, it's learning my own body  language and forms of communication.
until i beat the infection down.
i tried drops under the tongue along with a diet that excluded all dairy, and anything with gluten!
i 'm hoping that as my condition improves the red-brown will revert to my god-given olive white-yellow color.
professionally (and therefore personally), i do not worry about possible contact contamination such as a handshake, a kiss -- casual social gestures -- in the context of the hiv virus.
though there is probably some truth in the saying "to itch is only  human but to scratch, divine", somehow i do not think little ezra  appreciates it.
at first, i thought it was happening because i expected it to  happen.
and, even here, the degree of the problem is, as we see, quite dependant on the individual who presents with the problem.
i can testify that not much happens to improve eczema once a woman hits menopause---it just means you have some more miserable symptoms to contend with.
i can't stand the gooiness of heavy oils, altho occasionally i've used small amounts of vitamin e oil i apply diprolene to my scalp immediately when after a shower when my hair is still wet--it doesn't seem to grease up my hair as much as when the hair is dry.
from: ralph subject: back to my tar obsession zetar doesn't stick to the tub in any appreciable amount.
eventually, i gave it up because cortisone was so much "cleaner."
she's allergic to dust mites and of course cat and rabbit fur.
i am going thru some real tough emotional stuff right now.
that helped me (i have been told).
i think it is better to find  ways to vent anger than bottle it up.
i also wash my hair in the shower, which then becomes a 15-20 minute job.
water seems to be good for me, on the other hand.
[that's the 'humoral' or antibody arm of the immune system -- the "ige" connection, if you will].
being included is the last thing on my mind.
date: fri, 16 feb 1996  13:36:19 est from: wayne subject: re: eczema distracts from other probs.
(when i'm feeling impoverished and using vaseline,  idon't dry myself at all.)
yes, with some folk the so-called "benign" molluscum can be problematic.
to further the nomenclature, these "allergies" and  "asthma" are examples of what two pathbreaking researchers by the  names of gell and coombs termed "type i hypersensitivity" [allergen  provokes antibody | provokes->tissue | provokes: effector-response such as  rhinitis and asthma].
ralph subject: more on eczema in infancy
though atopic dermatitis is a disease state, the cellular immune response is  exactly what we try to elicit when we test folk for tb: we want the cellular  branch of the is to mount a response.
unfortunately, i cannot say the same when it comes to staph infections (there are too many to list here) and a number of other *bacterial* agents which can present problems to folks with open skin lesions.
i take soaking baths (20 to 40 mins) whenever i get that dry-all-over feeling.
at 7, our son is still small for his age, but strong and healthy, and we're very glad we had him treated.
i tried this a few times and to  my surprise it really helped me feel better!
date: fri, 23 feb 1996 16:36:05 -0800 from: ann subject: bathing
i  cannot emphasize enough that it's an awful thing to do to a child.
i don't  like this as much because the oil seems to be counter-productive for me, often  causing additional itchiness.
what worked best for me is when i learned to tuck my hands under my butt and pretend they were paralyzed.
from: kristen subject: re:  massage and telangiectasia shelley, i suspect any one who has used cortisone religiously will end up  with telangiectasia, but they may not if they do faithful derm follow ups.
i always felt their cautious approach kept us from finding a cure.
to further the nomenclature, these "allergies" and "asthma" are examples of what two pathbreaking researchers by the names of gell and coombs termed "type i hypersensitivity"
venting it, and then thinking thru the reasons for it may be more beneficial, along with deciding to handle it differently.
from: kristen subject: re: bathing wren, when i was younger i never gave a second's thot to stress/emotions,  but at mid-age, it has hit me like a sledge hammer that my psychic well-being  or non-well-being is critical.
i chalk it up to arrogance and failure to listen on their part.
we waited until my son was about two, if i recall correctly, or  maybe it was 18 months, before we took him to a dermatologist.
yes, with some folk the so-called "benign" molluscum  can be problematic.
date: fri, 23 feb 1996 15:36:19 pst from: wren subject: re[2]: is rationing rational?
you just rinse,  and it's gone.
sometimes it feels like our bodies are new life forms trying to evolve or emerge...
date: mon, 12 feb 1996 08:51:27 -0600
she also said that i probably have some blocked emotions that can be adding to my condition.
right now i'm using regular shampoo , but when scalp is bad, i use t-gel.
date:  tue, 27 feb 1996 22:09:47 -0800 from: ann subject: misc.
actually, the sort of issue you've brought up here, is one of the things that interests me about the topic of eczema.
you are to be complimented as a parent who has  established real sharing in the family.
i'm concerned with infection.
the main reason that he's doing a houdini is because it itches.
people  like me have basically normal skin; but the immune system is out of whack with  the skin simply the target organ.
i tried this a few times and to my surprise it really helped me feel better!
i find it very helpful and soothing.
if this helps i'll let you all know.
i'm not good at close relationships--they make me uncomfortable.
in my youth, i was highly placid and tolerant.
sure, there are exceptions.
while we're definitely dealing with physical forces (heredity;  repetitive-use stress; environmental agents -- you name it!), there are  psychological forces and "tempers" that confound clinician and  patient alike.
skin discoloration my daughter has eczema on her arms and legs.
yes, there's a genetic or hereditary component to this cell-mediated  atopia.
since then i get them removed within 6 months, but they've never gone away by themselves.
amazing what kids can convey sometimes!
i've never had intense itch in the ear canals, but they slough only when i'm also having scalp, face and neck eczema flares.
you say they're supposed to just curl up and  die by themselves, but mine never did.
date: mon, 12  feb 1996 08:51:27 -0600
anger has never been an acceptable emotion for women to show--doesn't mean we don't have it.
i  think your dermatologist, however, communicated well in referring you on to an  eye specialist.
but keeping fingernails very very short and frequent handwashing is very  important to keep from tearing up the skin and preventing infection.
people like me have basically normal skin; but the immune system is out of whack with the skin simply the target organ.
i never had that when i was a kid, so your daughter is one of the lucky ones.
i had my first two for nearly a year  before removing them.
when i went back to milk, i could no longer tolerate it at all--milk now makes so miserable i can only tolerate minute amounts periodically.
rarely get swollen glands/lymph nodes  anymore.
date: mon, 26 feb 1996 18:03:21  ...
they just saw one trusted  doctor; never even tried food elimination diets; and were offended when anyone  suggested an alternative treatment.
many parents view treatment of ad with steroid creams with a great deal of  apprehension and suspicion but topical steroids used appropriately and  judiciously, are invaluable in treating ad.
apparently the lymph nodes produce some wbcs to fight off the  infection.
hi tyrone, you mean her skin is mottled appearing?
i'm wondering how one would do this as a practical matter for the scalp and entire body?
do get a lot of weeping of scalp and this has been going on for a  couple of years now.
facts and ideas don't always match, however.
i always find it condescending when adults don't tell kids stuff they should know--they know anyway even when it hasn't been put into words by some omniscient older person!date: tue, 27 feb 1996 22:09:47 -0800 from: ann subject: misc.
from: ralph subject: anger kristen, for about two years i have been going to a weekly therapy group in which the leader occasionally suggests that someone do "anger work" either in the group or at home.
for what it's worth saliva is antimicrobial to hiv.
when i'm wet and then creamed up, i  feel more "loose" with more freely moving joints--if that makes any  sense.
venting it, and  then thinking thru the reasons for it may be more beneficial, along with  deciding to handle it differently.
it would be something clean and convenient to add to our bath water.
since i have this drat eczema virtually all over, i oil myself up several times a day, and try to shower only every other day to keep from drying out.
but don't use your best white towel with it, as it does stain to some extent.
nadia and i were in a bakery, where one of the friendly clerks struck up a  conversation with nadia.
my skin doesn't like sun anymore--it just gets mottled and burns in spots.
do get a lot of weeping of scalp and this has been going on for a couple of years now.
these are slippery slopes -- for lay people and for physicians; they're slippery for basic scientists as well: immunologists and bench scientists get confounded too.
feb  1996 16:46:40 -0600
date: sat, 24 feb 1996 13:33:08 -0500
i have to be real careful not to get into a  rub-scratch-off-the-used-skin-in-grease situation while soaking.
sometimes it feels like our bodies are new  life forms trying to evolve or emerge... date: mon, 26 feb 1996 14:11:33  est from: eric subject:
the dermatologist said they were harmless and need only  be removed for cosmetic reasons.
i limit myself to a few good friends and superficial contacts with others,
i recommend keeping the fingernails extremely short, encouraging the child to hold something in the hand at night, bite the arm or whatever's in reach, or to pinch or slap the skin lightly instead of scratching, but don't tie them down!