as you can imagine, his dead friends are not all nice looking and the  preview was quite scary!
overall the lorax 3d is a good movie.
the idea of "unless" is pivotal to the story -- that earth will continue to be polluted and destroyed "unless" people like ted and audrey stand up for it.
the acting was wonderful and i enjoyed the animation.
she  was crying that she couldn't stop thinking about it.
me and my friend went to see this movie today.
what other families should know educational positive messages flag as inappropriate was this review useful?
however, my 6-year-old sister was a bit worried by one particular song, so parents may want to check it out first.
helped me decide (1)  | had useful details  (3)  | read my mind (2) baltimore joe silk parent
helped me decide (2)  | had useful details (4)  | read my mind (2) drothschild0 parent
" consumerism: although the film (and story) itself espouses the same ecologically friendly themes asdr.
our child development rating guidelines browse our library of reviews recent reviews browse all reviews movie reviews (a-z) - dr. seuss' the lorax (movie) - wanderlust (movie) - gone (movie) - the secret world of arrietty (movie) - this means war (movie) - journey 2: the mysterious island (movie) - the vow (movie) - john carter (movie) - the hunger games (movie) - mirror mirror (movie) game reviews (a-z) app reviews (a-z) website reviews (a-z) tv reviews (a-z) book reviews (a-z) music reviews (a-z)
the movie had  great rolemodels,cute graphics and was overall an adorable family movie to go  and see!
helped me decide (2)  | had useful details (2)  |  read my mind(3)
educational positive messages good role models too violent sexual behavior isn't appropriate language my kids can't use noticeable product placement too much drinking, drugs, or smoking tell other families what you think give your review a title * hang on!
what other families should know educational positive messages good role models noticeable product placement flag as inappropriate was this review useful?
i chose to take my 4 year  old and even though she tells me now that it wasn't scary, there were quite a  few moments that she ended up in my lap or covering her eyes; thunder and  lightning before the lorax shows up, when the onceler first looks through the  window, and some of the intimidation moments from the bottled air guy - i'm  sure there were more.
sexy stuff: ted has a crush on audrey; at the end of the movie, they share a brief kiss.
helped me decide (3) | had useful details (4) | read my mind (2) stuffing13
but if ted exposes the truth to the people of thneedville, they'll realize nature isn't the dirty inconvenience they've been taught to believe.
but every cloud has a silver lining: the film would be very good for teaching bad writing.
the graphics were great.
beautiful,  to attract you, but empty, even negative at the core.
i went opening night.
teen, 14  years old age 8 great movie...nomatter how old your are!
what should other families know about this movie?
helped me decide (3)   | had useful details (4)  | read my mind (2) stuffing13 adult age 6
still, a great movie that pleased the adults and kids alike, excellent for the littlest ones while still enjoyable for the oldest ones including the grown-ups.
helped me decide (4) | had useful details (3) | read my mind (3) logicaldad parent
i considered bringing my 4yo to watch this movie, and am glad i did not.
of course it teaches kids a valuable lesson to respect the environment around them with witty humour and colourful songs.
if you are protective about what your children watch on tv, do not take them to see the lorax.
helped me decide (1) | had useful details (1) | read my mind(3) gbsfan teen, 17 years old age 6 liked it i liked it, i thought it had a good message.
the  movie was good even for older kids.
what other families should know educational positive messages  good role models flag as inappropriate   was this review useful?
i hope  my kid does not feel guilty for sitting on a wooden chair as it's made of the  corpse of a murdered tree.
and i know the movie is rated pg, but they are marketing this film to  first graders -- her teacher read the book to the class the week of the opening  and they made the trees as a craft.
select oneonpauseoffnot for kids for kids *
it's a cartoonish movie about a kids who sees dead  people.
me and my friend  thought some parts were really funny.
the lorax is too scary for little kids.
to those who consider the lorax dr. seuss' magnum opus, this adaptation will be at least somewhat a relief (unlike the miserable the cat in the hat ).
helped me decide (2) | had useful details (2) | read my mind (2) engk916 adult age 6 the movie was perfect for my first grader!
movie themes & details themes book characters, science and nature movie details studio: universal pictures director: chris renaud cast: danny devito, ed helms, taylor swift, zac efron genre: family and kids run time: 94 minutes theatrical release: march 2, 2012 mpaa rating: pg mpaa explanation: brief mild language this review was written bysandie angulo chen review it review dr. seuss' the lorax
| had useful details (4)  | read my mind (6) duquoi educator and parent of and 4 , 7 , 9 , 11 year old age 2
my first grader read the book  before seeing the movie and was mesmerized by the story.
common sense media search this site - home - reviews & advice - new reviews - movies - games - apps - websites - tv - books - music - top picks - advice - videos - advice - educators - movies in theaters - movies on dvd - educators - our programs - k-12 curriculum - educate parents - online training - blog - more resources - research - policy - about us - our mission - policy and advocacy - supporters - press room - donate - donate now movie details starring - danny devito - ed helms - taylor swift - zac efron genre more details see more movie reviews dr. seuss' the lorax (pg, 2012) 3 2011-12-05t16:24:00-08:00 common sense media common sense media says dr. seuss classic is cute, but watch for product tie-ins.
it's light and sweet and frames the original story in an easy-to-understand plot about a boy who wants to impress his tree-obsessed crush.
i wish i knew the movie was cute and not too far out of the realm of the book.
what other families should know positive messages good role models noticeable product placement flag as inappropriate was this review useful?
language: language includes "stupid" and "dumb.
- movie themes & details what to talk about talk to your kids - families can talk about the lorax's messages.
if it weren't an adaptation,the lorax would make for a fun, message-filled movie with a charming set of characters.
and how fun that it was released on dr seuss's birthday!
as you can imagine, his dead friends are not all nice looking and the preview was quite scary!
helped me decide (2) | had useful details (3) | read my mind(2) koj1 parent age 10 disappointed!
helped me decide (2) | had useful details (2) | read my mind (1) disney4ever123 kid, 10 years old age 6 the lorax in imax tree-d the lorax has good messages but should not get 5/5 stars for consumerism.
flag as inappropriate    was this review useful?
helped me decide (1)  | had useful details (2)  | read my mind (1) winkywink
- best movies - best games - best apps - best websites - best tv - best books - best music - about us - privacy policy - terms of use - press room - contact us - how we rate & review - community guidelines - distribute our content - join our team
the lorax teaches a valuable lesson about the importance of the natural world and protecting natural resources.
helped me decide(5) | had useful details (4) | read my mind (6) duquoi educator and parent of and 4 , 7 , 9 , 11 year old
the movie was cute and not too far out of the realm of  the book.
still, a great movie that pleased the  adults and kids alike, excellent for the littlest ones while still enjoyable  for the oldest ones including the grown-ups.
the image stuck in her mind and came back to her when it was time to go to bed.
what other families should know noticeable product placement  flag as inappropriate   was this review useful?
- cloudy with a chance of meatballs - how the grinch stole christmas - winnie the pooh
as ted learns more about the history of the truffula trees that the once-ler chopped down, his life is thneedville is challenged by the town's bigwig, mr. o'hare (rob riggle), who profits from the manufactured air that the citizens have been taught to buy and breathe.
it sneaks some product placement in the movie, but it's fine.
browse more of what we love - new kids' movies - katy perry music - adele music - dora the explorer music - chapter books: new york times bestsellers - pbs kids games and more - pbs kids tv - disney junior tv - free online games for girls - strong female characters in books © common sense media inc. 2012.
this movie was super cute and funny it good movie for all ages very funny the lorax was so funny and storying is very easy unstand for even little kids messenger save the trees was very good too is best movie take kids too jokes were kid friendly unlike some movies i would take whole family !
helped me decide(1) | had useful details (4) | read my mind (2)
we had to  leave 30 minutes into it.
more on dr. seuss' the lorax - what to talk about - what's the story?
unfortunately kids may be confused by these positive messages once they realize how many product tie-ins are associated with the movie (see "consumerism" section).
many social critics have slammed the studio for taking seuss' anti-consumerist message and turning it into an opportunity for the lorax to promote various products.
helped me decide (1) | had useful details (1) | read my mind(2) new man adult age 6 most likely ok
it's cheaper and easier.
helped me decide (4)  | had useful details (3)  | read my mind (3) logicaldad parent
kids will surely delight inthe lorax, but teens and parents savvy enough to recognize the irony of big-studio consumerism may wonder whether dr. seuss would have approved at all.
positive role models: at first ted is driven purely by his feelings for audrey, but then he decides to learn the story of the lorax and the truffula trees for himself and to help his entire town; ultimately he turns out to be a brave guy who stands up for what's right.
which ones were best translated into movies?
visit our fan page on facebook
the theme of environmental responsibility was not at all preachy, but conveyed simply enough so that my son said he felt sad when they cut down the last tree.
age 2 the lorax although the singing parts can get you lost its a really good movie watch it flag as inappropriate was this review useful?
flag as inappropriate   was  this review useful?
robbyboyfye16 teen, 15 years old age 4 fjdifijdi dr. seuss' and his cool hairy charecter
watch our videos on youtube you should follow us get daily updates on twitter download our iphone app get common sense to go
helped me decide(1) | had useful details (1) | read my mind (1) musicrock668 parent age 5 very kid friendly movie great for everyone !
nothing lasted long and everything ends well, but if you have a sensitive child, there may be a moment or two with their face in your shoulder.
the lorax is about a brave boy who tries to impress a girl gets involved into a battle of the trees.
message in this movie is that you cut a tree you are a murderer.
in the town of thneedville, there are no real trees, or grass, or nature to speak of -- everything is plastic and fake.
on the negative side, the once-ler breaks his promise and allows his family to convince him to chop down all the trees to make a profit.
flag as inappropriate   was this review useful?
(if you're looking for another take on the tale, try the excellent1970s adaptation -- it's shorter, but it doesn't have the pesky tie-ins to worry about.)
see what our editors recommend what we love
the storyline moved quickly, and the graphics and characters were developed enough to support the storyline.
this kind of movie as they are highly political and  never offer a constructive message as to using the planets resources  responsibly (i.e. trees).
age 6 liked it i liked it, i thought it had a good message.
select an age234567891011121314151617 is it any good?
however, based on what i read from this site's review, i formed the opinion that there weren't really any scary moments.
drinking, drugs, & smoking: not applicable.
spend their money on packaging, not nutritional content.
the movie go to an over  reach attempt to demonize business man or the use of natural resources.
the only thing that disappointed was the car thing, i am not sure if they should have used an suv in this type of movie.
our ratings and reviews are informed by child development guidelines.
the movie's 3-d (tree-d) is not worth the watch  though.
the star-studded voice cast does a fine job (the main characters are even named after dr. seuss -- theodore geisel -- and his widow, audrey), and the songs are all upbeat, if not randy newman-memorable.
there were two previews that were terrifying and the movie itself was scary.
the lorax was much better than i expected!
the once-ler redeems the greedy acts of his past.
and this is unusual for my  daughter.
it does the book justice completely.
helped me decide (1) | had useful details (1) | read my mind (1) skye_rowans teen, 14 years old age 8 amazing movie!!!!!
just  a warning to parents --
violence & scariness: the once-ler employs a huge machine attached to axes to chop down the truffula trees.
positive messages: like the book, the movie promotes an environmental message about conservation.
browse more movies - movies starring danny devito - family and kids movies - movies about book characters - see all movies about our rating system on: content is appropriate for kids this age.
message in this movie is that you cut a tree you are  a murderer.
the only thing  that disappointed was the car thing, i am not sure if they should have used an  suv in this type of movie.
totally disappointing...
robbyboyfye16 teen, 15 years old
what other families should know noticeable product placement flag as inappropriate was this review useful?
even though i am in 6th grade, i enjoyed it.
- see all parent reviews (12) - see all kid reviews (14)
savvy vote now will you see dr. seuss' the lorax?
we had to leave 30 minutes into it.
what a wonderful movie!
and this is unusual for my daughter.
the movie had great rolemodels,cute graphics and was overall an adorable family movie to go and see!
it's cheaper and  easier.
kids will leave the film wanting to do more to help the natural world ... too bad that take-away will be diluted by the onslaught of available merchandise with the lorax's bright-orange image on it.
please observe our guidelines.
it was too long, the first half was too slow, and those with an adopted child need to be aware of an insensitive comment on the theme.
i think the movie was fine for her to watch, but the trailer was not!
while the movie was as enjoyable as we thought it would be and the story was  charming and the kids gave it thumbs up, the parents left the theater a bit  disappointed--movie didn't give us a "wow--that was amazing" feeling  like we'd hoped and expected it to.
i saw this movie with one  of my friends and we both loved it even though we're teenagers!
an independent voice for families age-appropriate reviews - movies - tv shows - games - websites - apps - books - music advice on the big issues - spring movie preview - parent guide to high-tech toys - 6 ways to be media
what other families should know educational  positive messages good role models flag as inappropriate   was this review  useful?
flag as inappropriate    was this review useful?
appropriate movie so far !
what other families should know positive  messages good role models noticeable product placement flag as inappropriate    was this review useful?
seuss' book, the studio has agreed to more than 70 merchandise tie-ins, from the standard stuffed animals and figurines to the more egregious ihop pancake platter and mazda suv promotions (the latter has included school events in which kids are urged to ask their parents to test-drive the vehicle).
for kids who love dr. seuss - dr. seuss on dvd and tv - dr. seuss books - recommended movies lists
enjoyable for all ages, just minus the "wow" for parents.
helped me decide (1) | had useful details(1) | read my mind (1) stereohearts kid, 11 years old
are there any other dr. seuss books you'd like to see adapted?
having the lorax shill for an suv or themed breakfasts is counter to the spirit of the story -- which, at least in the movie, promotes a return to nature.
i saw this movie with one of my friends and we both loved it even though we're teenagers!
helped me decide | had useful details (1) | read my mind(1) more reviews ...
age 14 junk food for your eyes and ears this movie is not for children who  can't already recognize that attitudes expressed in a film may not be  appropriate or representative of real life.
audrey and grandma subvert the conventional idea that having plastic trees -- plasticeverything -- is better than real nature.
helped me decide(1)  | had useful details (4)  | read my mind (2)
my movie theater showed a trailer to paranorman which  totally freaked out my kids -- 1st and 3rd grade.
the theme of  environmental responsibility was not at all preachy, but conveyed simply enough  so that my son said he felt sad when they cut down the last tree.
you need to be a member to post your review.
junk food makers  spend their money on packaging, not nutritional content.
the common sense and common sense media names, associated trademarks and logos, including the decider slider and age ratings bugs, are trademarks of common sense media, a 501(c)3 non-profit corporation.
and i know the movie is rated pg, but they are marketing this film to first graders -- her teacher read the book to the class the week of the opening and they made the trees as a craft.
beautiful, to attract you, but empty, even negative at the core.
he also imagines kissing her earlier in the film.
the movie's 3-d (tree-d) is not worth the watch though.
helped me decide(1) | had useful details (1) | read my mind (1) poe-ette teen, 13 years old age 5 awesome for all ages!
on the fence no way already seen it?
and how fun that it was released  on dr seuss's birthday!
helped me decide (1)  | had useful details  (3)  | read my mind (2) purplepenguin5 kid, 11 years  old age 6 good movie
it's a cartoonish movie about a kids who sees dead people.
a marvelous family film.
as i expected, it was funny, clever, slightly sad, and kind of dark at places.
the  image stuck in her mind and came back to her when it was time to go to bed.
helped me decide (2) | had useful details (4) | read my mind (2) drothschild0 parent age 7
the movie was good even for older kids.
i just came back from watching this movie with my 5 year old kid.
education: the world unless is used to emphasize the environmental issue positive: it teaches kids to treat the earth with air.
flag as inappropriate was this review useful?
but every cloud has a silver  lining: the film would be very good for teaching bad writing.
me and my friend thought some parts were really funny.
helped me decide (2)  | had useful details (2)  | read my mind (2) engk916 adult age 6 the movie was perfect for my first grader!
helped me decide (2)  | had useful details (2)  | read my mind (1) disney4ever123 kid, 10 years old age 6 the lorax in imax tree-d the lorax has good messages but should not  get 5/5 stars for consumerism.
what are some ways that parents and kids can make a difference to the environment?
the movie will make kids think about where their stuff comes from, whether having too much stuff is a good thing, and what the consequences of their actions might be.
especially my 1st grader who  only watched a second of it before covering her eyes for the remainder.
advised by his grandmother (betty white), ted leaves thneedville in search of the reclusive once-ler (ed helms), who tells him the story of the lorax (danny devito).
- what are your favorite dr. seuss stories?
just a warning to parents --
its absolutely great!
i chose to take my 4 year old and even though she tells me now that it wasn't scary, there were quite a few moments that she ended up in my lap or covering her eyes; thunder and lightning before the lorax shows up, when the onceler first looks through the window, and some of the intimidation moments from the bottled air guy - i'm sure there were more.
age 14 junk food for your eyes and ears this movie is not for children who can't already recognize that attitudes expressed in a film may not be appropriate or representative of real life.
if there is any, its too subtle to be noticed.
- donate become a fan
a few characters are hit in the face with various objects (marshmallows, a hammer), but there's no lasting harm.
- what made kids want to see this movie -- the story or all the product tie-ins?
helped me decide (1) | had useful details (2) | read my mind (1) winkywink adult age 3 love it..
this kind of movie as they are highly political and never offer a constructive message as to using the planets resources responsibly (i.e. trees).
i just came back from watching this movie with my 5  year old kid.
helped me decide (1) | had useful details (3) | read my mind (2) baltimore joe silk parent
ted is a courageous boy and audrey is passionate about the environment.
the lorax bring  many laughs with educational stuff about trees  what other families should know educational positive messages good role models flag as inappropriate    was this review useful?
i considered  bringing my 4yo to watch this movie, and am glad i did not.
the problem is that passionate lovers of the lorax will expect more; they'll hope for a movie as timeless and important as seuss' subversive commentary on the perils of conspicuous consumption and forsaking the environment to benefit the almighty dollar.
a safe community is important to us.
teen, 14 years old age 8 great movie...nomatter how old your are!
the ending was very uplifting and the charectors were completely fleshed out.
although common sense media notes consumerism, i couldn't really find a mention of any products, and neither could the three people i went with.
it's a pass great alternatives handpicked by our editors other beloved picture books on film - dr. seuss' horton hears a who!
helped me decide (2) | had useful details (2) | read my mind(3) jessiesmom parent age 6 watch out for the trailer of paranormal -- too scary for kids!
the scariest part was actually one of the previews for a movie called  "paranorman".
what other families should know educational positive messages good role models flag as inappropriate was this review useful?
well i have not seen this movie yet but just wanted to remeined parents that this is rated pg ok not g ps also the basic plot is a guy who has a crush on a girl hope this helps what other families should know good role models sexual behavior isn't appropriate flag as inappropriate was this review useful?
i think the movie was fine for her to  watch, but the trailer was not!
if you are protective about  what your children watch on tv, do not take them to see the lorax.
the lorax was much better  than i expected!
when young ted (voiced byzac efron) discovers that what his crush, audrey (taylor swift), wants more than anything is to see a real tree, he sets out to find one for her.
what parents & educators say age 7 based on12 parent & educator reviews: read the reviews - 33% say there are positive role models - 33% say there are positive messages most useful reviews by all members minniemousegal - all members - parents & educators - teens & kids
she would need to  be at least 6yo to appreciate this movie.
i will have lots of explaining to do.
age 4 fjdifijdi dr. seuss' and his cool hairy charecter
how do kids feel about the fact that one of their favorite characters is being used to sell products that might not be good for the earth?
the main issue here is really the movie's huge number of consumerist tie-ins -- at least 70 different marketing promotions.
my movie theater showed a trailer to paranorman which totally freaked out my kids -- 1st and 3rd grade.
pause: know your child, some content may not be right for some kids off: not age appropriate for kids this age
nothing lasted long and everything ends well, but if you  have a sensitive child, there may be a moment or two with their face in your  shoulder.
however, based on what i read from this site's review, i formed the  opinion that there weren't really any scary moments.
review it - 33% say there are positive role models - 33% say there are positive messages what parents need to know parents need to know that this animated adaptation of dr. seuss' beloved tale of the lorax is age-appropriate for younger kids; there's little scary stuff, and the pro-environmental message is a positive one.
parents & educators say see all 26 reviews |
still, the movie itself -- like the original story -- promotes conservation and protecting the environment.
especially my 1st grader who only watched a second of it before covering her eyes for the remainder.
she was crying that she couldn't stop thinking about it.
the storyline moved quickly, and the graphics and characters  were developed enough to support the storyline.
helped me decide (1) | had useful details (3) | read my mind (2) purplepenguin5 kid, 11 years old age 6 good movie
it was too long, the first half was too  slow, and those with an adopted child need to be aware of an insensitive  comment on the theme.
the movie go to an over reach attempt to demonize business man or the use of natural resources.
helped me decide (1)  | had useful details (1)  | read  my mind(3) gbsfan teen, 17 years old
that's what this movie is: a junk food version of dr seuss.
i hope my kid does not feel guilty for sitting on a wooden chair as it's made of the corpse of a murdered tree.
at one point, the once-ler and a baby barbaloot are floating on a mattress toward a waterfall, but neither is injured.
it also suggests the danger of giving into materialistic impulses that can damage the environment.
helped me decide (1) | had useful details (1) | read my mind(1) bookworm456 kid, 11 years old age 4 eco and family friendly movie cute movie with a good message.
there were  two previews that were terrifying and the movie itself was scary.
the lorax bring many laughs with educational stuff about trees what other families should know educational positive messages good role models flag as inappropriate was this review useful?
the scariest part was actually one of the previews for a movie called "paranorman".
do kids want a product because the lorax is on it?
while the movie was as enjoyable as we thought it would be and the story was charming and the kids gave it thumbs up, the parents left the theater a bit disappointed--movie didn't give us a "wow--that was amazing" feeling like we'd hoped and expected it to.
helped me decide (2)  | had useful details (3)  |  read my mind(2) koj1 parent age 10 disappointed!
what does it want viewers to take away from the story?
but the studio has already marred that idea with its constant parading of various lorax-approved products.
she would need to be at least 6yo to appreciate this movie.
jessiesmom parent age 6 watch out for the trailer of paranormal -- too scary for kids!
what other families should know educational positive messages flag as inappropriate   was this review  useful?
for an anti-materialism story to advertise so many products to kids and their parents sends a particularly confusing message.
overall really good movie.
my first grader read the book before seeing the movie and was mesmerized by the story.