these are what jean moon and susan rundell singer, in their backpage  edweek commentary onbringing stem into focus, want to be sure schools are  focusing on: re-visioning school science around science and engineering practices, such  as model-building, data analysis, and evidence-based reasoning, is a  transformative step, a step found in the nrc report, which is critical to stem  learners and teachers, both k-12 and postsecondary.
most of the words we acquire we learn not through memorization or direct instruction, but in context.
while  core knowledge is heavy in history and geography, delaware standards demand  more economics and civics.
they also care  about big ideas, which they divide into two categories: “crosscutting  concepts (major ideas that cut across disciplines)”, and  “disciplinary core ideas (ideas with major explanatory power across  science and engineering disciplines.”
it wasn’t that the core knowledge foundation  didn’t believe that economics and civics were important.
i still can’t exactly tell the difference between the rolling stones, led zeppelin and other famous rock bands, though i at least know a phrase or two from popular songs.
students should read as much nonfiction as fiction.
we’re readers only when we understand the words we  decode, and comprehension isnot a skill, despite our persistent  attempts toteach and test it like one.
the entire proposition is that knowledge and vocabulary are a “slow growing plant,”
we found that the  school’s curriculum not only met, but exceeded the state standards.
we only make social and economic progress by teaching everybody to read and communicate, which means teaching myths and facts that are predominantly traditional.
the quiz  covered material they would have covered in their college classes in 3-4 weeks  of class.
but unlike most kids today (and a good many adults) i could liken the  experience of tubing on the white clay creek to a huck finn adventure.
the concept of  ‘philosophy’ is completely foreign to them.
on the other hand, it completely undermines their insistence that testing inevitably leads poor beleaguered educators to teach to the test, to narrow the curriculum, and even to cheat and lie out of the sheer pressure.
but our school’s 11-year-olds would be laughing out loud!
“the study found that second graders who were taught to read using the core knowledge program scored significantly higher on reading comprehension tests than did those in the comparison schools.”
we’ve experimented with shrinking school and  class sizes.
we’re readers only when we understand the words we decode, and comprehension isnot a skill, despite our persistent attempts toteach and test it like one.
there is no shortcut to building the vocabulary and background knowledge that drives comprehension.
“for three years, a pilot program tracked the reading ability of approximately 1,000 students at 20 new york city schools, following them from kindergarten through second grade.
put a piece of text in front of them and they could all (some with greater fluency than others certainly) verbalize the words in front of them, or “decode.”
true, a patient investment in knowledge and language growth will raise scores over time, but the key phrase isover time.
a child’s ability to take in information through reading typically doesn’t catch up to his or her ability to do so by listening until the 8th grade.
we’ve attempted to set high standards and given high-stakes tests.
“for three years, a pilot program tracked the reading ability of  approximately 1,000 students at 20 new york city schools, following them from  kindergarten through second grade.
in a democratic society, it is publiceducation that should be the equalizing force.
it is not a curriculum, a movement, or a reform.
to understand the nature of language growth and the critical role of knowledge to is to understand that there can be no quick fixes.
to understand the nature of language growth and  the critical role of knowledge to is to understand that there can be no quick  fixes.
pop quiz: how many of the last ten books you read to your class were nonfiction?
we’re getting kids in the game.
but unlike most kids today (and a good many adults) i could liken the experience of tubing on the white clay creek to a huck finn adventure.
things, for example, like “model  building,” “data analysis,” and “communicating  findings.”
furthermore, delpit goes on to describe the reality of the culture of power  that myself and my students have to deal with with and
in a bit of practical philosophy, you need the master’s tools to dismantle the gate.
you’re more likely to hear words like  “orbit,” “zenith,” “solar,” or  “celestial,” in a book on astronomy.
what they couldn’t seem to do consistently and competently was to discuss or answer questions about their reading.
if you look at figures plotting  naep scores over the last 30 years, any upward slope in the data is nearly  undetectable to the naked eye.
but the smartbrief headlinelinks to a smart edweek piece from donalyn miller, a 6th grade language arts teacher in texas, on the benefits of read alouds, including “building community,” “exposing kids to new authors and genres,” and “supporting developing readers.”
the rules of the culture of power are a  reflection of the rules of the culture of those who have power.
these are what jean moon and susan rundell singer, in their backpage edweek commentary onbringing stem into focus, want to be sure schools are focusing on: re-visioning school science around science and engineering practices, such as model-building, data analysis, and evidence-based reasoning, is a transformative step, a step found in the nrc report, which is critical to stem learners and teachers, both k-12 and postsecondary.
if anything, miller undersells the value of reading aloud.
ofthe little engine that could.
there  are no shortage of age appropriate, richly illustrated nonfiction picture books  that would go a long way toward building prior knowledge on these and many  other topics that are a natural extension
but  read alouds should be for more than just stories and poems.
you didn’t understand the meaning behind the punch  line’s reference to a “trojan horse.”
his pivot is important and it is one i recognize as vital to the project of educating students from environments that aren’t middle class or white, particularly as i educate them for a future where hopefully, because of their educational credentials, they have to engage and be a part of that world.
this week, the core knowledge foundation, where i work, announced the results of an intriguing pilot program that sees reading for the complicated, cumulative process it is.
traditionally educated themselves, and highly literate, these self-appointed protectors of minority cultures have advised schools to pursue a course that has condemned minorities to illiteracy.
but this oral comprehension advantage can also be used  to build background knowledge in a systematic, coherent way over many years.
if we wait until a child can read independently to build background knowledge and vocabulary, we are almost certainly cementing their knowledge and language deficits permanently in place.
thus readalouds build language proficiency by exposing kids to sophisticated language well above their independent reading level.
say what you will about ccss, but there are three big ideas embedded within  the english language arts standards that deserve to be at the very heart of  literacy instruction in u.s. classrooms, with or with or without standards  themselves: 1.
say what you will about ccss, but there are three big ideas embedded within the english language arts standards that deserve to be at the very heart of literacy instruction in u.s. classrooms, with or with or without standards themselves: 1.
schools should ensure all children—and especially disadvantaged  children—build coherent background knowledge that is essential to mature  reading comprehension.
they were exposed to that which binds our culture  together, a common understanding — cultural literacy.
those who wish to function in the world of the “haves” need to know what they know.
yes, there is more  nonfiction in core knowledge than is typically taught in the early grades, but  fiction and poetry are equally represented.
by robert pondiscio tags: language proficiency, readalouds, vocabulary posted in core  knowledge, education practice, teaching | 10 comments » part of my required reading is the daily accomplished teacher smartbrief, a  summary of education news.
students taught with an explicit, systematic phonics  approach in the early grades should be able to master all the decoding skills  they need.
if there is anything that  ensures a low-level of academic achievement it is the idea that kids can only  learn from their direct experiences.
you could easily look at the test scores of my students and conclude, “these kids can’t read.”
in order to read, write, speak and  listen with comprehension, children need more content, not less.
the greatest casualty of the education reform era has been patience.
at least not one that has been proven effective.
well, no.  it would not be more sensible.
p.s.  142, a school in lower manhattan hard by the williamsburg bridge “has  made real life experiences the center of academic lessons,” the paper  notes, “in hopes of improving reading and math skills by broadening  children’s frames of reference.”
and, of course, i learned none of this  in school.
the  greatest casualty of the education reform era has been patience.
we learn new words by understanding the context in which we hear unfamiliar words.
what many minority  parents see as the role of schooling and education: there are codes or rules for participating in power; that tis, there is a  “culture of power.”
today’s miracle becomes tomorrow’s scandal with  depressing regularity.
lisa delpit, a personal hero of mine, writes about this challenge inother people’s children: progressive white teachers seem to say to their black students, “let me help you find your voice.
we learn vocabulary primarily in  context, not by memorization.
my students did  well.
“reading with comprehension assumes a shared prior knowledge,” the times notes.
he is a yale university teacher  preparation program graduate  — rp.
we’ve tried to bring market pressures to bear through charters and choice.
“reading aloud removes roadblocks to comprehension like unfamiliar vocabulary and contextualizes words developing readers do not know.
ckla has two distinct instructional components: a “skills” strand that teaches decoding; and a “listening and learning” strand that builds background knowledge and vocabulary, primarily through readalouds.
what they couldn’t seem to  do consistently and competently was to discuss or answer questions about their  reading.
most of them are hard working, quick-witted  and sharp.
students in ten demographically similar control schools received more traditional reading instruction—the kind of balanced literacy, content-agnostic, comprehension skills-and-strategies approach i was trained to use with my south bronx 5th graders.
[…] but parents who don’t function within that culture often want something else.
i recently showed a quiz on islam i was giving my students to a couple of friends of mine who have attended college and taken classes on islam.
if there is anything that ensures a low-level of academic achievement it is the idea that kids can only learn from their direct experiences.
a local superintendent says he wished more principals  would adopt the program but that they’re fearful.
but she shows her contempt for children in her assumption that if it’s not a part of a child’s everyday experience they couldn’t possibly be interested or expected to appreciate or understand it.
if you are expected to show at least one year’s growth in one year’s time (a concept i’ve never been able to wrap my mind around) you are far more likely to resort defensively to test-prep and “reading strategies” instruction rather than teach material that might not show up on a state exam this year, or ever.
core knowledge provides a path to all of the most desirable education goals: the ability to think critically and problem solve, greater reading comprehension, and higher test scores — because all of these things are functions of a broad base of background knowledge.
the former include “scale,  proportion, and “quantity or the use of patterns;” the authors  don’t cite any examples of the latter.
in an astonishing commentary in education week, joanne yatvin, past  president of the national council of teachers of english (!) reads the common  core ela standards and pronounces herself “truly alarmed” and  “aghast at the vision of the dreariness and harshness of the classrooms  they aim to create.”
in fact, i never had a single student who couldn’t  “read.”
core knowledge provides a path to all of the most desirable  education goals: the ability to think critically and problem solve, greater  reading comprehension, and higher test scores — because all of these  things are functions of a broad base of background knowledge.
but the reality is that these results are appalling—particularly if  you consider the massive federal funding increases, intense reform debates, and  the incessant promises of new technologies that have dominated the education  discussion for nearly two decades.
which is exactly why we need to expand a child’s base of knowledge, not view it as too high a hurdle to clear.
his pivot is important and it is one i recognize as vital to the project of  educating students from environments that aren’t middle class or white,  particularly as i educate them for a future where hopefully, because of their  educational credentials, they have to engage and be a part of that world.
but you’re not a low-income kid who has never sat in a car.
you could easily look at the test  scores of my students and conclude, “these kids can’t read.”
a visit to the core knowledge auto body shop by robert pondiscio tags: background knowledge, core knowledge, language proficiency, reading  comprehension posted in core knowledge, curriculum, education practice,  literacy, teaching | 11 comments » the new york times offers up a piece about a new york city school that has  put building background knowledge at the heart of its curriculum.
not that this is all that moon and singer care about.
they also care about big ideas, which they divide into two categories: “crosscutting concepts (major ideas that cut across disciplines)”, and “disciplinary core ideas (ideas with major explanatory power across science and engineering disciplines.”
since listening comprehension is higher than reading  comprehension, you can read books that are a higher reading level than your  students can read alone.”
oral language precedes written language; we learn to speak and listen long  before we can read and write.
i promise not to criticize one note as you search  for your own song.”
they usually come to school on day  one with smaller vocabularies and less background knowledge of the world than  more advantaged kids, who tend to hear more rich and complex language at home  and enjoy more opportunities for language and knowledge enrichment.
“ultimately, the authors show their contempt for teachers’
if there’s a secret sauce in the curriculum, it probably has as much to do with its emphasis on building background knowledge orally.
all  the reading strategies instruction in the worldcan’t compensate.
equally important, however, is preparing them for the culture  shock that many collegiate environments will be for them, particularly the  further away they get from the city of houston.
we’ve focused on “21st century skills” and used the latest technologies.
they are held to more rigorous standards that i and many of my fellow yale alumni were held during high school.
this op-ed by gregory r. meece, school director of newark charter  school, a core knowledgevisitation school, originally  appeared in thenews journal in wilmington, delaware.
building knowledge and vocabulary remain the royal road to reading comprehension.
unfortunately it really doesn’t work that  way,” university of virginia cognitive scientist dan willingham has written on this blog.
the disadvantaged students for whom  antielitist solicitude is expressed are the very ones who suffer when we fail  to introduce traditional literate culture into the earliest grades.
so let’s draw on such successes and, sure, conduct more research, do more experiments, and spend more money.
i promise not to criticize one note as you search for your own song.”
and performance data strongly suggests that these curricula work for all students.
stern’s piece, he writes, “supports the idea that we need a broad curriculum, etc.
we learn vocabulary primarily in context, not by memorization.
knowledge of things like standard algorithms, poetry, america’s past, foreign languages, great painters, chemistry, our form of government, and much more.
the only way to raise achievement and to narrow gaps is through a  slow and steady investment in the vocabulary and knowledge that are the  prerequisites of language growth and competence.
what they don’t mention is underlyingcontent , except to say: lest some believe this is setting up another false dichotomy in science or mathematics education between content and process, let us quickly add a strong evidentiary note: epistemic practices and the learning and knowledge produced through such practices as building models, arguing from evidence, and communicating findings increase the likelihood that students will learn the ideas of science or engineering and mathematics at a deeper, more enduring level than otherwise would be the case.
even the game of baseball is a mystery to most them.
all the reading strategies instruction in the worldcan’t compensate.
we expect two to three years language growth per year to catch disadvantaged children up.
“the study found that second graders who were taught to read using  the core knowledge program scored significantly higher on reading comprehension  tests than did those in the comparison schools.”
these feel-good  initiatives typically offer vague theories of learning at the expense of  coherent content.
tags: common core state standards, education week, english language arts, vocabulary posted in core knowledge, curriculum, education practice, educational policy, literacy, teaching | 42 comments »
“in early february the second graders went around the block to study muni-meters and parking signs.
rather, it found  that schools became so enamored with “social studies” that they  forgot to teach world and american history and geography.
we found that the school’s curriculum not only met, but exceeded the state standards.
for several years, i taught 5th grade in the lowest performing elementary  school in new york city’s lowest performing school district.
at our campus, we talk  openly about college-readiness as our standard.
nonfiction read alouds: a lost opportunity?
in order to read, write, speak and listen with comprehension, children need more content, not less.
in the words of columnist william raspberry  writing about the need for core knowledge schools in african-american  communities, “the more you know, the smarter you get.”
many “have-nots” didn’t.
there are no shortage of age appropriate, richly illustrated nonfiction picture books that would go a long way toward building prior knowledge on these and many other topics that are a natural extension ofthe little engine that could.
the same principles that make it worthwhile to read fiction aloud are even more true for nonfiction.
but there are far more problems with a view of literacy and teaching that boils down to “meet the children where they are…and keep them there.”
for decades, american public schooling has veered toward so-called  “reforms” in curriculum and instruction.
hirsch realized that there was something missing from what nearly every  other “expert” on education was writing about — namely,  common sense.
knowledge of things like standard algorithms, poetry,  america’s past, foreign languages, great painters, chemistry, our form of  government, and much more.
lisa  delpit, a personal hero of mine, writes about this challenge inother  people’s children: progressive white teachers seem to say to their black students, “let  me help you find your voice.
so while it certainly it makes sense to connect words to kids “everyday lives and experiences” it’s something very close to educational malpractice not to make a concerted effort to expand a child’s knowledge base beyond their immediate experiences.
because that’s what it really is.
effortless engagement, not knowledge, is the goal.
a couple of quick anecdotes will suffice: only 6 of my 125 students have seen any star wars movie.
by underscoring what matters most in the standards, the criteria illustrate what shifts must take place in the next generation of curricula, including paring away elements that distract from or are at odds with the common core state standards.
oral language precedes written language; we learn to speak and listen long before we can read and write.
she teaches at the university of pennsylvania graduate school of education and at the drexel university school of education, specializing in the education of children on the autistic spectrum.
a content-rich curriculum isn’t the only reason for a school’s
as an educator who is  training students to enter a culture of power that is not theirs, i have to  make it explicit and i have to teach the cultural literacy behind the  institutions of power they’ll have to navigate.
she’s completely correct on all of these points, but further  explication is worthwhile.
the new york city pilot study is an encouraging first step.
it’s gratifying to see this point rendered as if it’s widely known in our schools.
“the mainspring of comprehension is prior knowledge—the stuff readers already know that enables them to create understanding as they read.”
the “no standing” example illustrates perfectly how easily a  lack of shared references and experiences conspire to thwart  comprehension.
interestingly, all of these reforms have one thing in common (aside from their failure to improve student performance except in isolated instances): none deals directly with the content of what we teach our students.
this is critical for children from low-income homes and especially those where english is a second language.
katharine beals, phd is the author of raising a left-brain child in a right-brain world: strategies for helping bright, quirky, socially awkward children to thrive at home and at school.
it’s social justice.
four out of five of my students scored below grade level—often far below  grade level—on their state tests.
this patient, coherent investment in background knowledge—so critical  to success yet so often missing from language arts instruction—needs to  be nurtured and grown for the entirety of a child’s time in school.
the  standards “overestimate the intellectual, physiological, and emotional  development of young children,” she writes.
most of the words we acquire  we learn not through memorization or direct instruction, but in context.
a lot of people whose opinions i respect don’t care much for common  core state standards (ccss).
but the reality is that these results are appalling—particularly if you consider the massive federal funding increases, intense reform debates, and the incessant promises of new technologies that have dominated the education discussion for nearly two decades.
it puts forward the message that knowledge-building practices found under the stem umbrella are practices frequently held in common by stem professionals across the disciplines as they investigate, model, communicate, and explain the natural and designed world.
teachers generally  understand this, which is why class readalouds are a staple of elementary  school classrooms.
traditionally educated themselves, and highly literate, these self-appointed  protectors of minority cultures have advised schools to pursue a course that  has condemned minorities to illiteracy.
it got to the point  where the late-show comics were having a field day interviewing adults on the  street who couldn’t locate china on a map.
half of the schools adopted a curriculum  designed by the education theoriste. d. hirsch jr.’s core knowledge  foundation.
this patient, coherent investment in background knowledge—so critical to success yet so often missing from language arts instruction—needs to be nurtured and grown for the entirety of a child’s time in school.
but parents who don’t function within that culture often want  something else.
the same principles that make it worthwhile to read fiction  aloud are even more true for nonfiction.
“the inner workings of a locomotive,” but colors, mountains, trains and transportation, to name but a few.
you can’t simply slam into it repeatedly.
and this is in reading and math where, to the detriment of so many other core subjects, we’ve aimed nearly all of our firepower.
news flash: it’s precisely the lack of coherent background knowledge—the kind of taken-for-granted knowledge of the world, and the gains in vocabulary that accompany it—that is holding back reading comprehension and language growth among our most disadvantaged children.
yesterday’s email carried the subject line, “are there benefits to reading aloud?”
it is one thing for a child to readthe little engine that could for the pleasure of the story and quite another for her to comprehend the inner workings of a locomotive.”
they learned new vocabulary words, like ‘parking,’ ‘violations’ and ‘bureau.’
we’ve collected and analyzed data on an unprecedented scale.
the disadvantaged students for whom antielitist solicitude is expressed are the very ones who suffer when we fail to introduce traditional literate culture into the earliest grades.
there are a few widely used curricula (e.g.  international baccalaureate, latin schools curricula, core knowledge) that  effectively incorporate much of this knowledge base.
news flash: it’s precisely the lack of coherent background  knowledge—the kind of taken-for-granted knowledge of the world, and the  gains in vocabulary that accompany it—that is holding back reading  comprehension and language growth among our most disadvantaged children.
yatvin’s bill of particulars boils down to a complaint that all that subject matter content is too hard, too soon and too boring for children.
the rules of the culture of power are a reflection of the rules of the culture of those who have power.
“to do this you’d have to be willing to take the long view.”
“at this time in their development, would it not be more sensible for children to learn words connected to their everyday lives and their interests rather than to things and experiences as yet unknown?”
readalouds not only grow  vocabulary, they are the best way to build critical background knowledge, which  is essential for later reading comprehension.
still the piece ends on a  bittersweet note.
they are held to more rigorous standards that i and many of my  fellow yale alumni were held during high school.
some think them no better or even worse than  their existing state standards.
the  only one that’s not fiction and poetry is a memoir byhatchet author gary paulsen.
equally important, however, is preparing them for the culture shock that many collegiate environments will be for them, particularly the further away they get from the city of houston.
if anything, miller undersells the value of  reading aloud.
the  scope and sequence of core knowledge was developed by university professor e.  d. hirsch, jr. and the core knowledge foundation after years of  consensus-building among teachers, scholars, scientists, and others.
but our school’s  11-year-olds would be laughing out loud!
those who evade this inherent conservatism of literacy in the name of multicultural antielitism are in in effect elitists of an extreme sort.
plus, nonfiction often has rich, domain-specific vocabulary.
the other 10 used a variety of methods, but most fell under the  definition of “balanced literacy,” an approach that was spread  citywide by former schools chancellorjoel i. klein, beginning in 2003.
“reading aloud removes roadblocks to comprehension like unfamiliar  vocabulary and contextualizes words developing readers do not know.
the role of a democratic “common school” is to make sure that  “intellectual capital” is not only for the privileged.
competence, the use of supplementary materials, and children’s  experiences,” yatvin claims.
these things either need to be taught explicitly or experienced first-hand.
and, of course, i learned none of this in school.
analysts have spent the last few days slicing  and dicing this data and making unconvincing arguments that some positive  trends can be detected.
knowledge of baseball, the godfather and star wars may seem  trivial, but they are symptoms of a much larger conundrum: the inability to  gather the tokens of a privileged culture they will have to enter in college  and in larger american life.
tags: constructivism, engineering, facts, hands-on learning, math, science posted in core knowledge, curriculum, education news, education practice, research and reports, students, teaching | 2 comments » the following guest post is by katharine beals, who blogs about education atout in left field, where this post also appears.
and it is the student who comes from a disadvantaged background who is cheated by it the most.
furthermore, the point is to arm them for a future where they can create a  fundamentally more fair world.
research evidence consistently supports this assertion.
and we’ve paid dearly in tax dollars and in other ways for each of these  “reforms.”
in light of the poor results other approaches have yielded, is  there any other sane course?
“this is a pretty strong dose of academia for children just beginning their schooling, with not even a ‘spoonful of sugar to make the medicine go down,” she writes, forgetting that the teachers are free to dispense as many spoonfuls of c6h12o6 as they see fit to enable the prescription to enter the digestive tract.
these  things either need to be taught explicitly or experienced first-hand.
as one parent demanded, “my kids know how to be black – you all teach them how to be successful int he white man’s world.”
are there problems with common core standards?
if you are not  already a participant in the culture of power, being told explicitly the rules  of that culture makes acquiring power easier.
yet yatvin also doesn’t much care for the “significant increase in nonfiction materials at all grade levels” and ccss’s call for “a mix of 50 percent literary and 50 percent informational text, including reading in [english/language arts], science, social studies, and the arts.”
she blogs about education atkitchen table math and on her own blog,  out in left field.
students taught with an explicit, systematic phonics approach in the early grades should be able to master all the decoding skills they need.
i’m a yale university teacher preparation program graduate.
a lot of people whose opinions i respect don’t care much for common core state standards (ccss).
hirsch calls  it “intellectual velcro.”
but she shows her contempt for  children in her assumption that if it’s not a part of a child’s  everyday experience they couldn’t possibly be interested or expected to  appreciate or understand it.
knowledge builds on knowledge.
i cannot, in good  conscience, pretend that their cultural experiences will be valued for all that
it’s hard not to detect a certain worry among those who write stem articles for education week that the drive to educate students for careers in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics might include a drive to increase core scientific and mathematical content at the expense of things that constructivists hold dear.
since listening comprehension is higher than reading comprehension, you can read books that are a higher reading level than your students can read alone.”
you didn’t understand the meaning behind the punch line’s reference to a “trojan horse.”
with  care and patience, we can keep them there.
what i mean by  “content” is the actual knowledge that is imbedded in quality  curricula.
half of the schools adopted a curriculum designed by the education theoriste. d. hirsch jr.’s core knowledge foundation.
readalouds are more than just an opportunity for a class to enjoy a great story together.
language growth is a slow growing plant,e.d. hirsch points out.
posted in core knowledge, education practice, education theory, teaching | 28 comments » a version of this post originally appeared at socially produced, a blog written by fernando reyes, a 10th grade world history instructor at yes prep sw, in houston, and is reprinted with his permission.
core knowledge is a coherent list of what every american student through  8th grade should know.
indeed, because reading tests arede facto tests of background knowledge, there is every reason not to expect the results to show for several years when the cumulative effect of broad knowledge acquisition asserts itself.
content-rich, nonfiction readalouds, often in narrative form, are a central feature of the ckla program and a powerful way to build a child’s store of vocabulary and knowledge–critical components of mature reading comprehension.
posted incore knowledge, curriculum, education leadership | 6 comments »
you’re more likely to hear words like “orbit,” “zenith,” “solar,” or “celestial,” in a book on astronomy.
the results show up in the long term.
even the game of  baseball is a mystery to most them.
the  primary takeaway from the research, tailored for our 140-character age, was  “new study finds nonfiction curriculum enhances reading comprehension  skills.”
i’m alarmed and aghast that anyone can fail to connect building  background knowledge with language growth, or long-term success in reading  comprehension.
“the fact that fiction now dominates the elementary curriculum is not  the result of educators’ decisions about what is best for children, but a  reflection of children’s developmental stages, their interests, and their  limited experience in the fields of science, geography, history, and  technology.
the problem is, if we only teach children  about their neighborhoods they are forever limited by the boundaries of those  neighborhoods.
in the updated edition, hirsch discusses his central thesis: a shared cultural literacy “enables grandparents to communicate with grandchildren, southerners with midwesterners, whites with blacks, asians with latinos, and republicans with democrats – no matter where they were educated.
they want to ensure that the school provides their children with discourse patterns, interreactional styles and spoken and written language codes that will allow them success in the larger society.
this oral language advantage persists for years.
not that this is all that moon and singer care about.
if you’re not building background knowledge,you’re not teaching reading .
if  this gap remains unaddressed in school, then demographics becomes, if not  destiny, then a self-fulfilling prophecy.
in an astonishing commentary in education week, joanne yatvin, past president of the national council of teachers of english (!) reads the common core ela standards and pronounces herself “truly alarmed” and “aghast at the vision of the dreariness and harshness of the classrooms they aim to create.”
but the education establishment cautioned that a curriculum that exposed fifth graders to atoms, molecules and compounds and sixth graders to plate tectonics was developmentally inappropriate (translation: “hard and boring”).
now, i want to teach you to harmonize with the rest  of the world.”
we’ve collected and analyzed data on an  unprecedented scale.
some think them no better or even worse than their existing state standards.
call it “test prep.”
on tuesday morning naep reported that, in the course of two years, our nation’s 4th and 8th graders improved a single point (on a 500-point scale) in three of four reading and math assessments, and flatlined on the fourth.
i’m a yale  university teacher preparation program graduate.
which is exactly why we need to expand a child’s base of  knowledge, not view it as too high a hurdle to clear.
yes, there is more nonfiction in core knowledge than is typically taught in the early grades, but fiction and poetry are equally represented.
munson is common  core’sexecutive director and a former deputy chairman of the national  endowment for the humanities — rp.
the only way to raise achievement and to narrow gaps is through a slow and steady investment in the vocabulary and knowledge that are the prerequisites of language growth and competence.
so while it certainly it makes sense to connect words to kids “everyday  lives and experiences” it’s something very close to educational  malpractice not to make a concerted effort to expand a child’s knowledge  base beyond their immediate experiences.
and  it is the student who comes from a disadvantaged background who is cheated by  it the most.
we’ve experimented with a seemingly endless array of “strategies” for teaching reading and math and have tried to “differentiate” for every imaginable “type” of student.
i grew up in a home filled with “core  knowledge.”
reading and language growth: what it takes by robert pondiscio tags: core knowledge language arts, literacy, oral language, reading,  vocabulary posted in core knowledge, curriculum, education practice,  teaching | 21 comments » note:  this piece also appears on the washington post’s  education blog,the answer sheet.
but you’re not a  low-income kid who has never sat in a car.
the “haves” in this country had “core  knowledge” in their homes too.
i grew up in a home filled with “core knowledge.”
but the smartbrief headlinelinks  to a smart edweek piece from donalyn miller, a 6th grade language arts teacher  in texas, on the benefits of read alouds, including “building  community,” “exposing kids to new authors and genres,” and  “supporting developing readers.”
the concept of ‘philosophy’ is completely foreign to them.
put a piece of text in front of them and they could  all (some with greater fluency than others certainly) verbalize the words in  front of them, or “decode.”
call it “test prep.”  because that’s what it really  is.
i still can’t exactly tell the difference between the rolling  stones, led zeppelin and other famous rock bands, though i at least know a  phrase or two from popular songs.
her smoking gun is within the publisher’s criteria that accompanies the standards: in kindergarten-grade 2, the most notable shifts in the standards when compared to state standards include a focus on reading informational text and building a coherent knowledge within and across grades; a more in-depth approach to vocabulary development; and a requirement that students encounter sufficiently complex text through reading, writing, listening, and speaking.
if this gap remains unaddressed in school, then demographics becomes, if not destiny, then a self-fulfilling prophecy.
while core knowledge is heavy in history and geography, delaware standards demand more economics and civics.
growing up in newark, i was much like the average kid today — shooting hoops in the driveway, attempting to duplicate evel knievel stunts on my bike, spending too many hours watching what mymom used to call “the idiot box.”
the role of a democratic “common school” is to make sure that “intellectual capital” is not only for the privileged.
my students will succeed, they will be ‘cultured’ and gosh darnit, they’ll prove some people wrong.
children have limited knowledge in science, geography, history  and technology, so we shouldn’tmuddy their minds with such marginalia ?  the story is ripe with opportunities to build background knowledge, not  about (strawman alert!)
but the black teachers say, ” i’ve heard  your song loud and clear.
i’m curious what “research evidence” means, but i gather that it doesn’t include the research evidence that cognitive scientist dan willingham cites in support of the idea that students aren’t little scientists and need a foundation of years of core knowledge before being ready to function as actual scientists.
regular commenter stuart buck, as he is wont to do, looks to turn the discussion into a referendum on what he perceives to be the anti-reform stance of diane ravitch and others.
the long view should win out simply because there is no short view.
the freedom granted charter schools allowed newark charter school to adopt core knowledge as the content portion of its curriculum.
einstein* defined “insanity” as “doing the same thing over and over but expecting different results.”
he is a yale university teacher preparation program graduate — rp.
yes prep  sw, in houston, and is reprinted with his permission.
we’ve spent the last twenty years attempting to make what, on the surface, appears to be a diverse, creative, and wide-ranging series of reforms to public education.
it is simply inconceivable that a non-driver would connect  the act of balancing on two feet with the act of idling by the curb in a  car.
after all, if kids can actually do better on the tests with none of the latter misbehavior, then testing isn’t the horror it’s made out to be.”
e.d. hirsch first aired these concerns in a big way 1988 with his  bestselling book,cultural literacy: what every american needs to know.
although illustrations in many nonfiction books help considerably, there is a limit to how many unfamiliar things can be adequately illustrated in a book for young children.”
as an educator who is training students to enter a culture of power that is not theirs, i have to make it explicit and i have to teach the cultural literacy behind the institutions of power they’ll have to navigate.
furthermore, delpit goes on to describe the reality of the culture of power that myself and my students have to deal with with and what many minority parents see as the role of schooling and education: there are codes or rules for participating in power; that tis, there is a “culture of power.”
yatvin’s bill of particulars boils down to a complaint that all that  subject matter content is too hard, too soon and too boring for children.
and we’ve paid dearly in tax dollars and in other ways for each of these “reforms.”
the high stakes associated with reading tests may not preclude teaching a knowledge-rich curriculum, but it arguably disincentivizes it.
a child’s ability to take in  information through reading typically doesn’t catch up to his or her  ability to do so by listening until the 8th grade.
“the mainspring of comprehension is prior  knowledge—the stuff readers already know that enables them to create  understanding as they read.”
then let’s use the best technology available and make the kind of investments we need in professional development to teach that content effectively.
the long view should win out simply because there is no short  view.
the other 10 used a variety of methods, but most fell under the definition of “balanced literacy,” an approach that was spread citywide by former schools chancellorjoel i. klein, beginning in 2003.
so let’s draw on such successes and, sure, conduct more research, do  more experiments, and spend more money.
“we tend to teach  comprehension as a series of ‘reading strategies’ that can be  practiced and mastered.
the difficulty  arises that i have to convince them, amidst all of this, that their cultural  experiences are legitimate.
schools should ensure all children—and especially disadvantaged children—build coherent background knowledge that is essential to mature reading comprehension.
we’ve experimented with a seemingly endless array of  “strategies” for teaching reading and math and have tried to  “differentiate” for every imaginable “type” of student.
the “no standing” example illustrates perfectly how easily a lack of shared references and experiences conspire to thwart comprehension.
pop quiz:  how many of the last ten books you read to  your class were nonfiction?
our students should be ready to academically handle the rigors of collegiate life, particularly since a large minority of our students will be attending selective or highly-selective universities.
but start building background knowledge of the world beyond a child’s immediate surroundings today, and you geometrically expand the number of stories a child can read for pleasure tomorrow.
for decades, american public schooling has veered toward so-called “reforms” in curriculum and instruction.
the most important resource in any school is the classroom teacher.
this is critical for children from low-income homes and especially those  where english is a second language.
plus, nonfiction often has rich,  domain-specific vocabulary.
i challenge anyone to think of a nation that works as hard as we do to find silver linings in its educational failures.
she’s completely correct on all of these points, but further explication is worthwhile.
i did it in four classes, with a bit of homework.
‘i’ve been inside a bus,’ tyler said.
in a bit of practical philosophy, you need the  master’s tools to dismantle the gate.
but when good instruction is coupled with a curriculum rich with substance, clarity and cohesiveness, young students will have doors opened to places they never dreamt of.
we have spent a great deal and worked very hard but gotten unimpressive results.
the “haves” in this country had “core knowledge” in their homes too.
if each local school system imparts the traditional reference points  of literate culture, then everybody is able to communicate with strangers.
“there is so much pressure systematically to do well on the tests, and this may not boost scores right away,” daniel feigelson said.
now, i want to teach you to harmonize with the rest of the world.”
in promoting their ideas as “transformative,” the authors  are overlooking the fact that the kinds of constructivist  practices they desire are already standard in many schools  (particularly those held up as models for others).
they could decode, but not comprehend.
analysts have spent the last few days slicing and dicing this data and making unconvincing arguments that some positive trends can be detected.
thus readalouds build language proficiency by  exposing kids to sophisticated language well above their independent   reading level.
what students need to know has become relative or, worse, irrelevant.
that is a good definition of literacy: the ability to communicate effectively with strangers.
hirsch realized that there was something missing from what nearly every other “expert” on education was writing about — namely, common sense.
we only  make social and economic progress by teaching everybody to read and  communicate, which means teaching myths and facts that are predominantly  traditional.
this is roughly akin to a newsletter for doctors headlined, “are  there benefits to quitting smoking and exercise?”
it was the lack of attention to this concern that created such a negative  outcry in the black community when well-intentioned white liberal educators  introduced “dialect readers.”
children have limited knowledge in science, geography, history and technology, so we shouldn’tmuddy their minds with such marginalia ?
every reading teacher has encouraged a struggling reader to “activate your prior knowledge” when reading a difficult passage; or to “use your context clues” when stumped by an unfamiliar word.
this week, the core knowledge foundation, where i work, announced the  results of an intriguing pilot program that sees reading for the complicated,  cumulative process it is.
i could compare a spring afternoon to an impressionist painting; describe a  sit-in on a college campus as an act of “civil disobedience;” and  pick out the grandfather character in the composition “peter and the  wolf” by the sound of the bassoon.
well, my bet is that einstein would have deemed naep data absolute proof of america’s educational insanity.
but let’s do it to build a shared understanding what our students need to learn —the content they need to learn.
i cannot, in good conscience, pretend that their cultural experiences will be valued for all that they are worth and that they won’t be judged for not having those markers of cultural knowledge.
for several years, i taught 5th grade in the lowest performing elementary school in new york city’s lowest performing school district.
decoding is a skill that can–and must–be taught in the early grades.
this is roughly akin to a newsletter for doctors headlined, “are there benefits to quitting smoking and exercise?”
the quiz covered material they would have covered in their college classes in 3-4 weeks of class.
the scope and sequence of core knowledge was developed by university professor e. d. hirsch, jr. and the core knowledge foundation after years of consensus-building among teachers, scholars, scientists, and others.
listening  to a fluent reader gives students a reading role model for their own oral  reading skills, too.
readalouds not only grow vocabulary, they are the best way to build critical background knowledge, which is essential for later reading comprehension.
when students listen to a readaloud, cognitive bandwidth that might ordinarily be devoted to decoding is redirected toward the vocabulary and content of the reading.
in a democratic society, it is publiceducation that should be the equalizing  force.
i need to make  them not feel ashamed of their culture as i did many times as an undergraduate:  how many times did i instinctively lower the volume on my tejano music?
we’ve tried to bring market pressures to bear  through charters and choice.
they “read it” but they didn’t “get  it.”
on tuesday morning naep reported  that, in the course of two years, our nation’s 4th and 8th graders  improved a single point (on a 500-point scale) in three of four reading and  math assessments, and flatlined on the fourth.
but this oral comprehension advantage can also be used to build background knowledge in a systematic, coherent way over many years.
“at this time in their development, would it not be more  sensible for children to learn words connected to their everyday lives and  their interests rather than to things and experiences as yet unknown?”
katharine beals, phd is the author of raising a left-brain child  in a right-brain world: strategies for helping bright, quirky, socially awkward  children to thrive at home and at school.
language growth is a  slow growing plant,e.d. hirsch points out.
four out of five of my students scored below grade level—often far below grade level—on their state tests.
if you were a lucky kid you were exposed to the events, literature, ideas  and arts that changed our world.
i’m alarmed and aghast that anyone can fail to connect building background knowledge with language growth, or long-term success in reading comprehension.
in many ways it’s unfair.
these were seen as a plot to prevent schools from teaching the linguistic aspects of the culturel of power, thus dooming black children to a permanent outsider caste.
decoding is a skill that can–and must–be taught in  the early grades.
when dao krings, a second-grade teacher, asked her students recently how many had never been inside a car, several, including tyler rodriguez, raised their hands.
a web page on the core knowledge website links to the the nyc department of ed’s data,background on the program, a presentation on the research underpinnings andhow the curriculum works with common core state standards.
this means that a strong case can be made for read  alouds to building knowledge, vocabulary, and fluency through and including  middle school.
if you are not already a participant in the culture of power, being told explicitly the rules of that culture makes acquiring power easier.
i’m all for reading for the pleasure of the story.
even a simple word like “shot” means something different on a basketball court, a doctor’s office, or when the repairman says your dishwasher is “shot.”
in light of the poor results other approaches have yielded, is there any other sane course?
i’m a first year teacher in world history, working predominantly with  students from low-income communities and ethnic minorities.
constructivizing stem february 22nd, 2012 tags: constructivism, engineering, facts, hands-on learning, math, science posted in core knowledge, curriculum, education news, education practice,  research and reports, students, teaching | 2 comments » the following guest post is by katharine beals, who blogs about  education atout in left field, where this post also appears.
follow me on twitter: @rpondiscio promising results from nyc core knowledge pilot by robert pondiscio tags: balanced literacy, core knowledge language arts program, new york city posted in core knowledge, curriculum, education news | 5 comments » there will be lots more to say about this shortly, but the new york times  this morning has word of promising results from a three-year study of the  experimental core knowledge language arts (ckla) program, which has been  piloted for the last several years in 10 new york city schools.
college readiness and cultural literacy by robert pondiscio october 24th, 2011 posted in core knowledge, education practice, education theory, teaching |  28 comments » a version of this post originally appeared at socially produced, a blog  written by fernando reyes, a 10th grade world history instructor at
my students did well.
our students should be ready to  academically handle the rigors of collegiate life, particularly since a large  minority of our students will be attending selective or highly-selective  universities.
building knowledge and vocabulary remain the royal road to reading  comprehension.
this oral  language advantage persists for years.
furthermore, the point is to arm them for a future where they can create a fundamentally more fair world.
her smoking gun is within the publisher’s criteria that accompanies the standards: in kindergarten-grade 2, the most notable shifts in the standards when  compared to state standards include a focus on reading informational text and  building a coherent knowledge within and across grades; a more in-depth  approach to vocabulary development; and a requirement that students encounter  sufficiently complex text through reading, writing, listening, and  speaking.
it puts forward the message  that knowledge-building practices found under the stem umbrella are practices  frequently held in common by stem professionals across the disciplines as they  investigate, model, communicate, and explain the natural and designed world.
separating decoding and comprehension is critical to any discussion of reading.
in fact, i never had a single student who couldn’t “read.”
i’d be  mighty surprised to learn there are still teachers who need to be sold on the  benefits of reading aloud to students.
that’s hard to reconcile with high stakes reading tests that demand results now.
the problem is, if we only teach children about their neighborhoods they are forever limited by the boundaries of those neighborhoods.
these are not dumb students.
only one had seen the godfather.
the difficulty arises that i have to convince them, amidst all of this, that their cultural experiences are legitimate.
listening to a fluent reader gives students a reading role model for their own oral reading skills, too.
knowledge of baseball, the godfather and star wars may seem trivial, but they are symptoms of a much larger conundrum: the inability to gather the tokens of a privileged culture they will have to enter in college and in larger american life.
that’s a lost  opportunity.
i’ve grown up in communities where the contextual clues of power are completely lacking, but i learned first-hand what power differentials do.
interestingly, all of these reforms have one thing in common (aside from  their failure to improve student performance except in isolated instances):  none deals directly with the content of what we teach our students.
we help people in the underclass rise economically by teaching them  how to communicate effectively beyond a narrow social sphere, and that can only  be accomplished by teaching them shared, traditional literacy culture.
if you’re not building background knowledge, you’re not  teaching reading.
i’ve grown up in communities where the contextual clues of  power are completely lacking, but i learned first-hand what power differentials  do.
read alouds also have value well past the primary grades.
what’s less well known is a fact my colleaguealice wiggins likes to point out: reading comprehension typically doesn’t catch up until about 8th grade.
she just seems reluctant to teach it: “reading any text requires more than decoding, fluency, and inferring meaning from context; the reader must form mental images of things mentioned based on previous experience or imagination.
it is one thing for a child to readthe little engine that could for the pleasure of the story and quite another for her to comprehend the  inner workings of a locomotive.”
weirdly, yatvin gets this.
they  discovered that a sign that says ‘no standing any time’ is not  intended for kids like them on the sidewalk.
that  is a good definition of literacy: the ability to communicate effectively with  strangers.
our language is deeply idiomatic and context driven.
besides “practices” and ”ideas,” the authors mention “strategies” and “tools” (again, without specific examples).
it’s a challenge, but one i feel i’m surprisingly well-equipped to handle.
the new york city pilot study is an  encouraging first step.
what i mean by “content” is the actual knowledge that is imbedded in quality curricula.
a first-year teacher, mr. reyes works predominantly with students from low-income communities and ethnic minorities.
i moved to a university environment where i both had to negotiate the rules  of power, but just as important, work to change them and make them more  accepting.
‘i’ve been inside a bus,’  tyler said.
the inevitable result is quick fixes that overpromise and underdeliver.
the primary takeaway from the research, tailored for our 140-character age, was “new study finds nonfiction curriculum enhances reading comprehension skills.”
our goal here at sw is to prepare our students not just to be college-eligible,  but to be college-ready.
it’s  fairly obvious that oral language competence precedes written language  proficiency (we learn to speak and listen long before we can read and  write).
if they want to promote  something truly transformative for stem, they should instead be  advocating a reinstatement of the years of solid, content-based  instruction in math and science that many of our k12 schools used to offer (and  that one still finds in schools in most developed countries around the world).
she blogs about education atkitchen table math and on her own blog, out in left field.
when i say high-performing, i mean it: our test scores are among the highest in the state, we send 100% of our students to four-year colleges, and the selectivity of the colleges our students is only increasing.
matthew effect, anyone?
yes prep sw is a high-performing charter school.
“to do this you’d have to  be willing to take the long view.”
i forced myself to read the ‘classics’ of  western civilization before attending school, but i constantly felt that the  philosophers and ideas that were being dropped on a regular basis completely  baffled me.
tags: language proficiency, readalouds, vocabulary posted in core knowledge, education practice, teaching | 10 comments » part of my required reading is the daily accomplished teacher smartbrief, a summary of education news.
she teaches at the university of  pennsylvania graduate school of education and at the drexel university school  of education, specializing in the education of children on the autistic  spectrum.
the ckla students showed significantly higher reading  achievement from kindergarten to 2nd grade than the control group in nearly all  measures.
precisely because of the three ideas enumerated above.
what does it mean to prepare a student for college?
i’m curious what “research evidence” means, but i gather  that it doesn’t include the research evidence that cognitive  scientist dan willingham cites in support of the idea that students aren’t  little scientists and need a foundation of years of core knowledge before  being ready to function as actual scientists.
a web page on the core knowledge website links to the the nyc department of  ed’s data,background on the program, a presentation on the research  underpinnings andhow the curriculum works with common core state standards.
research evidence consistently supports  this assertion.
my students will succeed, they will be ‘cultured’ and gosh  darnit, they’ll prove some people wrong.
why?  precisely because of the three  ideas enumerated above.
jenlee zhong calculated that if ms. krings put 50 cents in the muni-meter and  could park for 10 minutes, for 40 minutes she would have to put in $2.
finally, another important issue to keep in mind is time.
“ultimately, the authors show their contempt for teachers’ competence, the use of supplementary materials, and children’s experiences,” yatvin claims.
“it’s the stakes attached to the testing that inevitably lead educators to teach to the test, narrow the curriculum, and cheat.”
i can confidently say that i have great students and that they work hard.
if you were not so lucky, you might be like  the person at a party who doesn’t “get” the joke the host  just told.
“in early february the second graders went around the block to study  muni-meters and parking signs.
she just  seems reluctant to teach it: “reading any text requires more than decoding, fluency, and inferring  meaning from context; the reader must form mental images of things mentioned  based on previous experience or imagination.
it’s hard not to detect a certain worry among those who write stem  articles for education week that the drive to educate students for careers  in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics might include a drive to  increase core scientific and mathematical content at the expense of things that  constructivists hold dear.
but the black teachers say, ” i’ve heard your song loud and clear.
they learned new vocabulary words, like  ‘parking,’ ‘violations’ and ‘bureau.’
but the education establishment cautioned that a curriculum that  exposed fifth graders to atoms, molecules and compounds and sixth graders to  plate tectonics was developmentally inappropriate (translation: “hard and  boring”).
tags: core knowledge, cultural literacy, curriculum, e. d. hirsch
content-rich, nonfiction readalouds, often in narrative form,  are a central feature of the ckla program and a powerful way to build a  child’s store of vocabulary and knowledge–critical components of  mature reading comprehension.
still the piece ends on a bittersweet note.
it is incredibly condescending even to suggest that if a child cannot personally relate to a story or topic, they can’t possibly be interested or successful.
we’ve attempted to set high standards and  given high-stakes tests.
their love of tejano music or their knowledge of the urban, ethnically diverse and youthful language that pervades their culture is important and it is a travesty of reality that their experiences are not considered part of the mainstream language of cultural literacy.
i challenge anyone to think of a nation that works as hard as we do to find  silver linings in its educational failures.
to quickly summarize before continuing: power exists.
where – where exactly – do we expect that prior knowledge and context to come from if building it is not a primary function of language arts instruction?
gratifying stuff, but let’s not get ahead of ourselves.
you can’t simply slam into it  repeatedly.
you probably answered either “zero” or “one.”
however, the gaps in certain cultural knowledge is extreme.
we’ve spent the last twenty years attempting to make what, on the  surface, appears to be a diverse, creative, and wide-ranging series of reforms  to public education.
freed from the cognitive work of decoding, children can more readily understand a story with sophisticated vocabulary when it’s read out loud than if they had read it on their own.
and this is in reading and math where, to  the detriment of so many other core subjects, we’ve aimed nearly all of  our firepower.
our goal here at sw is to prepare our students not just to be college-eligible, but to be college-ready.
that’s a lost opportunity.
however, the gaps in certain  cultural knowledge is extreme.
it’s a challenge, but one i feel i’m surprisingly well-equipped  to handle.
having  access to important “core knowledge” isn’t school reform.
“the inner workings of a locomotive,” but  colors, mountains, trains and transportation, to name but a few.
“this is a pretty strong dose of academia for children just beginning  their schooling, with not even a ‘spoonful of sugar to make the medicine  go down,” she writes, forgetting that the teachers are free to dispense  as many spoonfuls of c6h12o6  as they see fit to enable the prescription  to enter the digestive tract.
tags: background knowledge, core knowledge, language proficiency, reading comprehension posted in core knowledge, curriculum, education practice, literacy, teaching | 11 comments » the new york times offers up a piece about a new york city school that has put building background knowledge at the heart of its curriculum.
besides “practices” and ”ideas,” the authors  mention “strategies” and “tools” (again, without  specific examples).
this is something that ccss nails, emphatically and correctly.
newark charter school was named a 2010 national blue ribbon school — rp.
later buck offers that it is not possible to hold these two ideas in one’s head at the same time: 1.
but when good instruction is coupled with a curriculum rich with substance,  clarity and cohesiveness, young students will have doors opened to places they  never dreamt of.
it was the lack of attention to this concern that created such a negative outcry in the black community when well-intentioned white liberal educators introduced “dialect readers.”
if you were not so lucky, you might be like the person at a party who doesn’t “get” the joke the host just told.
we’ve experimented with shrinking school and class sizes.
newark charter  school was named a 2010 national blue ribbon school — rp.
yes, it is hard work.
by underscoring what matters most in the standards, the  criteria illustrate what shifts must take place in the next generation of  curricula, including paring away elements that distract from or are at odds  with the common core state standards.
having access to important “core knowledge” isn’t school reform.
at our campus, we talk openly about college-readiness as our standard.
most of them are hard working, quick-witted and sharp.
we  expect two to three years language growth per year to catch disadvantaged  children up.
well, my bet is that  einstein would have deemed naep data absolute proof of america’s  educational insanity.
teachers generally understand this, which is why class readalouds are a staple of elementary school classrooms.
follow me on twitter: @rpondiscio tags: balanced literacy, core knowledge language arts program, new york city posted in core knowledge, curriculum, education news | 5 comments » there will be lots more to say about this shortly, but the new york times this morning has word of promising results from a three-year study of the experimental core knowledge language arts (ckla) program, which has been piloted for the last several years in 10 new york city schools.
it is incredibly  condescending even to suggest that if a child cannot personally relate to a  story or topic, they can’t possibly be interested or successful.
yet yatvin also doesn’t much care for the “significant increase  in nonfiction materials at all grade levels” and ccss’s call for  “a mix of 50 percent literary and 50 percent informational text,  including reading in [english/language arts], science, social studies, and the  arts.”
if you look at figures plotting naep scores over the last 30 years, any upward slope in the data is nearly undetectable to the naked eye.
they “read it” but they didn’t “get it.”
but i’d wager most teachers leave untapped a lot of the potential of  readalouds.
they discovered that a sign that says ‘no standing any time’ is not intended for kids like them on the sidewalk.
the story is ripe with opportunities to build background knowledge, not about (strawman alert!)
it’s gratifying to see this point rendered as if  it’s widely known in our schools.
there are a few widely used curricula (e.g. international baccalaureate, latin schools curricula, core knowledge) that effectively incorporate much of this knowledge base.
the only one that’s not fiction and poetry is a memoir byhatchet author gary paulsen.
they usually come to school on day one with smaller vocabularies and less background knowledge of the world than more advantaged kids, who tend to hear more rich and complex language at home and enjoy more opportunities for language and knowledge enrichment.
where – where exactly – do we expect that prior  knowledge and context to come from if building it is not a primary function of  language arts instruction?
when students listen to a readaloud, cognitive bandwidth  that might ordinarily be devoted to decoding is redirected toward the  vocabulary and content of the reading.
even a  simple word like “shot” means something different on a basketball  court, a doctor’s office, or when the repairman says your dishwasher is  “shot.”
then let’s use the best technology available and make the kind of  investments we need in professional development to teach that content  effectively.
ase.d. hirsch has said.
children in ten new york city schools learned to read with thecore knowledge language arts (ckla) program, a comprehensive literacy curriculum emphasizing phonics, coherent content knowledge, and oral and written language development across a wide range of subjects.
these were seen as a plot to prevent  schools from teaching the linguistic aspects of the culturel of power, thus  dooming black children to a permanent outsider caste.
“for young children, the focus on academic vocabulary seems strange,” continues yatvin, apparently believing teachers are expected to read directly from the common core standards during story time on the rug.
it is simply inconceivable that a non-driver would connect the act of balancing on two feet with the act of idling by the curb in a car.
these feel-good initiatives typically offer vague theories of learning at the expense of coherent content.
freed from the cognitive work of decoding,  children can more readily understand a story with sophisticated vocabulary when  it’s read out loud than if they had read it on their own.
some of my friends view the standards as an abuse of power or coercive.
it got to the point where the late-show comics were having a field day interviewing adults on the street who couldn’t locate china on a map.
broad and rich curricula like core knowledge would actually allow educators to improve test scores above and beyond a narrow test-prep curriculum.
“for young children, the focus on academic vocabulary seems  strange,” continues yatvin, apparently believing teachers are expected to  read directly from the common core standards during story time on the  rug.
e.d. hirsch first aired these concerns in a big way 1988 with his bestselling book,cultural literacy: what every american needs to know.
maybe we need to give content a chance.
if  you’re not building background knowledge,you’re not teaching reading .
what’s less well known is a fact my colleaguealice wiggins  likes to point out: reading comprehension typically doesn’t catch up  until about 8th grade.
if you’re not building background knowledge, you’re not teaching reading.
tags: common core, core knowledge, lynne munson, naep posted in assessment and testing, core knowledge, curriculum | 12 comments » the following post by lynne munson appeared originally on the blog of common core, a washington, dc-based organization that works to promote a liberal arts, core curriculum in u.s. schools.
but there are far  more problems with a view of literacy and teaching that boils down to  “meet the children where they are…and keep them there.”
if you were a lucky kid you were exposed to the events, literature, ideas and arts that changed our world.
although illustrations in many  nonfiction books help considerably, there is a limit to how many unfamiliar  things can be adequately illustrated in a book for young children.”
readalouds are more than just an opportunity for a class to enjoy a great story  together.
in the words of columnist william raspberry writing about the need for core knowledge schools in african-american communities, “the more you know, the smarter you get.”
in the updated edition, hirsch discusses his central thesis: a shared cultural literacy “enables grandparents to communicate with  grandchildren, southerners with midwesterners, whites with blacks, asians with  latinos, and republicans with democrats – no matter where they were  educated.
jenlee zhong calculated that if ms. krings put 50 cents in the muni-meter and could park for 10 minutes, for 40 minutes she would have to put in $2.
p.s. 142, a school in lower manhattan hard by the williamsburg bridge “has made real life experiences the center of academic lessons,” the paper notes, “in hopes of improving reading and math skills by broadening children’s frames of reference.”
decoding is a prerequisite skill but it’s not reading.
tellingly, miller suggests ten books for upper elementary students to hear out loud.
rather, it found that schools became so enamored with “social studies” that they forgot to teach world and american history and geography.
the freedom granted charter schools allowed newark charter school to adopt  core knowledge as the content portion of its curriculum.
decoding is a prerequisite skill but it’s not  reading.
teaching johnny about his neighborhood is just as useful as teaching him about the renaissance.
a local superintendent says he wished more principals would adopt the program but that they’re fearful.
munson is common core’sexecutive director and a former deputy chairman of the national endowment for the humanities — rp.
i need to make them not feel ashamed of their culture as i did many times as an undergraduate: how many times did i instinctively lower the volume on my tejano music?
teachers are conditioned to plan lessons around what they believe students might be interested in.
a first-year  teacher, mr. reyes works predominantly with students from low-income  communities and ethnic minorities.
teaching johnny about his neighborhood is just as useful as  teaching him about the renaissance.
their love of tejano music or their knowledge of  the urban, ethnically diverse and youthful language that pervades their culture  is important and it is a travesty of reality that their experiences are not
enter your email address: delivered by feedburner tags: core knowledge language arts, literacy, oral language, reading, vocabulary posted in core knowledge, curriculum, education practice, teaching | 21 comments » note: this piece also appears on the washington post’s education blog,the answer sheet.
if there’s a secret  sauce in the curriculum, it probably has as much to do with its emphasis on  building background knowledge orally.
i’m a first year teacher in world history, working predominantly with students from low-income communities and ethnic minorities.
every reading teacher has encouraged a struggling reader to  “activate your prior knowledge” when reading a difficult passage;  or to “use your context clues” when stumped by an unfamiliar  word.
a couple of quick anecdotes will suffice: only 6 of my 125 students have  seen any star wars movie.
there is no reason to expect an instant dividend from a knowledge-rich curriculum.
but if they were lucky they attended a school that stressed the importance of, well, important things.
that’s not the totality of my challenge, however.
ckla  has two distinct instructional components: a “skills” strand that  teaches decoding; and a “listening and learning” strand that builds  background knowledge and vocabulary, primarily through readalouds.
einstein* defined “insanity” as “doing the same thing  over and over but expecting different results.”
but let’s do it to build a shared  understanding what our students need to learn —the content they need to  learn.
separating decoding and comprehension is critical to any discussion of  reading.
by placing subject matter content at the very heart of english language arts instruction from the first days of school, the authors of the common core standards got it absolutely right.
reading to students across subject areas–not just stories and poems–just might be the most underutilized strategy in the teacher’s tool kit.
and performance data  strongly suggests that these curricula work for all students.
yesterday’s email carried the subject  line, “are there benefits to reading aloud?”
“experiences that are routine in middle-class homes are not for p.s. 142 children.
it wasn’t that the core knowledge foundation didn’t believe that economics and civics were important.
what they don’t mention is underlyingcontent , except to say: lest some believe this is setting up another false dichotomy in science or  mathematics education between content and process, let us quickly add a strong  evidentiary note: epistemic practices and the learning and knowledge produced  through such practices as building models, arguing from evidence, and  communicating findings increase the likelihood that students will learn the  ideas of science or engineering and mathematics at a deeper, more enduring  level than otherwise would be the case.
they want to ensure that the school provides their children  with discourse patterns, interreactional styles and spoken and written language  codes that will allow them success in the larger society.
“reading with comprehension assumes a shared prior knowledge,”  the times notes.
here’s my suggestion: although i love the phrase, ps 142 should immediately stop calling these activities “field trips to the sidewalk.”
in promoting their ideas as “transformative,” the authors are overlooking the fact that the kinds of constructivist practices they desire are already standard in many schools (particularly those held up as models for others).
those who wish to  function in the world of the “haves” need to know what they know.
that’s part of the story.
this op-ed by gregory r. meece, school director of newark charter school, a core knowledgevisitation school, originally appeared in thenews journal in wilmington, delaware.
the ckla students showed significantly higher reading achievement from kindergarten to 2nd grade than the control group in nearly all measures.
not for nothing are the standards titled “common  core state standards for english language arts & literacy in history/social  studies, science, and technical subjects, k-5.”
students in  ten demographically similar control schools received more traditional reading  instruction—the kind of balanced literacy, content-agnostic,  comprehension skills-and-strategies approach i was trained to use with my south  bronx 5th graders.
naep: proof of education insanity by robert pondiscio tags: common core, core knowledge, lynne munson, naep posted in  assessment and testing, core knowledge, curriculum | 12 comments » the following post by lynne munson appeared originally on the blog of  common core, a washington, dc-based organization that works to promote a  liberal arts, core curriculum in u.s. schools.
“teaching cultural literacy is a matter of social justice” by robert pondiscio tags: core knowledge, cultural literacy, curriculum, e. d. hirsch
“the fact that fiction now dominates the elementary curriculum is not the result of educators’ decisions about what is best for children, but a reflection of children’s developmental stages, their interests, and their limited experience in the fields of science, geography, history, and technology.
if they want to promote something truly transformative for stem, they should instead be advocating a reinstatement of the years of solid, content-based instruction in math and science that many of our k12 schools used to offer (and that one still finds in schools in most developed countries around the world).
not for nothing are the standards titled “common core state standards for english language arts & literacy in history/social studies, science, and technical subjects, k-5.”
growing up in newark, i was much like the average kid today —  shooting hoops in the driveway, attempting to duplicate evel knievel stunts on  my bike, spending too many hours watching what mymom used to call “the  idiot box.”
things, for example, like “model building,” “data analysis,” and “communicating findings.”
tags: core knowledge language arts program, joanne jacobs, reading, reading tests, sol stern, stuart buck posted in assessment and testing, core knowledge, accountability | 45 comments » over at joanne jacobs, they’re talking about sol stern’s recent article on the new york city core knowledge language arts program.
if each local school system imparts the traditional reference points of literate culture, then everybody is able to communicate with strangers.
when i say  high-performing, i mean it: our test scores are among the highest in the state,  we send 100% of our students to four-year colleges, and the selectivity of the  colleges our students is only increasing.
today’s miracle becomes tomorrow’s scandal with depressing regularity.
meet the children where they are…and keep them there by robert  pondiscio tags: common core state standards, education week, english language arts,  vocabulary posted in core knowledge, curriculum, education practice,  educational policy, literacy, teaching | 42 comments »
it’s fairly obvious that oral language competence precedes written language proficiency (we learn to speak and listen long before we can read and write).
it would not be more sensible.
this means that a strong case can be made for read alouds to building knowledge, vocabulary, and fluency through and including middle school.
as one parent demanded,  “my kids know how to be black – you all teach them how to be  successful int he white man’s world.”
“we tend to teach comprehension as a series of ‘reading strategies’ that can be practiced and mastered.
there is no shortcut to  building the vocabulary and background knowledge that drives comprehension.
we’ve focused on “21st century skills” and used  the latest technologies.
the former include “scale, proportion, and “quantity or the use of patterns;” the authors don’t cite any examples of the latter.
core knowledge is a coherent list of what every american student through 8th grade should know.
i moved to a university environment where i both had to negotiate the rules of power, but just as important, work to change them and make them more accepting.
with care and patience, we can keep them there.
but i’d wager most teachers leave untapped a lot of the potential of readalouds.
what students need to know has become relative or, worse,  irrelevant.
teachers are conditioned to plan lessons around what they believe students  might be interested in.
they are worth and that they won’t be judged for not having those markers  of cultural knowledge.
considered part of the mainstream language of cultural literacy.
the inevitable result is quick fixes that overpromise and  underdeliver.
“there is so much  pressure systematically to do well on the tests, and this may not boost scores  right away,” daniel feigelson said.
unfortunately it really doesn’t work that way,” university of virginia cognitive scientist dan willingham has written on this blog.
success in reading comprehension depends less on “personal response” and more on close reading of text.
hirsch calls it “intellectual velcro.”
we have spent a great deal and worked very  hard but gotten unimpressive results.
others bemoan the lack of specificity.
but read alouds should be for more than just stories and poems.
the times describes the school’s “field trips to the sidewalk,” with children routinely visiting parking garages and auto body shops, or examining features of every day life.
i recently showed a quiz on islam i was giving my students to a couple of  friends of mine who have attended college and taken classes on islam.
we  learn new words by understanding the context in which we hear unfamiliar  words.
i’d be mighty surprised to learn there are still teachers who need to be sold on the benefits of reading aloud to students.
but start  building background knowledge of the world beyond a child’s immediate  surroundings today, and you geometrically expand the number of stories a child  can read for pleasure tomorrow.
tellingly,  miller suggests ten books for upper elementary students to hear out loud.
reading to students across subject areas–not just  stories and poems–just might be the most underutilized strategy in the  teacher’s tool kit.
i could compare a spring afternoon to an impressionist painting; describe a sit-in on a college campus as an act of “civil disobedience;” and pick out the grandfather character in the composition “peter and the wolf” by the sound of the bassoon.
when dao krings, a second-grade teacher, asked her students  recently how many had never been inside a car, several, including tyler  rodriguez, raised their hands.
and for too many kids, their neighborhoods aren’t great.
this is not a core knowledge school, but the teachers and staff clearly understand the critical connection between background knowledge, vocabulary and language proficiency.
miller’s piece touts “world read aloud day” on march 7,  2012 and suggests every day should be read aloud day.
we help people in the underclass rise economically by teaching them how to communicate effectively beyond a narrow social sphere, and that can only be accomplished by teaching them shared, traditional literacy culture.
those who evade this inherent conservatism of literacy in the name of  multicultural antielitism are in in effect elitists of an extreme sort.
i forced myself to read the ‘classics’ of western civilization before attending school, but i constantly felt that the philosophers and ideas that were being dropped on a regular basis completely baffled me.
it should give every child a fair chance to achieve success.
here’s my suggestion:  although i love the phrase, ps 142 should  immediately stop calling these activities “field trips to the  sidewalk.”
you probably answered either  “zero” or “one.”
if we wait until a child can  read independently to build background knowledge and vocabulary, we are almost  certainly cementing their knowledge and language deficits permanently in place.
the standards “overestimate the intellectual, physiological, and emotional development of young children,” she writes.
they were exposed to that which binds our culture together, a common understanding — cultural literacy.
success in reading comprehension depends less on “personal  response” and more on close reading of text.
by placing subject matter content at the very heart of english language  arts instruction from the first days of school, the authors of the common core  standards got it absolutely right.
the times describes the school’s “field  trips to the sidewalk,” with children routinely visiting parking garages  and auto body shops, or examining features of every day life.
this is not a core knowledge school, but the teachers and staff clearly  understand the critical connection between background knowledge, vocabulary and  language proficiency.
a content-rich curriculum isn’t the only reason for a school’s success.
children in ten new york city schools learned  to read with thecore knowledge language arts (ckla) program, a comprehensive  literacy curriculum emphasizing phonics, coherent content knowledge, and oral  and written language development across a wide range of subjects.
but if they were lucky they attended a school that stressed the importance of,  well, important things.
miller’s piece touts “world read aloud day” on march 7, 2012 and suggests every day should be read aloud day.
“experiences that are routine in middle-class homes are not for p.s.  142 children.