we enjoy our family vacations to disney very much, watching the magic through our children’s eyes, but we’ve also learned that adult time in disney can be just as magical for us – sometimes even more so!
we thought by then the kids would have had enough of the neverland club, but when we picked them up they pleaded with us to drop them off there again the next day.
another time, we left the kids at the neverland club at the polynesian and  enjoyed four hours of adult time at epcot’s food and wine festival.
but we’d do it again in a heartbeat!
you don’t always need the kids to have a great time in disney.
this allowed us to skip to the head of the line for popular rides liketest track  and rockin’ roller coaster and ride them several times in one day.
at first, i felt guilty leaving the kids behind while we went to disney, but we’d do it again in a heartbeat!
i would love to help you plan an amazing disney vacation for you and your family too!
pin collecting tricks  (chipandco.com)
you don’t always need the kids to  have a great time in disney.
this allowed us to skip to the head of the line for popular rides liketest track and rockin’ roller coaster and ride them several times in one day.
steakhouse, evenings at the food and wine festival, or just a few hours  strolling through the world showcase without having to worry about pushing  strollers or standing in lines for characters.
this past november, my husband tim and i headed down to disney world for our first-ever adults only getaway.
we loved staying at the boardwalk and staying out late with our friends  – just sitting, talking, and enjoying the atmosphere with an adult  beverage.
we booked 3 nights/4 days at the boardwalk,  met another couple down there, and had an incredible time!
check out the latest deals and offers from: enter your email address to subscribe to our daily disney newsletter: powered by pixie dust and feedburner about pixielesley lesley sawhook has written 7 post on chip and co.. i am a lover of all things disney which resulted in my becoming a disney  travel specialist.
we first used one of the centers when we wanted to enjoy a romantic dinner  alone.
what a perfect disney date!
the parks offer plenty for adults who’d prefer to party or just plain relax.
they  had just put up the christmas decorations, and it was the perfect time to visit.
or better yet,  let’s not !
we loved walking over to epcot for thefood and wine festival, then strolling over to hollywood studios for theosborne lights.
check out this special offer: dooney and bourke exclusively for disney parks now available at disneystore.com!
once, we even stayed to watch illuminations – just the two of us.
we first used one of the centers when we wanted to enjoy a romantic dinner alone.
we’ve also scheduled romantic dinners at jiko or at the yachtsman
what would your ideal “disney date” be?
view all posts by pixielesley → blog facebook
our date nights might include a night at the park enjoying the rides together (we’ve hit magic kingdom on our own for a few hours once and it was wonderful; we felt like honeymooners again!).
we love staying on property and experiencing disney cruises together.
we hesitated many years before giving them a try, but once we did, we  didn’t look back.
she is currently offering generous booking incentives (disney gift cards and disney on board credits for disney cruiseline) as well as $200 per person disney gift cards for all adventures by disney vacations!
and you don’t have to be staying at the hotel to use its child care center!
use disney’s child care centers if you are on a trip to disney but want a night out adults only disney has  amazing child care centers located at many of the deluxe resort hotels that you  can take advantage of during your vacation!
this past november, my husband tim and i headed down to disney world for  our first-ever adults only getaway.
upon returning to pick up our kids, they begged us to let them stay  longer, so we left them there for an additional hour while we relaxed with a  drink at the hotel bar.
we love staying on  property and experiencing disney cruises together.
i have traveled with my family to disney 1-2 times per year  since my kids were babies and now they are 11 and 8.
and you don’t have to be staying at the hotel to use its child  care center!
we enjoy our family vacations to disney very  much, watching the magic through our children’s eyes, but we’ve  also learned that adult time in disney can be just as magical for us –  sometimes even more so!
let’s take the kids to disney world!
lesley is a travel agent with pixie vacations, contact her for  your next disney vacation at lesley@pixievacations.com or check her out at www.destinationmagic.com.
they had just put up the christmas decorations, and it was the perfect time to visit.
i would love to help you  plan an amazing disney vacation for you and your family too!
related articles disney world quick tips – what to do when it rains (chipandco.com) disney world quick tips – affordable disney
check out this special offer: dooney and bourke exclusively for  disney parks now available at disneystore.com!
at first, i felt guilty leaving the kids behind while we went to disney,
disney world is not just for kids wednesday, april 11, 2012    pixielesley   no comments let’s take the kids to disney world!
the parks offer plenty for adults who’d  prefer to party or just plain relax.
so, the next time you plan your disney vacation, don’t think of it as  only a family affair, but rather take some time to also enjoy it as a couple.
so, the next time you plan your disney vacation, don’t think of it as only a family affair, but rather take some time to also enjoy it as a couple.
we loved walking over to epcot for thefood and wine festival, then  strolling over to hollywood studios for theosborne lights.
we slept in (try doing that with the kids along!), shopped  around, enjoyed long romantic dinners, and treasured the ‘us’ time  that every marriage needs and deserves.
posted in: blogging, florida, parks &  resorts, planning, tips and tricks   tags: boardwalk, disney, disney world, epcot, magic kingdom, orlando vacations, walt disney company, walt disney world  resort sponsored by
upon returning to pick up our kids, they begged us to let them stay longer, so we left them there for an additional hour while we relaxed with a drink at the hotel bar.
since it was just the two of us, we were able to use single rider lines.
i have traveled with my family to disney 1-2 times per year since my kids were babies and now they are 11 and 8.
you won’t regret it!
check out the latest deals and offers from: enter your email address to subscribe to our daily disney newsletter: powered by pixie dust and feedburner lesley sawhook has written 7 post on chip and co.. i am a lover of all things disney which resulted in my becoming a disney travel specialist.
we loved staying at the boardwalk and staying out late with our friends – just sitting, talking, and enjoying the atmosphere with an adult beverage.
we slept in (try doing that with the kids along!), shopped around, enjoyed long romantic dinners, and treasured the ‘us’ time that every marriage needs and deserves.
we thought by then the kids would have had enough of the neverland club,  but when we picked them up they pleaded with us to drop them off there again  the next day.
when my husband and i first went to disney world, it was as honeymooners without kids.
we now make sure on family vacations to schedule at least one date night for the two of us.
another time, we left the kids at the neverland club at the polynesian and enjoyed four hours of adult time at epcot’s food and wine festival.
or better yet, plan an adult getaway!
our date nights might include a night at the park enjoying  the rides together (we’ve hit magic kingdom on our own for a few hours  once and it was wonderful; we felt like honeymooners again!).
we booked 3 nights/4 days at the boardwalk, met another couple down there, and had an incredible time!
or better yet,  plan an adult getaway!
then, starting in 1998, we made our trips with our two little ones every year (or more than once per year).
she is currently offering generous booking  incentives (disney gift cards and disney on board credits for disney  cruiseline) as well as $200 per person disney gift cards for all adventures by  disney vacations!
when my husband and i first went to disney world, it was as honeymooners  without kids.
we were there during the last weekend of the food and wine festival.
then, starting in 1998, we made our trips with our two little ones every  year (or more than once per year).
lesley is a travel agent with pixie vacations, contact her for your next disney vacation at lesley@pixievacations.com or check her out at www.destinationmagic.com.
we hesitated many years before giving them a try, but once we did, we didn’t look back.
we now make sure on family vacations to schedule at least one date night  for the two of us.
or better yet, let’s not !
we’ve also scheduled romantic dinners at jiko or at the yachtsman steakhouse, evenings at the food and wine festival, or just a few hours strolling through the world showcase without having to worry about pushing strollers or standing in lines for characters.
click here to plan your disney dining with ease.
use disney’s child care centers if you are on a trip to disney but want a night out adults only disney has amazing child care centers located at many of the deluxe resort hotels that you can take advantage of during your vacation!