go togames on the web site and print out up to 10 pictures of little pim to color in, with vocabulary included.
each coloring page teaches a new word or phrase.
our “vocabulary booster apps” are also very easy to use and affordable ($1.99 each) even for kids as young as two, and reinforce the words taught in the dvd series.
name (required) e-mail (required, but will not display) website refresh provided by ijoomla seo
it’s never too young to start introducing your child to a second language and it will not interfere with their english language learning.
culture traveling mom: are any of your products useful for kids to use on a trip?
you can help out by naming objects the  first time (a tree =
related articles/posts snowshoe for free family fun...
the flash cards provide a great  activity for parents and kids to do together while on the go, and the parents  do not need to speak the language themselves, as all our products come with  easy to use phonetic guides.
culture traveling mom: what is the value of teaching a  foreign language to our children?
“un arbre” or a car =
each 3-dvd set teaches 360 words and phrases, and the kids are exposed to native speakers with perfect accents.
the winner gets their pick of snacks to eat.
culture traveling mom: when should a parent start teaching their children foreign languages?
the method is a mix of  real kids doing everyday activities, and little pim the panda, the teacher,  introducing and repeating simple words and phrases.
no vocabulary drills or memorization – just try to  teach them a few simple words and phrases and show them what you love about the  place you are visiting (the food, the music, the traditions, etc).
if they start learning young, they will have better  accents, learn new vocabulary with ease, and jump start a life-long interest in  language learning.
pimsleur: the digital downloads are very convenient to  bring on a trip, as are the flash cards (which come in a sturdy box that is  great for on the go).
they will pick up much more vocabulary when they are there, so no need to make that a chore before you go.
there are all  of the normal factors to be cons...
culture traveling mom: when a family is  traveling in a country where english is not the native language, what is the  best way to get the kids immersed and interested in that language?
culture traveling mom: what is the pimsleur approach and  how does it differ from other language-learning products?
pimsleur: my father, dr. paul pimsleur, created the  pimsleur method, which is an audio only method that allows adults to get  conversational quickly in a foreign language.
culture traveling mom: what are some games that you can suggest for kids to play while traveling that incorporate language learning?
if you are traveling with a dvd player, bring along the  dvds.
the method is a mix of real kids doing everyday activities, and little pim the panda, the teacher, introducing and repeating simple words and phrases.
the apps are a great go-to game if you have an itouch, iphone or ipad  (search “word bag” or “talking coloring book” in  itunes).
you've got to figure out what you'll need, how to fold it and how to  fit it all into a bag small enough to fit in the overhead bin.
pimsleur: little pim foreign language dvds provide educational entertainment for your kids during travel times, and they will amaze you with how many words they can learn in spanish, french or chinese in one plane or car ride!
2) print out the little pim coloring pages from our web site and have kids  color them in the back seat (you’ll need crayons and a lap desk or a hard  cover book to lean).
we know no child is going to tug on her mom’s pant leg and say “i want to learn mandarin chinese!”
free downloadable coloring pages can be found under games on our web site.
see how high you can get before forgetting how to say it!
culture traveling mom: when a family is traveling in a country where english is not the native language, what is the best way to get the kids immersed and interested in that language?
if they start learning young, they will have better accents, learn new vocabulary with ease, and jump start a life-long interest in language learning.
pimsleur: the  earlier you start the better.
culture traveling mom: what is the value of teaching a foreign language to our children?
pimsleur: we offer all our dvds as digital downloads (35 minutes per dvd) that play on any computers or handheld devices such as the iphone, itouch, or ipad.
culture traveling mom: how can a child have fun and learn  a foreign language at the same time?
it’s never too young to start introducing  your child to a second language and it will not interfere with their english  language learning.
pimsleur: little pim the panda makes language learning fun.
pimsleur: 1) play a game where every child gets a point for naming an object you see  out the window in another language.
but a  winter road trip can also be a fun family holiday adventure.
written by holly rosen fink tuesday, november 16, 2010 01:01pimsleur, language learning, paul pimsleur, julia pimsleur levine culture traveling mom: please tell us how your products can help make travel time easier for parents.
our little pim dvds use the “entertainment immersion method”, which allows even very young children to start learning and speaking a second language via total immersion (with optional english subtitles for their grown ups).
babies and toddlers can listen to cds and books and as they get older, you can introduce dvds and interactive games.
but she will say “i want to watch the panda!”
they will have an even better time when they get there if they know a bit of what to expect and can speak a few words to make their needs known.
each 3-dvd set teaches 360  words and phrases, and the kids are exposed to native speakers with perfect  accents.
the flash cards provide a great activity for parents and kids to do together while on the go, and the parents do not need to speak the language themselves, as all our products come with easy to use phonetic guides.
why is the best one for children?
for families who love the snow and  outdoor winter fun, a low investment, easy-to-do sport is to snowshoe.
what i  like about snowshoeing is that you can do it just about anywhere, as long as  there is su...
babies and toddlers can listen to cds and books and as they  get older, you can introduce dvds and interactive games.
if you are traveling with a dvd player, bring along the dvds.
but she will say “i want to watch the  panda!”
go togames  on the web site and print out up to 10 pictures of little pim to color in,  with vocabulary included.
kids love watching his adventures and want to watch him over and over  again.
culture traveling mom: what are some games that you can  suggest for kids to play while traveling that incorporate language learning?
children who can speak another language will have their pick of the best jobs when they grow up, and will be at ease living and working in more than one country.
“une voiture”) and your kids can call them out the next time.
they cost $14.95 per 35 minute dvd or a reduced price of $41.95 for three dvds.
5) get “countable” snacks (like peanuts, grapes or raisins) and count off in the foreign  language.
10 tips for safer winter road trips...
pimsleur: little pim the panda makes language learning  fun.
nine practical packing tips...
she also suggested some games for kids to play while  traveling that incorporate language learning.
3) play music in a foreign language and encourage your kids to sing along 4)
culture traveling mom: does pimsleur offer any  downloadables or online material for kids to take on a trip?
5) get “countable” snacks (like peanuts, grapes or raisins) and count off in the foreign language.
why is the best one  for children?
culture traveling mom: does pimsleur offer any downloadables or online material for kids to take on a trip?
above all,  try to make it fun!
children who can speak another language will have  their pick of the best jobs when they grow up, and will be at ease living and  working in more than one country.
above all, try to make it fun!
our little pim dvds use the  “entertainment immersion method”, which allows even very young  children to start learning and speaking a second language via total immersion  (with optional english subtitles for their grown ups).
if you can, set aside a special time to learn with them (such as “italian breakfast every wednesday” or “spanish at bath time”) as then kids will be able to know when to switch into that learning mode and you will also have a set time to bring these materials to their attention.
we know no  child is going to tug on her mom’s pant leg and say “i want to  learn mandarin chinese!”
pimsleur: we offer all our dvds as digital downloads (35 minutes per  dvd) that play on any computers or handheld devices such as the iphone, itouch,  or ipad.
pimsleur: a few weeks before your trip, start introducing the language of the country you’ll be visiting by playing cds and dvds and reading your children books that expose them to the culture of the country.
when they watch, and repeat after little pim, they learn.
our “vocabulary booster apps” are also very  easy to use and affordable ($1.99 each) even for kids as young as two, and  reinforce the words taught in the dvd series.
whoever gets the most points gets a treat at the next rest stop or upon arrival.
pimsleur: there is a more of a need than ever for our  children to learn two languages, not only for the social and cultural benefits,  but to become active citizens of our increasingly global economy.
language learning & travel julia pimsleur levine written by holly rosen fink  tuesday, november 16, 2010 01:01 pimsleur, language learning, paul pimsleur, julia pimsleur levine julia pimsleur levine is the president of the little pim corporation, which  produces and distributes thelittle pim: fun with languages series to  introduce young children to a second language.
culture traveling mom: please tell us how your products  can help make travel time easier for parents.
and the (other) crazy drivers.
whoever gets the most points gets a treat  at the next rest stop or upon arrival.
pimsleur: 1) play a game where every child gets a point for naming an object you see out the window in another language.
they cost $14.95 per 35 minute dvd or a reduced price of $41.95 for  three dvds.
packing is never the best part of  traveling.
they will  have an even better time when they get there if they know a bit of what to  expect and can speak a few words to make their needs known.
no vocabulary drills or memorization – just try to teach them a few simple words and phrases and show them what you love about the place you are visiting (the food, the music, the traditions, etc).
if you can, set aside a special time to learn with them (such as “italian  breakfast every wednesday” or “spanish at bath time”) as then  kids will be able to know when to switch into that learning mode and you will  also have a set time to bring these materials to their attention.
pimsleur: there is a more of a need than ever for our children to learn two languages, not only for the social and cultural benefits, but to become active citizens of our increasingly global economy.
i recently asked julia a few  questions about her products and how they can help make travel time easier for  traveling moms.
bring flash cards and award prizes for the child who gets the most  right, or with one child, a small treat if they can get 5 right in a row.
culture traveling mom: are any of your products useful for  kids to use on a trip?
kids love watching his adventures and want to watch him over and over again.
i grew up in the language teaching business and was inspired by my father’s method to create a children’s version that introduces kids to a second language at the age they learn best, which is before the age of six.
the... preparing for travel with your special needs child... it doesn’t  matter if you are leaving for a few hours or a few days, if you have a special  needs child preparation is key to a successful, enjoyable trip.
culture traveling mom: when should a parent start teaching  their children foreign languages?
proficiency in foreign languages and an understanding of other cultures used to  be a “nice to have” but have really become essential skills in the  twenty-first century.
pimsleur: the digital downloads are very convenient to bring on a trip, as are the flash cards (which come in a sturdy box that is great for on the go).
they will pick up  much more vocabulary when they are there, so no need to make that a chore  before you go.
culture traveling mom: what is the pimsleur approach and how does it differ from other language-learning products?
bring flash cards and award prizes for the child who gets the most right, or with one child, a small treat if they can get 5 right in a row.
curly girls' guide to caribbean hair... not that i'm going to the  caribbean or anything, but this is the time of year when one fantasizes about  leaving the frigid temperatures for warmer climes.
2) print out the little pim coloring pages from our web site and have kids color them in the back seat (you’ll need crayons and a lap desk or a hard cover book to lean).
the winner  gets their pick of snacks to eat.
pimsleur: the earlier you start the better.
culture traveling mom: how can a child have fun and learn a foreign language at the same time?
pimsleur: my father, dr. paul pimsleur, created the pimsleur method, which is an audio only method that allows adults to get conversational quickly in a foreign language.
the apps are a great go-to game if you have an itouch, iphone or ipad (search “word bag” or “talking coloring book” in itunes).
“une  voiture”) and your kids can call them out the next time.
free downloadable coloring pages can be found under games on our  web site.
proficiency in foreign languages and an understanding of other cultures used to be a “nice to have” but have really become essential skills in the twenty-first century.
pimsleur: a few weeks before your trip, start introducing  the language of the country you’ll be visiting by playing cds and dvds  and reading your children books that expose them to the culture of the country.
pimsleur: little pim foreign language dvds provide  educational entertainment for your kids during travel times, and they will  amaze you with how many words they can learn in spanish, french or chinese in  one plane or car ride!
i grew up in the language  teaching business and was inspired by my father’s method to create a  children’s version that introduces kids to a second language at the age  they learn best, which is before the age of six.
winter road trips can be scary.
you can help out by naming objects the first time (a tree =