children who  study foreign languages and cultures gain a better understanding of the world  and thus have greater potential in international and intercultural  communication.
home |principal's message|meyonohk staff||why a foreign language|learning mandarin|registration information| information center | contact copyright © 2009 meyonohk school all rights reserved
*the mandarin bilingual program allows children to receive the appropriate amount of time needed to gain a high level of proficiency.
in the era of global communication, it is important to be able to  negotiate, trade and exchange ideas in foreign languages with appropriate  attention to cultural differences.
students of foreign language benefit academically in many ways as neural pathways are enhanced, supporting them in many other academic learning tasks.
learning mandarin registration information piim: parents interested in meyonohk programs district priorities year of the dragon contact us links for kids why should a child learn a foreign language?
although chinese is listed as a group iv language, its grammar at the very basic level is quite simple for children to learn.
- a long sequence of training is required for achieving a high level of proficiency since chinese is listed by the foreign service institute as a group iv language.
unlike western languages, chinese characters do not have changes with word endings for gender, case, number, person or tense.
we hope the understanding they gain will be  of great significance to the harmony of our world.
- writing chinese characters helps children acquire fine motor skills since character writing requires visual-hand coordination and awareness of proportion.
- starting chinese studies at an early age can enable children to be more successful with the four tones in chinese pronunciation, which is crucial for communication.
links for kids why should a child learn a foreign language?
learning foreign languages allows children to improve their self concept and sense of accomplishment during school.
the early years of childhood are the most significant years in which a development of attitudes toward different cultures is formed.
therefore, they tend to be more successful in the pronunciation  of a new language.
*the mandarin bilingual  program allows children to receive the appropriate amount of time needed to  gain a high level of proficiency.
starting chinese studies at an early age can enable children to be more  successful with the four tones in chinese pronunciation, which is crucial for  communication.
- early exposure to the chinese language and culture will provide children with an opportunity to explore lifestyles, values and beliefs that are very different from our own.
this means that learning chinese takes 2.5 to 3 times  the time necessary to gain the same level of proficiency as a group 1 language  such as french, german or spanish.
the early years of childhood are the most significant years in which a  development of attitudes toward different cultures is formed.
it is completely unrelated to the indo-european language family, to which english and most other european languages belong.
therefore, they tend to be more successful in the pronunciation of a new language.
we are grateful to the far east book co., ltd. for providing the  information presented above.
we are grateful to the far east book co., ltd. for providing the information presented above.
- experts believe that early exposure to an idea or experience that is "foreign" can become the driving force for cognitive development.
the initial stage of chiense language learning requires imitation and repetition, both of which children enjoy doing, particularly when incorporated into the context of games, rhymes, songs and skits.
a long sequence of training is required for achieving a  high level  of proficiency since chinese is listed by the foreign service institute as a  group iv language.
learning foreign languages allows children to improve their self concept  and sense of accomplishment during school.
home |principal's  message|meyonohk staff||why
unlike  western languages, chinese characters do not have changes with word endings for  gender, case, number, person or tense.
it is completely unrelated to the indo-european language family,  to which english and most other european languages belong.
chinese is a member of the sino-tibetan language  family.
children are able to gain a better communicative fluency if they are exposed to a foreign language for a long period of time.
children will benefit from their early  experiences with chinese studies as they grow up in an increasingly global and  multicultural society.
early exposure to the chinese language and culture will provide children  with an opportunity to explore lifestyles, values and beliefs that are very  different from our own.
we hope the understanding they gain will be of great significance to the harmony of our world.
although chinese is listed as a group iv language, its grammar at  the very basic level is quite simple for children to learn.
- since china has maintained one of the fastest growing economies in the world for over twenty years, studying chinese at an early age can further a child's potential for a future career in international trade and intercultural exchange.
the initial stage of chiense  language learning requires imitation and repetition, both of which children  enjoy doing, particularly when incorporated into the context of games, rhymes,  songs and skits.
children are more susceptible to foreign sounds than adults and adolescents, making them more capable of identifying and forming new sounds.
experts believe that early exposure to an idea or experience that is  "foreign" can become the driving force for cognitive  development.
why chinese for children?
children who study foreign languages and cultures gain a better understanding of the world and thus have greater potential in international and intercultural communication.
therefore, an  early exposure to chinese will enhance a child's menatal flexibility,  creativity, divergent thinking and complex thinking skills.
therefore, an early exposure to chinese will enhance a child's menatal flexibility, creativity, divergent thinking and complex thinking skills.
children are able to gain a better communicative fluency if they are  exposed to a foreign language for a long period of time.
chinese is a member of the sino-tibetan language family.
a foreign language|learning mandarin|registration  information| information center | contact copyright © 2009 meyonohk school all rights reserved
children are more susceptible to foreign sounds than adults and  adolescents, making them more capable of identifying and forming new  sounds.
writing chinese characters helps children acquire fine motor skills since  character writing requires visual-hand coordination and awareness of proportion.
since china has maintained one of the fastest growing economies in the  world for over twenty years, studying chinese at an early age can further a  child's potential for a future career in international trade and intercultural  exchange.
- in the era of global communication, it is important to be able to negotiate, trade and exchange ideas in foreign languages with appropriate attention to cultural differences.
students of  foreign language benefit academically in many ways as neural pathways  are enhanced, supporting them in many other academic learning tasks.
this means that learning chinese takes 2.5 to 3 times the time necessary to gain the same level of proficiency as a group 1 language such as french, german or spanish.
children will benefit from their early experiences with chinese studies as they grow up in an increasingly global and multicultural society.
home | about us | site map | contact us | principal's message meyonohk staff why a foreign language?