when you do start to drop syllables or to  speak quickly like a native you will sounds even better.
you are multi-tasking.
a brief synopsis of the video: making language studies convenient and easy is very important.
whatever you can get your hands ons.
slow it down: everyone loves a good slow jam.
this is really just a different take on the same principle ive mentioned before about listening and mimicing.
however, it is the most important book in my collection because it makes language learning convenient and immediate.
here are a few reasons you should be using primarily native materials supplemented by formal books to help refine your language skills.
be a copy cat – i know that your mom told you that it isnt nice to be a copy cat but when learning a foreign language it pays.
although making associations, no matter how wild as long as they make sense to you, are important you still need to be able to relate the words you are learning to say with their authentic visual form.
do you ever think about 2nd grade and say history, math or english class was hard?
facebook - twitter - digg -stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit written by aaron
so i just write down balcony and i will look it up later.
i dont think that we have supernatural powers but at the same time feel that what holds many back are our own minds.
i look at every thing around and think of all of the items for which i dont know the name.
unless you child istwo and should be in mensa then you probably have severely unrealistic expectations.
look for a dictionary with precise, up to date and adequate definitions.
possibly even keeping a personal journal in your new foreign language.
here are some examples and resources for succesful sing study.
that doesnt mean you wont make mistakes ( thats accuracy ) but you will be able to hold extemporaneous conversations.
another reason why i love pen and paper is because they are extremely portable and quick.
i think this is a great source for those looking for a language school.
if anyone else loves pen and paper as a language learning tool or has other favorites feel free to post them in the comments.
so here are the situations where kids can become naturally fluent in a foreign language.
i know natives dont always pronounce each syllable but learn  it correctly first
this dictionary is french only so i only started using it after i was conversational.
language dictionaries, lesson books, grammar books and other miscellaneous language products.
© letutor language school 2012
so why would you do the same when learning a foreign language?
natural is better - language learning is more natural when it is extemporaneous and in the moment.
a very small pocket dictionary.
if this is you im sorry to break your heart but its not going to happen.
i think that part of the reason that we think that kids learn easier is because they dont remember how hard it was because it was just part of life.
if you enjoyed this post then subscribe to our rss or receive email notifications of new blog posts.
well from my own experience while living in france i sang often and everytime i learned something new about the language.
it may take you a little longer because the writing isnt dumbed down, but youll learn real sentence structure, patters and rhythm.
subscribe to our email newsletter for news, language, tips and site updates.
no matter what your child can learn a foreign language.
adults are no different than kids in our ability to learn except that we have this intellectual or emotional baggage that tells that we cant do something or that it is too difficult and not worth trying.
youd be surprised to know thats extremely simple.
we have experienced and native level speaking instructors who will teach you to speak spanish.
well its amazing versatile.
so in an effort to feel like you are immersed in the language you should try and interact with native materials.
i have piles of paper where i have wrote and rewrote the different french conjugations until i had memorized all of them and they were like second nature.
however, there a few that you just cant do without.
work that kids just saw as part of life and occured naturally for them in their daily activities.
so do i think that it is easier for kids to learn a foreign language than adults.
* there are always exceptions
that has a nice ring to it.
the books gives you a lot of vocabulary words that are important in certain subjects but you may have not have thought of because they are more idiomatic or technical words that are uncommon.
learn spanish guide, all about how to learn spanish and how to speak spanishfacebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit written by aaron comments off | print this post let me first say that yes starting a childs language education as early as possible is always ideal and the most beneficial.
adults can achieve the same results but it takes time and hard work.
comments off | print this post should we start with a round of 20 questions or should i just tell you.
i often get asked by adult students if it is too late for them to learn a foreign language.
- remembering new words – when im learning new words i try and use them as quickly as possible as long as its a useful word.
we also teach 10 other major languagesfacebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit written by aaron comments off | print this post im sure that those of you who have been studying foreign languages for a little or long while have used a few if not dozens language books.
sign up for newsletter schedulea free class!480-626-5180 subscribe to our email newsletter for news, language, tips and site updates.
for example if you are in the car and you have satellite radio tune into one of the foreign language stations.
make daily activities that you would do normally into language learning opportunities.
beginners will not want to focus heavily on these techniques but should definitely be aware of them and be using them as they progress.
additionally, adults have become accustomed to learning new thing quickly with their increase intelligence and experience.
leave a comment or subscribe to our blog and let us know what you think or what has worked for you.
alphabet and compound sounds – make sure that you know all of the alphabets individual and compound sounds so that you can say them without thinking.
although i eventually passed all of my contemporaries in ability it was not an easy thing.
you may have the words but stumble when it is time to speak because you have not developed the muscle memory or habit.
plan ahead – make sure that you think ahead about how you can make your language studies more natural.
foreign language music or podcasts on your ipod.
however, parents need to be educated and realistic about the options, priorities and their expectations.
- make believe – although i hate workbooks that make you fill in the blank i love to write my own fake conversations or letters.
consciously and sub consciously your brain knows you arent dealing with the real thing and isnt going to respond as well to materials that are just fluff.
comments off | print this post learning a foreign language through song is a great technique to improve your listening comprehension and speaking ability.
but if you work hard you will learn the language.
- learning new words – when im out and about i am very observant.
you can also look back on it and obviously see your progress.
so no matter what language you are learning do a simple search and try and find materials in your language of interest.
so what do i use pen and paper for?
i show books for different languages but you can find the books i show in almost any language easily with the exception of my extremely small french only dictionary.
then i progressed to reciting them by memory.
no matter how much technology advances, for me, nothing replaces pen and paper.
another way i use this same technique is if i hear a new word and i dont know what it is.
and i dont know what it means.
your speaking abilities will sound more polished and natural.
it is important for 2 reasons.
so dont limit yourself to my list but i will tell you mine as long as you promise not to limit yourself to my needs.
it does whatever i need it to do and i dont have to go buy a specific program or have access to a computer to use it.
i literally carried it with me everywhere i went for 1.5 years.
a large part of speaking  fluency is recall and muscle memory.
yes kids learn very effectively and it helps to start your children at a young age.
it needs to become second nature.
when i was learning french i chose the 6 most common conjugations and learned the different verb types.
i know all of those options are very expensive.
fear, doubt, apprehension, suspicion, laziness and preconceived notions about how something is.
so there has to be a certain level of exposure and commitment to the childs language education.
it seems to me that the language schools simply pay them a subscription fee to be listed on their website.
sign up for newsletter video regarding the amish language videos on early childhood language learning improve your accent and pronunciation tempe, az subscribe to our rss feed to receive the latest le tutor news and updates instantly!
you can also use these techniques to simply build speaking fluency.
*see our about page for more details.
normally when listening to native speakers they speak too fast for many beginners to truely pick up the little nuances in their pronuciation and accent.
improve your accent and pronunciation tempe, az written by aaron comments off |  print this post our latest language learning tip video teaches you how to improve  your accent and pronunciation in a foreign language.
because by the time you get home and can look it up youve completely forgot.
it also helps if they have examples of how the word is used contextually or idiomatically.
facebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit written by aaron
as you master and gain control over the sounds you will naturally begin to sound more and more like a native speaker.
by association: one of my favorite exercises is to read out loud.
written by aaron comments off | print this post summer is ending and that means everyone will have more free time.
singing is another form of reading out loud and allows you to see the words that you normally only hear.
written by aaron comments off | print this post our latest language learning tip video teaches you how to improve your accent and pronunciation in a foreign language.
next i created sentences and used all of the conjugations for each pronoun in each tense until is was second nature.
ill either ask the person right then, what does x mean?, or ill write it down and look it up later.
this is a simple article to educate and dispel some of the common myths about childhood language acquisition.
so sing in your car, in a choir or in the shower but make sure you exaggerate.
im also pretty sure that youve found your most effective language learning experiences have been when you are immersed in the language.
i hope this helps you get started learning your desired foreign language or improves your current studies.
so basically they are native.
dr. prevots has posted a useful archive lyrics to many french songs on his website.
so why pen and paper?
often times youll think of a word and then forget it
comments off | print this post are you having a hard time finding spanish study materials online?
i think that language learning is the same way.
and then you can adjust later.
private spanish lessons are more effective than generic classes that only make you memorize words.
you benefit: in the end it will be you who benefits.
even then they will be learning it for another 8-10 years depending on their education.
if you are interested in spanish classes just visit our lessons page to find out more or visit ourcontact page to request our brochure or to schedule a trial lesson.
also, you get to, again, practice you speaking ability.
beginners will not want to focus heavily on these techniques but should  definitely be aware of them and be using them as they progress.
- repetition – when i was learning french i was the slowest learner in my group.
well one it makes sense and two i said so.
*before i go any further let me share my list of most important to dos for every parent.
singing, especially when you have the lyrics to read, helps you by slowing down the speed and allowing you to really hear the words.
now this is also if the kids truly grow up in a bilingual situation.
reading out loud allows you to associate the words you normally hear spoken with the a visual image.
jeremy writes about learning japanese by singing.
this is a great way to learn to speak a foreign language.
pick a subject and study them.
youre so dramatic: normally being a drama queen isnt appreciated by most but in this situation a little exaggeration goes a long way.
fluency is different than accuracy and fluency is achieved when you no longer have to think about what you are saying just like a native.
beginner spanish conversational spanish spanish for kids medical spanish spanish medical dictionary technical spanish lessons intermediate spanish lessons business spanish 123 teach me also provides a list of spanish language schools in spanish speaking countries that you can contact if you want to explore learning abroad.
dont  forget tosubscribe to our blog by clicking on the green counter at the top right and please rate our videos at  youtube.
slow - when you practice take your time and sound  out each syllable.
watch the news in spanish.
imitate everything they say and how they  say.
singing allows you to exaggerate your words, pronunciation and accent, without looking like a complete weirdo.
ive been thought about this for a long time and these are just some of my personal rantings about kids vs adults in language learning.
let me know what you think and if you have any of your own tips.
adults are just more aware of all of the hard work it takes to learn a language.
you may have the words but stumble when it  is time to speak because you have not developed the muscle memory or habit.
pen and paper also connects you with the words you are learning.
how to make language learning more convenient: 1.
facebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us - furl - reddit subscribe to our rss subscribe to our blog and get all the latest information about new languages...
as adults we build up language learning too much in our minds as something hard or think it will be easy and then get discouraged when we dont speak fluently in 30 days.
teach me at first glance looks like a simple website, but seem to offer a good variety of language learning resources for their visitors.
dont forget tosubscribe to our blog by clicking on the green counter at the top right and please rate our videos at youtube.
uber tiny pocket dictionary: i found this dictionary while living in france and fell in love.
written by aaron comments off | print this post most people who are studying foreign languages will have a whole library of books about their language of interest.
theme based dictionaries: i personally really like mastering language vocabulary by barrons but im sure there are others that are very good.
i no longer had to think about conjugating and i could actually become fluent in conversation.
you may learn faster or slower than the next
so you arent convinced.
heres the blog post that reignited this subject for me.
sometimes though it takes a couple of times of looking it up before it sticks so instead of hauling out the dictionary i write a brief definition of the word in my notebook and then i just quick reference it while im in the act.
be involved be patient be consistent be proactive think long term so lets first address some of the common knowledge about kids and learning a foreign language.
they even give details regarding each schools costs, website, amenities, living arrangements and specialties.
if anyone asks its mine and ive copyrighted the term. : )
heres a short list of the learning materials and tutorials they provide.
no one speaks this way.
natural flow: all of these materials dont flow naturally the way real people would speak or write the language.
end summer by starting spanish lessons or spanish tutoring for school.
a small notepad always at the ready.
when you do start to drop syllables or to speak quickly like a native you will sounds even better.
what is nice about this section of their website is that they dont mislead you into thinking they are the school and they dont seem to take a commission from the school which reduces your costs.
im not sure that it is an easier for younger children to learn a foreign language but it does seem that the end result is a more fluid and natural speaker of the 2nd language.
choose someone whos accent and pronunciation you enjoy and do your best to speak like them.
my response is always that anyone can learn a foreign language.
when the going gets tough – when language learning becomes difficult or a chore students often give up or move on.
i started by writing them hundreds of times each until i could recite them without thinking.
materials are available and probably a lot cheaper than your books you get from borders.
warning: the first couple of months maybe complete gibberish until you start making progress but it will give you great experience in making real sentences as if you were having conversation.
comments off | print this post heres a language learning tip that is a personal favorite.
in fact 1/3 of all of phoenix speaks spanish.
i know natives dont always pronounce each syllable but learn it correctly first
imitate everything they say and how they say.
they dont have to be grammar books or practice exercises you need to get authentic french, spanish or japanese magazines, music or books.
choose someone whos accent and pronunciation you enjoy and do your best to  speak like them.
use convenient tools – make sure that you have the tools necessary to help you make language learning convenient.
we look forward to teaching you to communicate in spanish.
for example im out walking in the streets and i see a balcony
well heres another potential resource for you.http://www.123teachme.com is an online spanish resource and guide.
a large part of speaking fluency is recall and muscle memory.
i think that even though 123 teach me is not an amazing website and could use some more content it does offer some really good resources, learning materials and a solid language school directory for those considering learning spanish abroad.
no pda to turn on or dig out of my bag just pull out an index card or small notebook and a pen from my pocket, jot down a note and back to what i was doing.
be a copy cat – i know that your mom told you  that it isnt nice to be a copy cat but when learning a foreign language it  pays.
adults learning a foreign language think it is hard because they are more conscious of the effort they are exerting in order to gain this new skill and knowledge.
your speaking abilities will  sound more polished and natural.
you can also  use these techniques to simply build speaking fluency.
exaggeration allows you to become familar with the often difficult sounds of a foreign language.
language has a humbling effect and probably takes the same amount of time to learn as an adult as it does as a child.
so whether you want to learn spanish to speak with your customers, get a better job, travel to mexico and south america or because youve always wanted to learn the language we can help.
now lets talk about how parents can accomplish this goal and how those without the means to do so can still give their kids a meaningful and effective language education.
at anytime i wanted to find out what a word meant that someone said in a conversation or while reading i instantly looked it up.
well like i said before it can be used for whatever your personal language learning needs are.
that way its immediate and i can use it right away.
too many parents think that it suffices to enroll their children in a 2 month or twice a week language program that lasts 45 minutes a class and expect their children to magically become fluent.
standard dictionary: although there are lots of dictionaries out there very few do it well.
facebook - twitter - digg - stumbleupon - del.icio.us -  furl - reddit convenient language learning in tempe, az written by aaron
with one on one practice and customized lessons youll be speaking much faster than anyone taking a regular spanish class.
if you are reading a formal english book you would look at it and think.
so check out their website and then give me some feedback.
alphabet and compound sounds – make sure that you  know all of the alphabets individual and compound sounds so that you can say  them without thinking.
slow - when you practice take your time and sound out each syllable.
it takes kids 7-8 years before they speak their native language extremely well.
before the age of 12-15 kids brains are still creating their network of neurons and that means that instead of installing a new language next to the original they are creating parallel paths in their brains that, to them, all mean the same thing and have no distinct difference.
my favorite language learning tool is pen and paper.
phoenix, arizona and its surrounding suburbs: tempe, mesa, chandler, gilbert, ahwatukee, scottsdale, paradise valley and glendale all have very large spanish speaking populations.
le tutor language services 480-626-5180 aaron@letutor.com
kids just do it because it is part of their life.
also, because songs are stories you will learn new words and the song will help you to commit them to memory and understand their meaning based on context.
french, spanish, german, italian, greek, japanese, russian, japanese, chinese, thai, vietnamese, tagalog, hebrew or english.
comments off | print this post im not one who believes that people are limited.
123 teach me has paid us to review their site in an unbiased manner and we will not offer anything less than our honest opinion.
so for those families without the means or time to dedicate here are some alternative options that will still yield serious and positive results.