i had thought, at the time, that i would probably be a technical writer, but i always had the mind-set of leaving my options open, of always looking around to see where i could best create value.
to my surprise, we came out a bit ahead, financially, because i was able to keep up with much of my work while saving on the cost of the school.
eric would certainly be the one to show me.
in parenthood, it's the gap between the healthy parenting ideas you embrace consciously and what you're actually capable of doing, here and now.
some could say at different points of peter's journey that "this was a failure" or "that was a success".
this november 2006 ended with the four of us sick, hanging out on the sofa  and watching quite a bit of of tv (national geographic, the food network, and  animal planet), learning quite a bit about dogs (we just found outsophie has  giardia probably from drinking from the creek or from the  soil?…how’s that?...what do we do?....yuck...), talking about  white blood cells, making stats sheets on pro football teams, and learninghow  to make chicken soup 3 different ways off of one chicken.
november 17, 2006 in about creating a life, about defining success, about homeschooling, about homeschooling & finances, about learning responsibility ,about lifestyle, about making a living, about parenting without school, about self-directed learners, about self-empowerment, about self-knowledge, about self-sufficiency, by: guest author | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, finances, homeschooling, homeschooling and finances, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us by laureen money.
when i went to college, i switched to french in my junior year.
who knows which skills will be the most important?
contact the editor: editor@comcast.net how do you unschool?
(and how many families do you know who have several children that turned out wonderfully well, and then there’s that one that just turned out terrible?
when my firstborn was very young, i pounced on each “learning  moment,” overly eager to make sure my daughter received every possible  kind of support and encouragement for learning.
even  things that are hard.
i think it’s a fallacy for parents (homeschooling or not) to take  credit for our adult children’s successes or failures.
(and how many families do you know who have several children that turned out  wonderfully well, and then there’s that one that just turned out  terrible?
peter decided to drop out and see if he could uncollege and  encourage others to explore the option.
i used to arrogantly think that when adult kids made rotten choices, their  parents must have failed horribly in some way.
how can we best support our children as they develop into self-directed  learners?
that’s  also part of the process of how i ended up in this life without school.
some could say at different points of peter's journey that  "this was a failure" or "that was a success".
we also “cover”  our science, our math, our geography, and our language arts in a similar  fashion.
it is for each of us to own our individual journeys and  everything in it that develops who we are through living and learning.
and in wading through finance information, i am routinely smacked  with fears, attachments, emotional wounds, unmet needs, and oh man, the  obsolete strategies.
and you can email her at  tammy.takahashi @ gmail(dot)com.
she loves living  and learning with her two daughters, who are turning out well despite being  raised far from the turbid waters of the mainstream.
if the things we plan  are enjoyable, interesting, and fun, the chance of  our child wanting to  learn more is increased.
president woodrow wilson was taught at home by his father, who wasn't concerned when woodrow didn't learn his letters and numbers as quickly as children who were in schools.
i figured that field trips with other homeschoolers, day trips on our own, and vacations like this one, provided perfect opportunities for learning to record what the kids have learned.
we are all on a path to discovering life as we go.
during this time, he began to investigate private fine arts colleges across the  nation that might have majors in his area of current interest, what would be  expected, and what the financial obligation would require.
and it won't matter whether they had been "prepared" as children for that topic.
wilson himself once said, "what need was there to read, when i could spend hours listening to others read aloud?"
from this example as well as our own experience with international adoption, has come a desire to provide a multi-cultural worldview for our homeschool.
we are creating our own personal goals and living them out, and we are  empowered by our own independence to change our direction and our goals when  they no longer serve us.
since beginning this move toward sanity,  we have seen our steps repeated by others, and now have a small circle of  friends and family members who have also chosen to back away from a stressful,  harried, and cheapened holiday season.
we are researching how to care for her and applying that information in real life.
we are reading  dog poems, dog stories, dog myths and legends.
that may be true in some cases, but it’s been proven  over and over and over to me that sometimes no matter how wonderfully kids are  parented (and homeschooled) they don’t always turn out that well.
i wish i could tell you that our trip to knott's is inspired by my son's love of california history, but i'm afraid it's the rides that are calling to him!
i felt grateful that my children were not into baseball, especially to that degree.
a friend, who had braved the  shopping chaos, said that the local outlet mall (“virginia’s number  one tourist attraction!”) was so packed with gift-seekers that parking  overflowed to outlying lots, and that it was “a zoo out there!"
i read with great interest stories of homeschooled or self-taught people, trying to find clues that would help me guide my children in a way that would result in them becoming self-directed.
a couple of scenarios from this article, excerpted from business week into the rd money column: problem: your kids get a generous allowance, but they still come to you for movie money and trendy clothing purchases.
most  of these books, magazines, toys, manipulatives, games, and other resources have  been disposed of—sold, given away, or donated tovahomeschoolers’  used resource sale—having never captured my children’s interest.
we are not scouring the nclb standards listings  of what our children should be learning.
the children find stocking stuffers and candy in their stockings, and a  few gifts under our little tree.
we spend little, stress none, and find great satisfaction.
a couple of weeks ago, laurel, the thirteen-year-old, noted matter-of-factly that she had just finished reading the unabridged “ pride and prejudice,” and today added that she has since then read “sense and sensibility,” and plans to read “ emma” soon.
while working through my own finance baggage, i realized that scott's gap exists every bit as much for money as it does for parenting.
one never knows what small act may plant the seeds of a revolution.
probably even more important, i  unconsciously modeled a love for reading and research, reading voraciously  whenever i can find a moment, sometimes when i should be doing something  else!
then, in  the late 1990s, i became close friends with someone who had emigrated from cuba  in 1992.
december 29, 2006 in about accountability , about autodidactic, about choice, about college, about compelling interest, about creating a life, about defining success, about designing a life, about exploring , about grades, about growing up without school, about how children learn, about interest driven learning, about learning is personal, about lifestyle, about making a living, about making meaning, about natural learning, about passion & purpose, about perceptions, about self-directed learners, about self-knowledge, about success, about unique individuals, about unschooling, more by: cindy, self-directed learners | permalink | comments (6) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, college, education, homeschooling, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us by marsha quite often when children experience difficulties in school, it's because of a bad fit.
january 04, 2007 in about authority , about autodidactic, about choice,  about creating a life, about curiosity, about defining success, about  educational neglect, about embracing life, about enjoying life, about  experimenting, about exploring , about family culture, about growing up without  school, about homeschooling, about how children learn, about interest driven
shay’s homeschool blog is called “anecdotal evidence,” and her web site is synergyfield.com.
an unschooling  failure?  and yet, eric was simply remaining true to what real learning is  and embracing the learning environment and perspective we created for him.
after thinking through this scenario and observing eric's subsequent  learning path, i realized that there were a couple things that i was to learn  for myself on my own learning journey with my adult-transitioning  children.
when i am aware of  a child having a particular interest, i will find as many ways to encourage  continued research and growth in that area.
when i graduated high school, i still couldn't keep a conversation going in the language.
when i went to  college, i switched to french in my junior year.
marsha | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, homeschooling, self-directed learners, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us by shay
but which specialties do kids usually choose when they go to college?
what’s wrong with the illustrations in my book, the complete  idiot’s guide to homeschooling, chapters 10 through 13?
robin considers herself a budding naturalist and  conservationist and a spiritual eclectic who enjoys celebrating the wheel of  the year with her own unique blend of earth-centered world traditions.
i read the book and found it  fascinating.
this does not mean that eric has been doing "nothing" since 16, although sometimes it can appear that way from the outside looking in.
having read david albert’s
she learned to weave on a little loom, and had a mexican themed birthday party.
and that our wanting things to be a certain way, or expecting  things a certain way, or even trying to predict what we need for the future,  creates samsara – it creates suffering.
i was able to get online teachers' guides at  pbs.org/masterpiece.
gift giving did not disappear, but we downplay the focus on material things.
...words that strike guilt, inadequacy, and fear, into the hearts of most of us.
because modeling is such a huge part of unschooling, i need to model fiscal responsibility and financial empowerment, if that’s what i want them to learn.
it’s never too late, however, whether our kids are four, ten or  thirty-four, to tell them we love them, to admit we’re human and we have  made mistakes, and to try to do better in the future.
what i'm understanding is that i don't get to define or own any  of my children's successes or failures.
why teach  a child that her self worth is wrapped up in performance at all, and especially  to faulty and invalid measures of real learning?
it's on-the-job training.
my husband is a mathematician, and although technically we could live on his salary, we wouldn't be able to save much for retirement if i didn't also work.
blog communities home/join | list | next | previous | random alt-webring.com a to z's blog listing homeschool journal previous | next
if they “proved” that they are learning this stuff, they might be considered excellent, motivated, average, above average, gifted, motivated, attentive, successful, and so on.
i learned how to learn through my studies of language because it was something that clicked with me, and i studied it because i wanted to.
“oh, i see  you made the number eight,” the mom said to her son, “that’s  cal ripkin’s number.”
you can help your child make portfolios or scrapbooks of his or her learning journey, too!
it's a tough lesson when a moment of irresponsibility ends up raising your insurance rates!
i used to arrogantly think that when adult kids made rotten choices, their parents must have failed horribly in some way.
he had taken two courses with very different instructors and expectations for what made up his end grade.
when thinking about woodrow being a later reader, i re-read some of dr. raymond moore's books, particularly "better late than early".
we can't prepare our kids for everything.
i 'got" language from the very first week i was in spanish class.
i love what i do professionally, and would want to continue even if it didn't contribute much to our bottom line.
as parents we can only do the best we can with what we know at the time and  keep doing the best we can all along the way.
technorati tags: alternative education, education, homeschooling,  self-directed learning, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us december 02, 2006 zen and the art of homeschooling
a freelance writer, marsha serves as a homeschool resource for her local  library and has written articles forhome education magazine and a  column forhome educator's family times.
i  understood how it worked because it made sense to me.
james garfield • william henry harrison • herbert hoover • thomas jefferson • andrew johnson • abraham lincoln • james madison •
eric began a more serious portfolio collection of his work.
we are taking a dog training course.
featured authors read more about who we are: alicia tammy hot topics what does accountability prove?
we are learning together and with friends, family and just folks we meet  at the library, the pet store, the grocery store and so on, and then there are  our fellow students in dog training class.
in other words, it's easy to change your mind, but implementing a change in your whole self is far more difficult, especially when going against the grain of society and culture.
she loves living and  learning with her two daughters, who are turning out well despite being raised  far from the turbid waters of the mainstream.
in a political-economic system such as we have in the united states, it is possible to create one's own opportunity; a person never need be constrained by someone else's vision of one's professional life.
if we were lucky enough to have financially astute parents, then maybe we got that knowledge passed to us, but the vast majority of us didn’t.
no one perspective should  hold a human being, especially a child, prisoner to its expectations.
we are not planning or performing to a set boxed “make it happen this way, today” curriculum.
why go to all that trouble to make a child fit a curriculum, a set  of standards defined by targeted (thus limited) detailed learning objectives  when the end result is a label, "good" or "bad"?
it was something that felt good to  pursue.
as parents we can only do the best we can with what we know at the time and keep doing the best we can all along the way.
i would not want to have to fake  interest in my children’s interests, and that would be the case with  baseball, or most any team sport.
laureen  | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, finances, homeschooling, homeschooling and finances, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us october 30, 2006 self directed learners: homeschooling presidents by marsha
i’m reading books and websites, i’m tackling one major pain point a month: tax filing system, insurance organization, creating a trust, establishing a money market account, learning about the stock market.
why label a child “good or bad” based on school performance?
she's a lifelong californian, which lends a very distinctive spin to both her ideas and her politics, and she's discovered, in her peregrinations, that the world is far smaller yet far more fascinating than anyone gives it credit for being.
if we let people pursue the things that make sense for them, they will  naturally pick the things that they "get”.
after thinking through this scenario and observing eric's subsequent learning path, i realized that there were a couple things that i was to learn for myself on my own learning journey with my adult-transitioning children.
day trips can be just as rewarding and educational!
the subjects that they already like.
find some nature journals at the library to use as examples.
and yet, eric was simply remaining true to what real learning is and embracing the learning environment and perspective we created for him.
are you homeschooling a child with special needs?
i try to model lifelong learning by indulging my love of books, reading out loud to my children early and often, having plenty of books available on subjects that interest them (and things i would like them to learn about), and visiting our library at least weekly.
another year, we explored the  traditions of her birth country and had a korean birthday party.
life takes care of the  content.
“a dog splurge,” you say, “does not an education  make.”
it would be impossible to duplicate the experiences of homeschoolers from the past, or even the present.
no matter what specific facts or skills we teach them, so long as they have the ability and confidence to learn, they are prepared for any path they choose.
while  i do have a general sense of what they are learning, and what they know, their  educational journeys are largely hidden from me.
january 13, 2007 in about being a dad, about being a mom, about defining  success, about family culture, about growing up without school, about  homeschooling, about learning together, about learning values, about parenting  without school, about success, about unschooling, more by: marsha | permalink |  comments (3) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, homeschooling,  imperfect homeschooling, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us january 04, 2007 life with out a formal education: living teachable moments
living out our "teachable moments" gives us a direct connection  to the learning that  lives in life, our lives.
december 08, 2006 in about childhood, about being a mom, about choice, about creating a life, about defining success, about designing a life, about enjoying life, about family culture, about homeschooling & finances, about learning together, about learning values, about lifestyle, about prepared for citizenship, about prepared to be a citizen, about psychological well-being, about self-empowerment, about self-knowledge, about self-sufficiency, about unschooling, about values, about why we homeschool | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, homeschooling, the holidays, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us by shay
one thing they will have, which i  never understood while growing up, is a sense that hard work--when it's  something you love--is pleasurable, and constitutes a significant part of a  fulfilled life.
and likewise, when our kids (adults, but yes, still our kids, in our hearts) choose horribly and end up in the ditch and either don’t choose to or find themselves unable to crawl back out again, we really shouldn’t beat ourselves up for it.
he has had his starts and stops in this  area, and learned an enormous amount about himself emotionally, and is now  eager to leave in mid-january to begin the pursuit of meeting this goal and  embracing all that it offers him in learning and growth.
they appreciate that the  holiday season no longer brings stress and strain to our home, right through to  the gift aftermath and emotional letdown.
“just make sure  you introduce some history (any history),” he said.
we also “cover” our science, our math, our geography, and our language arts in a similar fashion.
shay’s homeschool  blog is called “anecdotal evidence,” and her web site is  synergyfield.com.
she home schools her two daughters, madison (7) and  ella (5).
we get involved in life and pursue it.
a dog splurge does not make an education complete, and we were learning  more than about sophie these past november days.
i figured these life lessons would stand them in good stead, and so far, that has proven true.
madison was born in 1999, ella in 2001.
but i found that if i give myself the same patience and encouragement with baby  steps that i allow them, that i come along just fine.
good advice for anyone, this can also be part of your kids education.
nothing i say here do i consider  "the truth".
we work together until about noon, often with me having to interrupt myself from working with them to talk with clients or to answer emails (my laptop and i are joined at the hip).
we are not creating detailed learning objectives that must be met, now or never.
that feeling, over seven years ago, came from an awareness of what i now call the healing gap, a phenomenon that arises when a person consciously seeks a healthier path than the one
they can disregard our teachings totally some day.
a freelance writer, marsha serves as a homeschool resource for her local library and has written articles for "home education magazine" and a column for "home educator's family times."
they played captain smollett and mrs. hawkins, respectively,  in homeschool theatre troupe’s recent rendition of “treasure island .”
at first, my children and i were only able to identify what we did not like  about the holiday madness, but we were not sure exactly what we wanted to keep.
how can we best support our children as they develop into self-directed learners?
we are living those teachable moments by living our lives and learning as we go.
one of my greatest personal pleasures is that my girls get to see, every day, what work means.
i had an intellectual understanding of free-market economics in college, and when i started working, seeing this in action was a wonderful confirmation.
i  suspected that, given the declining quality of teachers over the past 40 years,  their main teacher would need to be me.
life takes care of the content.
our hearts rejoice when they choose wisely and when life is good  to them (sometimes as a direct result of their choices but sometimes no thanks  to them) and we grieve and yearn over them when they don’t choose wisely,  or when life knocks them down again and again.
do these not accumulate to create wisdom through living and learning?
eric began a  more serious portfolio collection of his work.
november 14, 2006 in about defining success, about enjoying life, about  homeschooling & finances, about learning responsibility, about learning  together, about responsibility to children, about unschooling, more by:
what’s wrong with the illustrations in my book, the complete idiot’s guide to homeschooling, chapters 10 through 13?
they made it known that i am privileged to be on their list of recipients of “the talisman,” howl in protest if i come into the room while they are writing, and they shoo me away from their theatre rehearsals, refusing to even let me hear their audition monologs.
they didn’t have to be prodigies, mind you, just demonstrate that they were, indeed, learning, and that they were, indeed, becoming themselves.
one of my greatest personal pleasures  is that my girls get to see, every day, what work means.
i suspected that, given the declining quality of teachers over the past 40 years, their main teacher would need to be me.
robin considers herself a budding naturalist and conservationist and a spiritual eclectic who enjoys celebrating the wheel of the year with her own unique blend of earth-centered world traditions.
if your child has a unique learning style, or learning differences, it's easy for him or her to fall behind if left in a typical classroom setting.
we spend little, stress none, and find great  satisfaction.
and my kids are watching.
pbs put out a 90 minute film on may 13, 2002, telling the extraordinary story of ms. conway's coming of age, from the windswept australian outback to the stately halls of academia - a journey of determination and courage.
it’s never too late, however, whether our kids are four, ten or thirty-four, to tell them we love them, to admit we’re human and we have made mistakes, and to try to do better in the future.
whatbreeds is she and what might that mean?
i don't think peter or eric think about it in that manner.
read morequestions for us.
when writing about my children’s education, i search for that  anecdotal evidence that learning happens—a task that is frustrated by my  daughters’ need for privacy, for their need of identities separate from  my own.
i home school my two daughters, madison (7) and ella (5).
eric sought these part-time jobs because he wanted the benefit of pursuing diverse interests during the other part of his available time that required the necessity of financial backing.
a recent article in reader's digest backs me up.
the learning is a direct primary reinforcement.
this | save to del.icio.us by tammy by far, the most important element of preparing our children for their future is to teach them how to learn.
john quincy adams • james buchanan • grover cleveland • millard fillmore •
we are not scouring the nclb standards listings of what our children should be learning.
while this may be a somewhat important skill for kids to develop  in a large classroom setting, truly gifted teachers do things that make kids  want to be ready to learn when the teacher walks in the door.
ain’t that a shocker to admit?
how, why and where did her breeds “evolve?”
so even before the girls were born, i designed my businesses  to be run from home so that i could be the one to educate them.
one is that i would continue to have to question and scrutinize the conditioned responses and expectations i hold from our societal and cultural surroundings regarding finding one's own pathway to adulthood.
when i was about 16, a friend remarked that the  possibilities for careers were expanding so quickly that it was likely that  what the two of us would end up doing probably hadn't been invented yet.
a friend, who had braved the shopping chaos, said that the local outlet mall (“virginia’s number one tourist attraction!”) was so packed with gift-seekers that parking overflowed to outlying lots, and that it was “a zoo out there!" instead of wending my way through ravenous throngs and standing in interminable lines that day, i enjoyed the lovely seventy-degree weather, hanging laundry on the line, and going on an extra-long bicycle ride.
we gave it a good try, but found it a grim, somewhat anti-intellectual place, with lots of rules.
isn’t the fact that homeschooled adults aren’t perfect, likely  related to the fact that most homeschooling families aren’t perfect,  because the members, including dad and mom aren’t perfect?
and in wading through finance information, i am routinely smacked with fears, attachments, emotional wounds, unmet needs, and oh man, the obsolete strategies.
a persective  shares a view into what is possibly right for me.
neither does the homeschooling community.
initially, he has not been willing to  compromise the learning principles, environment, and support from which he has  become accustomed through the unschooling lifestyle.
my son would be in kindergarten this year if in a traditional school setting, and my daughter would be in third grade.
december 02, 2006 in about confidence, about creating a life, about defining success, about embracing life, about enjoying life, about growing up without school, about interest driven learning, about lifestyle, about parenting without school, about self-directed learners, about self-empowerment, about self-knowledge, about self-sufficiency, about spirituality, about unschooling, more by: tammy, re: religion, self-directed learners | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, homeschooling, homeschooling and religion, unschooling, zen buddhism digg this | save to del.icio.us by debra i am the owner of axton enterprises, a technology consulting firm that helps mail-order businesses get set up and trained to use business-management software, and also the publisher ofkidsoutandabout.com, an upstate new york web site that shows parents everything going on in their local area for kids and families.
jill kerr conway, former president of smith college, was raised on a sheep station in australia and learned from life and correspondence lessons that she began at the age of eight.
when writing about my children’s education, i search for that anecdotal evidence that learning happens—a task that is frustrated by my daughters’ need for privacy, for their need of identities separate from my own.
it is based on acceptance and understanding.
while the public schools are preparing children for nclb testing by  teaching to pre-determined learning objectives and benchmarking progress at  pre-set intervals with carefully calculated pacing guides (did i get that  right?), we are…..not.
i don't  have expectations of what those things will be.
the girls watched them raptly, declaring them  “brilliant.”
even things that are hard.
at last, i can allow each of them complete  freedom in building her own “house of tomorrow.”
a freelance writer, marsha serves as a homeschool resource  for her local library and has written articles forhome education magazine and a column for home educator's family times.
i had the feeling that if my children were required to contribute to their own upkeep, so to speak, that they would acquire naturally a desire to be self-sufficient.
by cindy i ended my last post about my oldest son, eric's, first experience with  formal education through a dual-enrollment community college program.
the older girl has decided that—despite her teenager’s inclination to reject any resemblance to her mother—she likes sailing, and she is currently reading her way through the horatio hornblower novels.
by marsha quite often when children experience difficulties in school, it's because  of a bad fit.
one is that i would continue to have to question and scrutinize  the conditioned responses and expectations i hold from our societal and  cultural surroundings regarding finding one's own pathway to adulthood.
when my firstborn was very young, i pounced on each “learning moment,” overly eager to make sure my daughter received every possible kind of support and encouragement for learning.
because the girls liked the school so well, i decided to let them stay there for their early education, which would let me continue to work.
still,  my daughter, and her younger sister, laurel, did not latch on to any particular  interest, although children all around us were doing so.
i have always determined that my children would have the best education possible so that they will, in turn, be able to find their own dream jobs someday.
there is  no "preparation" for life.
that society's expectations for this age at this stage in this generation face.
i didn't know at the time that this is the essence of the entrepreneur.
trekking into the wilderness to study wild wolves!), i was anxious for my own children to displaysome kind of steady interest.
we may manage to mold and shape them to some extent, but  the fact remains that they have free will.
zen buddhism emphasizes being  open to the millions of possibilities.
as a first step toward a more satisfying holiday season, i purchased copies of "unplug the christmas machine" and "new traditions," books that helped my family define how we do want to celebrate.
my children, now 16 and 13, have repeatedly expressed pleasure at our having opted out of perpetuating the cycle of insatiable material gluttony that defines the holiday season for numerous americans.
anyone can learn something new, at any age.
yet no well-meaning relative quizzes our children on the value of the dollar against the euro; they just ask goofy questions about multiplication tables.
the trainer that we are taking classes from said lab mix, part rottweiler, and the mystery of "what is sophie" is taking us to tons of information and on a real life learning experience and a critical thinking extravaganza.
i had an  intellectual understanding of free-market economics in college, and when i  started working, seeing this in action was a wonderful confirmation.
while we certainly are prepared to spend a certain  amount of time with our children, helping them with their learning activities,  we are thrilled when the kids take off and run with their studies because they  want to learn more, because they are excited about the project,or the topic at  hand.
we don't have to provide a perfect environment for our kids to learn in, or have a degree, if we can provide a love for books and reading, and model a thirst for knowledge.
in  light of another discussion recently where a homeschool mother was requesting  tips because she was going to write a book to help families figure out the  perfect way to homeschool, this discussion resonated with me.
we are creating our own personal goals and living them out, and we are empowered by our own independence to change our direction and our goals when they no longer serve us.
and then, he had to start being honest with himself about how  unhappy he was jumping through these random hoops created in college  coursework.
in their own way international association of learning alternatives john taylor gatto lifeways: waldorf in the home live free learn free radio free school: life without school reasons to homeschool the central fallicy of public schooling the decision to unschool
isn’t the fact that homeschooled adults aren’t perfect, likely related to the fact that most homeschooling families aren’t perfect, because the members, including dad and mom aren’t perfect?
i felt grateful that my children were not  into baseball, especially to that degree.
learning, about learning is personal, about lifestyle, about making a living,  about making meaning, about natural learning, about passion & purpose,  about perceptions, about self-directed learners, about self-knowledge, about  success, about unique individuals, about unschooling, more by: cindy,  self-directed learners | permalink | comments (6) | trackback (0)
shay filed her  first notice of intent to homeschool in virginia in 1995.
children are self-directed whenever they decide what they need or want to learn, set their own goals, identify and find resources for learning, choose and use strategies for learning, or evaluate their own learning." as teachers, mentors, and homeschooling parents, we can encourage and develop self-direction in children by including them in planning their learning experiences, having them choose materials they will use, and understanding their learning style so we can support them along their learning journey.
another scenario: when you tell your kids to sink or swim with expenses, they sink.
my uncle told me when i was pregnant with #1 that children aren’t  blank slates that we can write on and have them turn out like we want them  to.
students can be self-directed in several ways and in different degrees.
seeing freedom anew through her eyes heightened my commitment to  participating fully in the system that makes so much achievement and wealth  possible here in this country.
december 29, 2006 in  about accountability , about autodidactic, about  choice, about college, about compelling interest, about creating a life, about  defining success, about designing a life, about exploring , about grades, about  growing up without school, about how children learn, about interest driven
an unschooling failure?
why label a child “good or bad” based on school  performance?
picking up the violin at an early age!
we live our teachable moments when we are actively engaged in our own  lives!
we are testing out behavior modification theory and taking note of dog and people psychology.
december 11, 2006 in about autodidactic, about creating a life, about defining success, about embracing life, about enjoying life, about experimenting ,about exploring , about growing up without school, about homeschooling, about how children learn, about interest driven learning, about learning is personal, about self-directed learners, about self-empowerment, about self-knowledge, about self-sufficiency, about unschooling, more by:
now was the time for him to conform to the rule-driven structure of a formalized education in order to meet his goals, right?
if we look around at  the imperfect world we live in and all the pressures of the society we live in,  we really can’t be that surprised, can we?
after about a year in the learning curve, peter decided he had to "bite the bullet" and complete university in order to effect real change from a different angle.
pearl buck, an american writer, daughter of missionary parents in china,  who was taught by her mother and a chinese tutor.
the  “reciprocity guilt” bothered me at first, but eased as i saw the  effects of standing my ground, watching the material tide ebb.
most schooled children blindly enter college because it is what is expected of them.
can one find happiness and independence using the more organic path to learning?
now, at the age of 35, i have taught myself many things, such as how to make a website, how to write for magazines, how to raise kids, and how to be happy.
laureen is a writer, a professional editor, a scuba instructor, a beginning sailor, a traveller, and an obsessive researcher who's chiefly focused on, and delighted with, her husband jason and her sons rowan and kestrel.
i never said one word of  french in my life before that time.
they appreciate that the holiday season no longer brings stress and strain to our home, right through to the gift aftermath and emotional letdown.
so, i’m getting my financial house in order.
no one blog, not even this lwos blog, can possibly  represent the opinions and lives of all who live life without school.
what can we do if our children are passive learners and don't give us many clues?
in 2005, we moved from rochester, ny to charlottesville, va,  and i had assumed that they would like the montessori school here as well.
thus, we determined that certain expenses were not rights of being a child in our family, but that children were responsible for them.
eric was at a  crossroads for his learning path.
just as important is my desire to model  “the entrepreneurial mind” for my children, which will serve them  well no matter where their future endeavors will take them.
things that have meaning for them, and make sense for what works for their brains and spirits.
the ocean and animals are deep-seated interests of my daughter jacinta.
as i contemplated what i could borrow from this scenario, i thought about what an enriching experience travel is.
this is something homeschoolers can do to help their kids who experience later readiness levels; teach them the same things in a different way.
december 08, 2006 in about childhood, about being a mom, about choice,  about creating a life, about defining success, about designing a life, about  enjoying life, about family culture, about homeschooling & finances, about  learning together, about learning values, about lifestyle, about prepared for  citizenship, about prepared to be a citizen, about psychological well-being,  about self-empowerment, about self-knowledge, about self-sufficiency, about  unschooling, about values, about why we homeschool | permalink | comments (1) |  trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, homeschooling, the  holidays, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us house of tomorrow
if we were lucky enough to have  financially astute parents, then maybe we got that knowledge passed to us, but  the vast majority of us didn’t.
self-directed learning is very different from a traditional model of learning that has teachers and other adults deciding what will be learned, when it will be learned, how it will be learned, and whether it was learned.
that's why i don't stress about them learning or their future.
while andrew johnson had to work out of sheer necessity, our kids have had life pretty easy, but are required to to work to do and have some of the things their peers have had handed to them.
his home was full of books, his parents spent time with him, and most of his youth was spent in the company of great minds.
most schooled children blindly enter college because it is  what is expected of them.
i long since backed off on buying things for my children without their explicit request.
no one drops by issues offorbes ormoney or the wall street journal the way they hand  over workbooks and readers.
she loves living and learning with her two daughters, who are turning out well despite being raised far from the turbid waters of the mainstream.
solution: establish expenses that your kids must cover.
they played captain smollett and mrs. hawkins, respectively, in homeschool theatre troupe’s recent rendition of “treasure island .”
she also serves as the editor of thecalifornia homeschooler magazine, a bi-monthly publication for the homeschool association of california.
nothing i say here do i consider "the truth".
what i'm understanding is that i don't get to define or own any of my children's successes or failures.
we learned how new mexico became a state and jacinta sewed herself clothes just like josefina's.
also, i will confess, i am  personally motivated by my love of free markets and capitalism.
how, why and where did  her breeds “evolve?”
when i was a teenager in the 1980s, i watched as the technology developed rapidly.
to my surprise, we came out a bit ahead, financially,  because i was able to keep up with much of my work while saving on the cost of  the school.
the  subjects that make sense.
who knows what new areas of technology or study or science or religion or what will be available?
we  were told by the dog and cat rescue organization that we adopted her from that
i thought at the time that he was wrong.
there’s  definitely a gap between the financial education and security i want my kids to  have, and the levels of both of those things i currently possess.
educational philosophy imperfect homeschooling
to sum up, key factors to developing successful self-directed learners may  include some of the following: ·         interaction with adults ·         focused attention from  parents, and/or siblings/tutors/mentors ·         apprenticeships ·         access to good books and a  love of reading ·         writing;  keeping a  journal, creative writing, record-keeping ·         learning at their own pace ·         understanding the  contribution of all cultures ·         immersion learning or  learning from life and things around them ·         interest-based learning i like what lisa rivero,  a writer, home school parent, and   gifted education and homeschooling advocate wrote  "self-directed
my children, now 16 and 13, have repeatedly expressed pleasure at our  having opted out of perpetuating the cycle of insatiable material gluttony that  defines the holiday season for numerous americans.
;-) self-directed learners don't have to be dropped into a chasm of parental indifference or disinterest; on the contrary, it's really just a paradigm shift from parent-directed to parent-supported education.
that is why i kept studying it for so many years.
madison and ella are exposed in an immediate way to how i interact with clients, and they see how hard i work to create value in a few different marketplaces.
it emphasizes trust in  the universe that things happen the way they do because that's how things are  meant to be.
and that each bit of  knowledge i gain is one step closer to closing the gap.
you may house their bodies but not their souls, for their souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your dreams.”
by  spending time working one-on-one with your child, getting to know the way your  child learns so you can make their learning program fit, and planning learning  experiences to fit your child, you can give them that extra boost that they  need to excel.
we can also intentionally plan projects  and learning experiences to build on a known interest.
during those early years, i spent a lot of time and money buying every imaginable educational tool to support my daughters’ vague leanings.
cindy has a passion for learning about and celebrating the diverse learning styles within her home, and moderates two yahoo group lists to support other families with similar children.
the sons of a friend displayed early and avid interest in baseball.
i worry less, and  trust that my kids will learn what they need to in order to attain their goals.
like a friend once noted about her family’s celebration, we “could not see the christmas tree for the trash around it.”
that was right at the time i was establishing axton enterprises, so i was able to design my business from the very start to accommodate my being involved with my kids.
you can’t nclb it, and if you tried, you would basically destroy it.
the fact that i  loved my work meant that i did not want to give it up completely in order to  educate the kids; fortunately, today’s technology makes that unnecessary.
to peek in on her day to day lifestyle, you can check out her blog,apple stars.
and, if we teach our children how to learn, they will naturally gravitate towards the things that they “get” and enjoy, which i think is also an important skill – knowing what our purpose is by understanding who we are, what we like, and what we’re good at.
;-)  self-directed learners  don't have to be dropped into a chasm of parental indifference or disinterest;  on the contrary, it's really just a paradigm shift from parent-directed to  parent-supported education.
rather than focus on what they can't do or haven't learned, figure out how to help them use the skills they have now, and once they've developed some self-confidence, you can build on that.
we can also intentionally plan projects and learning experiences to build on a known interest.
fortunately, much of what i have done for the past 14 years has been teaching (training adults), and i seem to be inclined this way.
technorati tags: alternative education, education, homeschooling,  homeschooling and religion, unschooling, zen buddhism digg this | save to del.icio.us november 17, 2006 work and homeschooling~guest author
he agreed to it if i would assure him that we  would cover those objectives.
we  learned how new mexico became a state and jacinta sewed herself clothes just  like josefina's.
his explanation of the phenomenon: how could i raise a child responsibly when i was still recovering from my  own troubled childhood?
it was simply a journey they needed to take in order to make a mindful decision about what path to take to reach their goals.
so even before the girls were born, i designed my businesses to be run from home so that i could be the one to educate them.
and  likewise, homeschooling parents are overjoyed when their child gets to work of  their own volition.
a teachable moment is when life and person meet with the desire to know.
while i personally don’t know  any homeschooled kids who have turned out so terribly bad, it stands to reason  that with homeschooling families being a microcosm of our society in general,  and individuals having free will, some homeschooled adults will choose things  that go totally against the way they were raised.
i don't  think peter or eric think about it in that manner.
the “reciprocity guilt” bothered me at first, but eased as i saw the effects of standing my ground, watching the material tide ebb.
and even if it were possible, and there was a formula we could follow, do we want to?
i was able to get online teachers' guides at pbs.org/masterpiece.
he just didn't let anyone tell him that he had to be young, prepared or even smart to do it.
i understood how it worked because it made sense to me.
we do the  best we can in an imperfect world, to raise them with the values we cherish,
you can find her ataut-home-fam, which supports families homeschooling their children with autism, or athomeschoolingcreatively , which supports families homeschooling children with a right-brained, visual-spatial, creative learning style.
he was an avid reader, though, sometimes walking miles to borrow a book, and reading by candle-light or firelight.
it happens all the time.
but  there was only one school in the city that went past preschool, and madison was  already in first grade.
it had rigidity without rigor,  whereas i was looking for rigor without rigidity.
my husband is a mathematician, and  although technically we could live on his salary, we wouldn't be able to save  much for retirement if i didn't also work.
john dewey, a renowned educational philosopher and proponent of the modern  public education movement believed in the power of what he called, “ teachable moments."
pearl buck, an american writer, daughter of missionary parents in china, who was taught by her mother and a chinese tutor.
eric is showing me that he will need time to figure out what he wants to do and how he wants to do it.
or she is currently on.
if they were in school this  past month of november 2006, they would have been instructed in some of the  following as determined by the school system and would have been expected to  learn it this november 2006.“objectives are placed in the quarter in  which mastery should be expected.”
shay seaborne  is an edgewalker, known to leap empty-handed into the  void.
that way, no matter where their inner voice guides them, they will be able to travel as far as they want to go.
eric's future may or may not include university matriculation, but i do know whatever he chooses will have been done consciously and with his eyes wide open.
answer  they show passive learners!!!
both of my children are avid readers and writers, keeping daily journals, corresponding with several pen pals, creating mock movie trailers in powerpoint, editing my writing, and making regular requests to go to the library for yet more books.
he is not an exception.
this is just a story of how i put zen buddhism and education together in our family's life.
we have these cringes built-in about finance, yet the majority of us  received little to no financial education.
they know that i view their education as the most important of  my three jobs, but they also see how much it means to me to be able to do my  own work.
won't each of us on our individual journeys have what we might consider successes?
he didn't learn to read until his wife taught him at the age of 18.
in a  political-economic system such as we have in the united states, it is possible  to create one's own opportunity; a person never need be constrained by someone  else's vision of one's professional life.
and then, he had to start being honest with himself about how unhappy he was jumping through these random hoops created in college coursework.
we are learning together and with friends, family and just folks we meet at the library, the pet store, the grocery store and so on, and then there are our fellow students in dog training class.
i release my judgments and my ownership while i continue to support and counsel eric on his journey through life to joy.
by that time, he  had begun to see things a little differently.
eric is showing me that he will need time to figure out what he wants to do  and how he wants to do it.
isn't life a journey  made up of many processes that accumulate into life lessons and  experiences?
“and the skylark sings with me ,” which includes stories about his children’s amazing interests  and their ingenuity and drive in following them (building a huge telescope!
so, i  don't focus on the "what" that my children study and learn.
but remember, although we can try to duplicate some of the common threads of the lives of famous homeschoolers, the most important lesson we can impart to our children is that it's important that they know who they are and develop who they are.
we are testing out behavior modification theory and taking  note of dog and people psychology.
andrew johnson was poor; his family couldn't afford schooling and he never had a day's schooling in his life.
we can model lifelong learning as we research homeschooling, educational methods, and things that intrigue us or our children.
it's just my interpretation.
i called it the "square peg in a round hole" syndrome.
even kids with some identified learning disabilities have been found to thrive in a homeschooling environment.
in recent years, jacinta has worked as a volunteer in the multi-cultural preschool at heritage camp, allowing her to learn about many cultures other than her own.
i recall one very young boy bringing aduplo bricks board to his mother, on which he had placed bricks to make two squares abutting each other.
if we look around at the imperfect world we live in and all the pressures of the society we live in, we really can’t be that surprised, can we?
they know that i view their education as the most important of my three jobs, but they also see how much it means to me to be able to do my own work.
we do the best we can in an imperfect world, to raise them with the values we cherish, and then they make their gradual way out into the world to make their own choices.
there’s definitely a gap between the financial education and security i want my kids to have, and the levels of both of those things i currently possess.
this inspired them early on to figure out ways to earn their own money.
not because i studied it for 7 years.
let's learn about some more famous women who were homeschooled and determine what we can learn from their experiences.
to peek in on her day to day  lifestyle, you can check out her blog,apple stars.
i think it’s a fallacy for parents (homeschooling or not) to take credit for our adult children’s successes or failures.
i worked out of the home, even before it became popular to do so.
even if you can't travel abroad, there are enough places right within driving distance of most of our homes, to keep us all busy for a few years.
i  recall one very young boy bringing aduplo bricks board to his mother, on which  he had placed bricks to make two squares abutting each other.
"you may give them your love but not your thoughts, for they have  their own thoughts.
you can read more from her about  education and homeschooling onher website.
we are living those teachable moments by living our lives and learning as  we go.
whatbreeds is  she and what might that mean?
the journal of unschooling & alternative learning the meaning of education the right to an education the six lesson school teacher the unauthorised dad's handbook (on unschooling)
have you heard the term equivalent education?
often, things that we do, such as visits to museums or historical sites, will begin a new phase in our child's learning experience.
and how to be in this world.
my brain and language have always been good companions.
as a first step toward a more satisfying holiday season, i purchased copies of  "unplug the christmas machine" and "new traditions," books  that helped my family define how we do want to celebrate.
they enjoy  the learning.
shay’s homeschool blog is called, “anecdotal evidence,” and her web site is synergyfield.com.
your nclb learning standards?
i was  so desperate for them to have something with which to identify that i might  have even breathed a sigh of relief had they chosen baseball.
they’re too little now to really understand what’s involved here,
our hearts rejoice when they choose wisely and when life is good to them (sometimes as a direct result of their choices but sometimes no thanks to them) and we grieve and yearn over them when they don’t choose wisely, or when life knocks them down again and again.
i long since backed off on buying things  for my children without their explicit request.
i have  always determined that my children would have the best education possible so  that they will, in turn, be able to find their own dream jobs someday.
it's the rides that are calling to him!
but having four  children (three grown and one sixteen), i can affirm that they aren’t  blank slates when they are born.
it's amazing how much more readily kids will learn when they are interested in the subject, as opposed to learning the same topic when it's our idea.
so long as they are studying something, i know they will succeed.
we live our lives without school.
and reaching adulthood is not a  ticket to stagnation.
it emphasizes trust in the universe that things happen the way they do because that's how things are meant to be.
adapting to our circumstance is also an important element.
i began lobbying my family to turn down the holiday volume about eight years ago, when the number of grandchildren and gifts given had turned christmas eve at my father’s house into an hours-long materialistic feeding frenzy.
they can disregard our  teachings totally some day.
this past november 2006, my children were (and still are) learning about dogs because we just brought our new dog, sophie, home to be in our family.
october 30, 2006 in about autodidactic, about choice, about creating a life ,about defining success, about experimenting, about homeschooling, about interest driven learning, about learning together, about self-directed learners, about self-empowerment, about self-knowledge, about self-sufficiency, about success, about why we homeschool, more by: marsha | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, homeschooling, homeschooling presidents, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us« previous | next » the wave of the future is not the conquest of the world by a single dogmatic creed but the liberation of the diverse energies of free nations and free men.~john f. kennedy managing editor:
one of several things will result:  a  small percentage will discover they love it and find what they really want to  do with their life; the greater majority will either continue to pursue what is  expected of them and later discover they hate their life or they will flit  through their college experience and land in something they may or may not  like.
december 11, 2006 in about autodidactic, about creating a life, about  defining success, about embracing life, about enjoying life, about experimenting ,about exploring , about growing up without school, about homeschooling, about  how children learn, about interest driven learning, about learning is personal,  about self-directed learners, about self-empowerment, about self-knowledge,  about self-sufficiency, about unschooling, more by:
real-life parenting does not emerge solely from the parent's conscious  intentions; it involves the whole person — mind, body, emotions and  spirit — as well as the social and cultural context in which it takes  place.
we noted that the  number one thing that makes the season special for us is spending time with  loved ones.
do you know how excited my children are?
my uncle told me when i was pregnant with #1 that children aren’t blank slates that we can write on and have them turn out like we want them to.
answer they show passive learners!!!
we are not planning or performing to a  set boxed “make it happen this way, today” curriculum.
we are taking a dog  training course.
the learning itself isworth it because it is relevant,  wanted and needed.
neither does the homeschooling  community.
no matter what specific facts or skills  we teach them, so long as they have the ability and confidence to learn, they  are prepared for any path they choose.
from our past american girl excursion to our more recent magic tree house adventures (we plunder the library for myths and legends, stories, poetry, cooking and craft books, and informational books and dive into the culture and time) to visits to local living museums and working historical farms in character (my children like to dress up and participate) to travels from the beginning of time (my children are into early human and the evolution of humans and animals big time) to making history today by voting, meeting the governor of our state and making the world a better place today as we see it (my children are into protecting animals and making sure they do not go extinct), we are “covering” and making history.
often, things that we  do, such as visits to museums or historical sites, will begin a new phase in  our child's learning experience.
but ignore pleas to underwrite the next ski trip.
i wanted to have financial  independence just as a matter of principle.
while we certainly are prepared to spend a certain amount of time with our children, helping them with their learning activities, we are thrilled when the kids take off and run with their studies because they want to learn more, because they are excited about the project,or the topic at hand.
how do you handle homeschooling & finances?
the subjects that they are good at.
“oh, i see you made the number eight,” the mom said to her son, “that’s cal ripkin’s number.”
sometimes i suggest that my kids  begin to read a book, just to see if they like it.
she has served on the planning  committee for her local homeschool cooperative, taught creative writing, edited  the newsletter, and been a member of the hub (homeschoolers united building)
but they will be *something*.
the msn encarta dictionary defines a teachable moment  as "a time at which a person, especially a child, is likely to be  particularly disposed to learn something or particularly responsive to being  taught or made aware of something."
while pointing out that many kids aren't ready for intense academic instruction at an early age, he also suggests that children are ripe for learning at any age.
while the public schools are preparing children for nclb testing by teaching to pre-determined learning objectives and benchmarking progress at pre-set intervals with carefully calculated pacing guides (did i get that right?), we are…..not.
too many children have  the mistaken impression that we only learn to get a certain grade or for a  certain class.
a second look at compulsory education education revolution happily unscathed: a life without school hem takes a closer look home education mag archives homeschooled & proud: a teens tale (life without school) homeschooling is viable how the public school system crushes souls
when  they were babies, i had a business-hours nanny watch them there with me in the  house.
did you know that 1/3 of our presidents were homeschooled?
even  though at the time i did not consider the possibility of a career in business,  i thought i could somehow use the developing technology to design a career that  would give me the best work-life balance possible.
bad finances and lack of financial knowledge create a level of underlying tension that i believe gets in the way of both good modeling and good parenting.
i wish i could tell you that our trip  to knott's is inspired by my son's love of california history, but i'm afraid
sometimes we learn things that make us realize we could have done something differently in the past, but it’s too late to relive our lives.
but having four children (three grown and one sixteen), i can affirm that they aren’t blank slates when they are born.
how are you sure your children are learning enough; what about  holes in your child's education?
with his earnings, at 18 he fulfilled an  adolescent goal of living in japan with a host family for two months.
therefore, eric set his sites on preparing himself for serving a  two year mission for our church.
people pounce on unschoolers and homeschoolers  about teaching reading, writing, math, and science, but in terms of being  prepared to lead a comfortable life, finance education is probably one of the  most important topics to cover.
no matter where their future endeavors will take them.
another year, we explored the traditions of her birth country and had a korean birthday party.
and likewise, homeschooling parents are overjoyed when their child gets to work of their own volition.
on “black friday,” the day after thanksgiving, i participated in buy nothing day, which has become my tradition.
these changes were initially not well received among the extended family, but after a few years, the aunts, uncles, and grandparents stopped insisting on giving my children pound puppies—or whatever was “in”—regardless of my daughters’ interests.
i received a packet  that contained learning objectives already defined for her for the next five  years of her life.
this is a wonderful  healing thing to do no matter what age our kids . . .
she is the author ofdeschooling gently: a step by step guide to fearless homeschooling.
the gap between parenting theory and practice is filled with  "stuff": each parent's unique collection of fears, attachments,  emotional wounds, unmet needs and obsolete strategies — plus external,  sociocultural pressures — that impede our efforts to do what we believe  is best.
by marsha recently there was a discussion on an e-list i subscribe to about why homeschooled kids don’t always turn out “perfect”.
and it won't matter whether they had been  "prepared" as children for that topic.
a freelance writer, marsha serves as a homeschool resource for her local library and has written articles forhome education magazine and a column for home educator's family times.
a freelance writer, marsha serves as a homeschool resource for her local library and has written articles forhome education magazine and a column forhome educator's family times.
scott noelle, one of my favorite parenting gurus, coined the phrase  "the healing gap".
gift giving did not disappear, but we downplay the focus on material  things.
january 04, 2007 in about authority , about autodidactic, about choice, about creating a life, about curiosity, about defining success, about educational neglect, about embracing life, about enjoying life, about experimenting, about exploring , about family culture, about growing up without school, about homeschooling, about how children learn, about interest driven learning, about learning is personal, about learning together, about natural learning, about passion & purpose, about self-directed learners, about self-empowerment, about self-knowledge, about self-sufficiency, about success, about unschooling, more by: robin | permalink | comments (4) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, formal education, homeschooling, informal education, john dewey, nclb, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us by cindy
why teach a child that her self worth is wrapped up in performance at all, and especially to faulty and invalid measures of real learning?
but there was only one school in the city that went past preschool, and madison was already in first grade.
many, many people are beginning to homeschool these days to provide their children with a personalized education that will help them to become happy, motivated, excited learners.
she is german shepherd mix, part lab.
november 17, 2006 in about creating a life, about defining success, about  homeschooling, about homeschooling & finances, about learning responsibility ,about lifestyle, about making a living, about parenting without school, about  self-directed learners, about self-empowerment, about self-knowledge, about  self-sufficiency, by: guest author | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, finances, homeschooling, homeschooling and finances, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us november 14, 2006 by laureen money.
shay filed  her first notice of intent to homeschool in virginia in 1995.
this last time he turned to architecture,  and he's really good at it - despite being a car repairman until he was in his  40's.
i was determined to have the time and flexibility to make sure my future children would have the visibility and guidance from me that i had lacked from my own parents.
therefore, i am making the conscious choice to back off, to allow them  to just be who they are.
her book,the complete idiot's guide to homeschooling, was  published in february 2001, and she has spoken at homeschool conferences and  curriculum fairs in texas, california, and michigan.
is creating your own path viable?
hopefully, when i do that, the world is a better place - no matter what name i give it.
while working through my own finance baggage, i realized that scott's gap  exists every bit as much for money as it does for parenting.
and, whatever they end up doing, it probably hasn't been invented yet.
and if that's the case,  they will pick it up fast.
we also  like doing a few simple and meaningful things together, like baking one or two  kinds of heirloom cookies to give to friends and neighbors, taking walks to see  the lights at night, and decorating simply, with candles, evergreen branches,  and a small tree.
the older girl has decided that—despite her teenager’s  inclination to reject any resemblance to her mother—she likes sailing,  and she is currently reading her way through the horatio hornblower novels.
nobody “prepared” me to learn foreign language.
...words that strike guilt, inadequacy, and fear, into the hearts of most  of us.
playing the violin to earn money to buy another violin!
and likewise, when our kids (adults, but yes, still our kids, in our  hearts) choose horribly and end up in the ditch and either don’t choose  to or find themselves unable to crawl back out again, we really shouldn’t  beat ourselves up for it.
indeed, one of the best things about unplugging the holidays is being emancipated from standing in the department store’s return line on december 26th.
james monroe • franklin delano roosevelt • theodore roosevelt • zachary taylor •
developing a love of learning in your child is a gift beyond compare, one that will continue to reap benefits as your child pursues higher education, and a career.
this is a wonderful healing thing to do no matter what age our kids . . .
did your child learn to read differently?
bad finances  and lack of financial knowledge create a level of underlying tension that i  believe gets in the way of both good modeling and good parenting.
developing a love of learning in your child is a  gift beyond compare, one that will continue to reap benefits as your child  pursues higher education, and
often, when we travel, we either listen to books on tape, or i read out loud to everyone from books or magazines like reader's digest, newsweek, time, or "your old boat". .
she  holds forth her opinions on that in her blog,the elemental mom.
in other words, it's easy to change your mind, but implementing a change  in your whole self is far more difficult, especially when going against the  grain of society and culture.
and, he  hasn't been back since (being 16 years old at the time), and he's approaching  20 years old.
i pondered on what key factors to bring into our learning experience.
i relished the feel of sun and breeze, knowing it will not be long before winter's glum visage stares us down for seemingly endless months.
if they aren't writers, perhaps they are talkers and can dictate their thoughts and impressions to you or a tape player, or draw pictures which you can help them caption until the time comes that they can do it for themselves.
when i was a teenager in the 1980s, i watched as the technology  developed rapidly.
and you can email her at tammy.takahashi @ gmail(dot)com.
how many of  us can really, deeply relax into being present in the moment, when  there’s money stress of some kind hanging over our heads?
my job is to trust the process  while stretching the thoughts and reactions
her book,the complete idiot's guide to homeschooling, was published in february 2001, and she has spoken at homeschool conferences and curriculum fairs in texas, california, and michigan.
january 13, 2007 in about being a dad, about being a mom, about defining success, about family culture, about growing up without school, about homeschooling, about learning together, about learning values, about parenting without school, about success, about unschooling, more by: marsha | permalink | comments (3) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, homeschooling, imperfect homeschooling, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us by robin
stepping back from the holiday feeding frenzy is one of the most subversive actions a family can take.
and that shift can often make a world of  difference in the child's attitude toward learning.
when i graduated  high school, i still couldn't keep a conversation going in the language.
that can be following a parent's  dreams or expectations, reaching for society's golden ticket of money or fame  or prestige, or taking the easiest path that presents itself.
i read with great interest stories of homeschooled or self-taught people,  trying to find clues that would help me guide my children in a way that would  result in them becoming self-directed.
many of my friends, as adults, have either changed their careers, or  learned new things very well to get a job, or just for their own interest.
also, i will confess, i am personally motivated by my love of free markets and capitalism.
;-) i realized later that perhaps my reading, note-taking, conversation, and the resulting free-lance articles, were as valuable in developing a love of learning in my children as anything i learned during my research.
one way is to help your child become an independent learner instead of a passive learner.
however, though deprived of books and schooling, he frequented a tailor shop where public spirited people often came to the tailor shop where he worked to read to the tailors.
people pounce on unschoolers and homeschoolers about teaching reading, writing, math, and science, but in terms of being prepared to lead a comfortable life, finance education is probably one of the most important topics to cover.
so, no matter what we do, we're living life.
can one find happiness and  independence using the more organic path to learning?
so long  as they are studying something, i know they will succeed.
caitlín was the only 3-year-old in her playgroup who had her own toolbox  with real tools, an extra large set ofcuisenaire rods, or a chess set.
however, i can't count the times our peers have asked us, "what's your secret to growing such hard-working kids?"
it is for each of us to own our individual journeys and everything in it that develops who we are through living and learning.
i had thought, at  the time, that i would probably be a technical writer, but i always had the  mind-set of leaving my options open, of always looking around to see where i  could best create value.
a teachable moment is when life and  person meet with the desire to know.
we gave it a good try, but found it a grim, somewhat  anti-intellectual place, with lots of rules.
december 08, 2006 in  about accountability , about childhood, about  autodidactic, about being a mom, about confidence, about creating a life, about  defining success, about designing a life, about embracing life, about enjoying  life, about exploring , about family culture, about feeling safe, about growing  up without school, about how children learn, about interest driven learning,  about learning is personal, about learning responsibility, about learning  together, about lifestyle, about making meaning, about passion & purpose,  about perceptions, about psychological well-being, about responsibility to  children, about responsibility to society, about self-empowerment, about  self-knowledge, about unschooling, about why we homeschool, more by: shay |  permalink | comments (2) | trackback (1)
i read the book and found it fascinating.
she didn't start formal schooling until the age of 17.
i rememberpeter  kowalke, the "homeschooler in college" columnist for home education  magazine going through a similar discovery process.
language made  sense to me.
even become specialists.
while i personally don’t know any homeschooled kids who have turned out so terribly bad, it stands to reason that with homeschooling families being a microcosm of our society in general, and individuals having free will, some homeschooled adults will choose things that go totally against the way they were raised.
whether they do some odd jobs for neighbors and acquaintances, or start their own business, the lessons they will learn will be indelible.
the learning itself isworth it because it is relevant, wanted and needed.
plus, i saved myself over an hour per day of driving them to and  from school, so that gave me time back.
these moments  of satisfaction are a hallmark of having successfully “unplugged”  the “christmas machine.”
why go to all that trouble to make a child fit a curriculum, a set of standards defined by targeted (thus limited) detailed learning objectives when the end result is a label, "good" or "bad"?
that's why our trip to ca has included visits to the ocean, sea world, and will include trips to the san diego zoo and wild animal park.
you may house their bodies but not their souls, for their  souls dwell in the house of tomorrow, which you cannot visit, not even in your  dreams.”
marsha | permalink |  comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, homeschooling,  self-directed learners, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us december 08, 2006 refusing to feed the frenzy by shay
for  some, life without school begins as a conscientious choice that is  whole-heartedly embraced.
the thing that stood out to me the most  about pearl buck was her immersion in the chinese culture, her interaction with  her chinese nanny, and other household staff, which led her to an understanding  and respect of their culture which shines through in her writings.
we are  not anxiously marking our children’s “progress” with  incremental steps that are supposed to lead to a prescribed learning jackpot  called “success.”
i was so desperate for them to have something with which to identify that i might have even breathed a sigh of relief had they chosen baseball.
as zen buddhist, one of my goals  is to reduce samsara, and if i can’t do that, to at least avoid creating  samsara in others.
i don't think that learning, or religion, can prepare us for life.
we are not anxiously marking our children’s “progress” with incremental steps that are supposed to lead to a prescribed learning jackpot called “success.”
previous | random alt-webring.com
by that time, he had begun to see things a little differently.
there is no "preparation" for life.
we  are having an on-going learning conversation with each other and these people  who are a part of our lives.
i didn't know at the time that this is the essence of  the entrepreneur.
december 08, 2006 in about accountability , about childhood, about autodidactic, about being a mom, about confidence, about creating a life, about defining success, about designing a life, about embracing life, about enjoying life, about exploring , about family culture, about feeling safe, about growing up without school, about how children learn, about interest driven learning, about learning is personal, about learning responsibility, about learning together, about lifestyle, about making meaning, about passion & purpose, about perceptions, about psychological well-being, about responsibility to children, about responsibility to society, about self-empowerment, about self-knowledge, about unschooling, about why we homeschool, more by: shay | permalink | comments (2) | trackback (1) technorati tags: alternative education, education, homeschooling, self-directed learning, unschooling digg
we can plant seeds by making suggestions, planning field trips, or reading together from books that we feel will spark an interest.
now, at 16 and 13 years of age, they produce a biweekly e-zine, called “the talisman,” that includes their book and movie reviews, plus poems, how-to’s, polls, quotes, and more.
the subjects that make sense.
perspectives "darker side" applicable only to homeschooling?
trekking into the wilderness to study wild wolves!), i was  anxious for my own children to displaysome kind of steady interest.
my girls have clear interests now, but being teens, they also demand a  great deal of privacy.
madison and ella are exposed in an  immediate way to how i interact with clients, and they see how hard i work to  create value in a few different marketplaces.
and pay for their own insurance and license.
students can be self-directed in several ways and in  different degrees.
but i knew how to learn.
many, many people are beginning to homeschool these  days to provide their children with a personalized education that will help  them to become happy, motivated, excited learners.
a friend of mine taped it for me; maybe it’s  available otherwise by now.
they know how to learn.
i feel that we aren't doing kids any favor when we provide everything for them and don't teach them responsibility.
release my judgments and my ownership while i continue to support and counsel  eric on his journey through life to joy.
the msn encarta dictionary defines a teachable moment as "a time at which a person, especially a child, is likely to be particularly disposed to learn something or particularly responsive to being taught or made aware of something."
i received a packet that contained learning objectives already defined for her for the next five years of her life.
however, much as we’d like to take credit for their success, it’s not really ours to own.
while i do have a general sense of what they are learning, and what they know, their educational journeys are largely hidden from me.
this | save to del.icio.us december 11, 2006 self-directed learners
language made sense to me.
why do you homeschool?
he didn't score as well with the traditional professor and the traditional grading expectations that simply reflected the hoops he was meant to jump through versus the learning that was accomplished.
he just didn't let anyone tell him that he had to  be young, prepared or even smart to do it.
even become  specialists.
what we want to do is develop a personalized program of life and learning that works for our children, our family, and what works for me won't necessarily work for you, what works for you might not work for your neighbor, but we can all learn from each other, while we find the right path for ourselves and our loved ones.
a friend of mine taped it for me; maybe it’s available otherwise by now.
his conclusion: well, until i'm ready to play by their rules, i'm not going to take college classes.
woodrow wilson president john quincy adams had little early schooling, but at the age of 11 accompanied his father to france and kept a journal, which later developed into one of the most famous of diaries.
and, if we teach our children how to learn, they will naturally gravitate  towards the things that they “get” and enjoy, which i think is also  an important skill – knowing what our purpose is by understanding who we  are, what we like, and what we’re good at.
isn't life a journey made up of many processes that accumulate into life lessons and experiences?
shay’s homeschool blog is  called, “anecdotal evidence,” and her web site is synergyfield.com.
the children find stocking stuffers and candy in their stockings, and a few gifts under our little tree.
in the afternoon, the kids either have additional activities outside the home, or they play while i continue to work.
they made it known that i am privileged to be on their  list of recipients of “the talisman,” howl in protest if i  come into the room while they are writing, and they shoo me away from their  theatre rehearsals, refusing to even let me hear their audition monologs.
what an incentive plan to drive safely and carefully to keep those insurance rates down!.
instead of wending my way through ravenous throngs and standing in  interminable lines that day, i enjoyed the lovely seventy-degree weather,  hanging laundry on the line, and going on an extra-long bicycle ride.
for others, it begins as a quest for second chances  and new opportunity....
from our past american girl excursion to our more recent magic tree house  adventures (we plunder the library for myths and legends, stories, poetry,  cooking and craft books, and informational books and dive into the culture and  time) to visits to local living  museums and working historical farms in  character (my children like to dress up and participate) to travels from the  beginning of time (my children are into early human and the evolution of humans  and animals big time) to making history today by voting, meeting the governor  of our state and making the world a better place today as we see it (my  children are into protecting animals and making sure they do not go extinct),  we are “covering” and making history.
it is my belief that he will end up choosing his own path versus letting the path choose for him.
my son would be in kindergarten this year if in a traditional school  setting, and my daughter would be in third grade.
i don't have expectations of what those things will be.
she has served on the planning committee for her local homeschool cooperative, taught creative writing, edited the newsletter, and been a member of the hub (homeschoolers united building) advisory committee.
for instance, we covered family outings and certain expenses to do with entertainment, but anything that fell beyond that realm was the child's responsibility.
and what about success and failure against which we often measure all of our actions?
it simply means learning the same things in a different way.
what is unschooling?
in recent years, jacinta has worked as a volunteer in the  multi-cultural preschool at heritage camp, allowing her to learn about many  cultures other than her own.
although at close to 20  his interest in college has become more peaked toward a japanese history major  with a leaning toward ucla because of a free martial arts program there, he  feels he needs one more significant life experience before committing to a life  path.
he actually started  attending a respected college, "proof" that unschooling works,  right?
i worry less, and trust that my kids will learn what they need to in order to attain their goals.
for me, this is why i'm so drawn to zen buddhism.
if you can impart a love and a zest for learning, you will have done your child an irreplaceable service.
by spending time working one-on-one with your child, getting to know the way your child learns so you can make their learning program fit, and planning learning experiences to fit your child, you can give them that extra boost that they need to excel.
this past november 2006, my children were (and still are) learning about  dogs because we just brought our new dog, sophie, home to be in our family.
because modeling is such a huge part of unschooling, i need to model fiscal  responsibility and financial empowerment, if that’s what i want them to  learn.
i backed out (another story) and convinced my husband for a trial year of homeschooling.
i studied spanish in school for seven years, growing up.
she also serves as the  editor of thecalifornia homeschooler magazine, a bi-monthly publication for the  homeschool association of california.
instead, we are serenely enjoying not mall hopping, not lining up with the unhappy multitudes, not being constantly barraged with the same music ad nauseum, not worrying about finding “just the right gift” for the person who already has more than enough,not worrying about how much to spend on whom,not wondering if the children’s concept of the reason for the season is a glut of new stuff,not worrying how we will find room for a flood of new belongings, not stressing over how to pay for it all, and notplanning to get up early the day after christmas to stand in line with packs of other people who are glumly returning the junk they didn't want or need.
therefore, eric set his sites on preparing himself for serving a two year mission for our church.
tammy takahashi lives and learns with her three children (10, 7 and 4) and  supportive husband in california.
a dog splurge does not make an education complete, and we were learning more than about sophie these past november days.
i learned how to learn through my studies of  language because it was something that clicked with me, and i studied it  because i wanted to.
she cooked all the food herself, including  biscochitos, tamales, and other treats.
during those early years, i spent a lot of time and money buying every  imaginable educational tool to support my daughters’ vague leanings.
i still remember how free i felt the first time i was able to stay home with my family instead of going through the cattle chute with other grumpy post-christmas reverse shoppers.
solution: advance them funds for overlooked essentials with a plan for repayment.
at 18, he added another part-time  job with more meaning (and money) and dropped the first one.
i worked out of the home, even  before it became popular to do so.
real-life parenting does not emerge solely from the parent's conscious intentions; it involves the whole person — mind, body, emotions and spirit — as well as the social and cultural context in which it takes place.
won't each of us on our individual journeys have  what we might consider successes?
i often leave books on the library shelf  or the coffee table in our living room.
hopefully, when i do that, the world is a better place - no  matter what name i give it.
the ocean and animals are deep-seated  interests of my daughter jacinta.
i  have found that these practices make things so much easier.
at last, i can allow each of them complete freedom in building her own “house of tomorrow.”
i ended my last post about my oldest son, eric's, first experience with formal education through a dual-enrollment community college program.
and then we beat ourselves up for being  illiterate.
the girls watched them raptly, declaring them “brilliant.”
that’s also part of the process of how i ended up in this life without school.
and, he hasn't been back since (being 16 years old at the time), and he's approaching 20 years old.
and then we beat ourselves up for being illiterate.
your email address: powered by feedblitz more...
but i understood how the language worked.
seeing freedom anew through her eyes heightened my commitment to participating fully in the system that makes so much achievement and wealth possible here in this country.
peter decided to drop out and see if he could uncollege and encourage others to explore the option.
all of this i did without any early childhood knowledge of language other than my mother tongue.
one thing they will have, which i never understood while growing up, is a sense that hard work--when it's something you love--is pleasurable, and constitutes a significant part of a fulfilled life.
so whatever my girls  choose to do some day, they will be entrepreneurs, at least in spirit.
we are not  creating detailed learning objectives that must be met, now or never.
how many of us can really, deeply relax into being present in the moment, when there’s money stress of some kind hanging over our heads?
because we have never pushed our children through the typical schooling line-up: preschool, elementary, junior high, high school, college, each child has had to figure out on an individual basis what and how and why they want to learn.
sometimes we learn things  that make us realize we could have done something differently in the past, but  it’s too late to relive our lives.
each of the children shown is sitting quietly at their desk, hands folded,  waiting for someone to tell them what to do, how to do it, when to do it, and  so on.
during this time, he began to investigate private fine arts colleges across the nation that might have majors in his area of current interest, what would be expected, and what the financial obligation would require.
fortunately, much of what i have done  for the past 14 years has been teaching (training adults), and i seem to be  inclined this way.
our kids know they have to purchase their own vehicle if they want one to drive.
one never knows what small act may plant  the seeds of a revolution.
some homeschoolers have children who have become very talented videographers.
so, i don't focus on the "what" that my children study and learn.
and then they make their gradual way out into the world to make their own  choices.
in light of another discussion recently where a homeschool mother was requesting tips because she was going to write a book to help families figure out the perfect way to homeschool, this discussion resonated with me.
they know and own their own “need to know,” and they feel directly empowered when they delve into that personal energy and learn in it.
that society's expectations for  this age at this stage in this generation face.
that feeling, over seven years ago, came from an awareness of what i now  call the healing gap, a phenomenon that arises when a person consciously seeks  a healthier path than the one
december 02, 2006 in about confidence, about creating a life, about  defining success, about embracing life, about enjoying life, about growing up  without school, about interest driven learning, about lifestyle, about  parenting without school, about self-directed learners, about self-empowerment,  about self-knowledge, about self-sufficiency, about spirituality, about  unschooling, more by: tammy, re: religion, self-directed learners | permalink |  comments (2) | trackback (0)
that was right at the time i was establishing  axton enterprises, so i was able to design my business from the very start to
•         john quincy adams
no one drops by issues offorbes ormoney or the wall street journal the way they hand over workbooks and readers.
when i was about 16, a friend remarked that the possibilities for careers were expanding so quickly that it was likely that what the two of us would end up doing probably hadn't been invented yet.
she learned to weave on a little loom, and had a mexican  themed birthday party.
they enjoy the learning.
my family's holiday activities are now low key, keeping our observances simple and meaningful.
zen buddhism emphasizes being open to the millions of possibilities.
most of these books, magazines, toys, manipulatives, games, and other resources have been disposed of—sold, given away, or donated tovahomeschoolers’ used resource sale—having never captured my children’s interest.
they’re too little now to really understand what’s involved here, but i found that if i give myself the same patience and encouragement with baby steps that i allow them, that i come along just fine.
rather than using a beginning reader, perhaps you can play games with magnetic letters on the fridge, make up a "word box", label items around the house, play memory games, identify letters and numbers on billboards and signs along the road, help you child make their own flash cards, or simply spend more time reading out loud to him or her.
i was determined to have the  time and flexibility to make sure my future children would have the visibility  and guidance from me that i had lacked from my own parents.
things that stretch their brain.
they come complete with their own little personalities.
they would be tested on these  objectives, pass or fail, and then they would move on and away to the next  predetermined set of objectives:third grade pacing guide.
at 17, eric took his first part-time job.
scott noelle, one of my favorite parenting gurus, coined the phrase "the healing gap".
nevertheless, i wanted my kids to have  interests.
now, at 16 and 13 years of age,  they produce a biweekly e-zine, called “the talisman,”  that includes their book and movie reviews, plus poems, how-to’s, polls,  quotes, and more.
he had begun to see the real live “learn as we go” learning and to value it.
while we expect the kids to share in normal weekly and daily maintenance as their privilege of being a member of our family, we do pay them for doing or helping with certain large unusual jobs of maintenance or repair around our house.
my job is to trust the process while stretching the thoughts and reactions
he had begun to see the real live  “learn as we go” learning and to value it.
you can also see this in our schools - kids are taught a lot of different  subjects.
i think about this a lot.
bettinaceleste cindy cyndie jena laureen linda marjorie marsha missy robin shay steph w. stephanie tammy homeschool empowerment webring home/join | list | next |
we also like doing a few simple and meaningful things together, like baking one or two kinds of heirloom cookies to give to friends and neighbors, taking walks to see the lights at night, and decorating simply, with candles, evergreen branches, and a small tree.
therefore, i am making the conscious choice to back off, to allow them to just be who they are.
sophie came into our lives and our lives are now about learning about sophie.
i'm not sure she had much education herself, but she did, according to all we read, have a wealth of love and caring for the children.
then, in the late 1990s, i became close friends with someone who had emigrated from cuba in 1992.
although at close to 20 his interest in college has become more peaked toward a japanese history major with a leaning toward ucla because of a free martial arts program there, he feels he needs one more significant life experience before committing to a life path.
now was the time for him to conform to  the rule-driven structure of a formalized education in order to meet his goals,  right?
i have found that these practices make things so much easier.
you may give them your love but not your thoughts, for they have their own thoughts.
we are researching how to care  for her and applying that information in real life.
accountabililty and the homeschooler easy out?:
she holds forth her opinions on that in her blog,the elemental mom.
i began lobbying my family to turn down the holiday volume about eight  years ago, when the number of grandchildren and gifts given had turned  christmas eve at my father’s house into an hours-long materialistic  feeding frenzy.
both of my children are avid readers and writers,  keeping daily journals, corresponding with several pen pals, creating mock  movie trailers in powerpoint, editing my writing, and making regular requests  to go to the library for yet more books.
yet no well-meaning relative quizzes our  children on the value of the dollar against the euro; they just ask goofy  questions about multiplication tables.
we might also donate some goodies to the animal shelter bake  sale, learn a new song, or go to a friend's sing-along.
while his ste-mother encouraged him and seemed to understand the value of education for abe, with his inquiring mind, she didn't have a lot of resources at her disposal.
i still  remember how free i felt the first time i was able to stay home with my family  instead of going through the cattle chute with other grumpy post-christmas  reverse shoppers.
tammy takahashi lives and learns with her three children (10, 7 and 4) and supportive husband in california.
it seems i am always learning of another famous person or meeting someone who was homeschooled; we can all learn much from what worked for them.
how do wecare for her?
what is life without school like?
learning is an educational philosophy that emphasizes the child's role as an  active learner.
and then, from mid-2003 to mid-2005, they attended a montessori  preschool in the mornings.
i figured i could do that!
she's a  lifelong californian, which lends a very distinctive spin to both her ideas and  her politics, and she's discovered, in her peregrinations, that the world is  far smaller yet far more fascinating than anyone gives it credit for being.
i would not want to have to fake interest in my children’s interests, and that would be the case with baseball, or most any team sport.
this november 2006 ended with the four of us sick, hanging out on the sofa and watching quite a bit of of tv (national geographic, the food network, and animal planet), learning quite a bit about dogs (we just found outsophie has giardia probably from drinking from the creek or from the soil?…how’s that?...what do we do?....yuck...), talking about white blood cells, making stats sheets on pro football teams, and learninghow to make chicken soup 3 different ways off of one chicken.
by tammy by far, the most important element of preparing our children for their  future is to teach them how to learn.
but i picked it up immediately, went on to get my ma in french, and taught at the university for 3 years.
we might also donate some goodies to the animal shelter bake sale, learn a new song, or go to a friend's sing-along.
what's your perspective?
that can be following a parent's dreams or expectations, reaching for society's golden ticket of money or fame or prestige, or taking the easiest path that presents itself.
fun and magic are crucial elements in the design of her life.
we have these cringes built-in about finance, yet the majority of us received little to no financial education.
i  relished the feel of sun and breeze, knowing it will not be long before  winter's glum visage stares us down for seemingly endless months.
the trainer that we are taking classes  from said lab mix, part rottweiler, and the mystery of "what is  sophie" is taking us to tons of information and on a real life learning  experience and a critical thinking extravaganza.
think about these once  in awhile, and watch your answers change.
sophie came into our lives and our lives are now about learning about  sophie.
these moments of satisfaction are a hallmark of having successfully “unplugged” the “christmas machine.”
and we really can't prepare for tomorrow.
she didn't start formal  schooling until the age of 17.
“just make sure you introduce some history (any history),” he said.
also scoring high was feeling relaxed in a calm atmosphere.
steph thank you featured authors for your contributions and guidance.
if they “proved”  that they are learning this stuff, they might be considered excellent,  motivated, average, above average, gifted, motivated, attentive, successful,  and so on.
how can you do that?   one way is to help your child  become an independent learner instead of a passive learner.
we are having an on-going learning conversation with each other and these people who are a part of our lives.
i backed out (another story) and convinced my husband for a  trial year of homeschooling.
probably even more important, i unconsciously modeled a love for reading and research, reading voraciously whenever i can find a moment, sometimes when i should be doing something else!
my children are personally invested in learning about this dog.
and if you can't take a two week or month-long vacation, don't despair.
the thing that stood out to me the most about pearl buck was her immersion in the chinese culture, her interaction with her chinese nanny, and other household staff, which led her to an understanding and respect of their culture which shines through in her writings.
many of my friends, as adults, have either changed their careers, or learned new things very well to get a job, or just for their own interest.
so, this past  february, i pulled them out mid-year and began homeschooling, as i had always  intended to do sometime.
fortunately, i do learn, eventually.
sometimes i suggest that my kids begin to read a book, just to see if they like it.
she home schools her two daughters, madison (7) and ella (5).
anyway, this is all my perspective.
so whatever my girls choose to do some day, they will be entrepreneurs, at least in spirit.
children are self-directed whenever they decide what they need or want to  learn,  set their own goals, identify and find resources for learning,  choose and use strategies for learning, or  evaluate their own  learning." as teachers, mentors, and homeschooling parents, we can encourage and  develop self-direction in children by including them in planning their learning  experiences,  having them choose materials they will use, and  understanding their learning style so we can support them along their learning  journey.
they come complete with their own little  personalities.
she also works part-time outside the home as an office manager for  both the family business and at a local church.
you can’t nclb it, and if you tried, you would basically  destroy it.
laureen is a writer, a professional editor, a scuba instructor, a beginning  sailor, a traveller, and an obsessive researcher who's chiefly focused on, and  delighted with, her husband jason and her sons rowan and kestrel.
after the girls viewed four borrowed tapes of thea&e “hornblower” series, my younger daughter insisted that i purchase the eight-dvd set with her money.
they would be tested on these objectives, pass or fail, and then they would move on and away to the next predetermined set of objectives:third grade pacing guide.
initially, he has not been willing to compromise the learning principles, environment, and support from which he has become accustomed through the unschooling lifestyle.
woodrow's parents spent time with him, and provided him with a rich learning environment and interaction with interesting people.
what about child abuse and neglect?what  is educational neglectand who is at risk?
in the  afternoon, the kids either have additional activities outside the home, or they  play while i continue to work.
i’m reading books  and websites, i’m tackling one major pain point a month: tax filing  system, insurance organization, creating a trust, establishing a money market  account, learning about the stock market.
plus, i saved myself over an hour per day of driving them to and from school, so that gave me time back.
shay seaborne is an edgewalker, known to leap empty-handed into the void.
i never said one word of french in my life before that time.
she cooked all the food herself, including biscochitos, tamales, and other treats.
by marsha recently there was a discussion on an e-list i subscribe to about why  homeschooled kids don’t always turn out “perfect”.
there is no way to pre-determine this kind of  learning.
learning, about learning is personal, about learning together, about natural  learning, about passion & purpose, about self-directed learners, about  self-empowerment, about self-knowledge, about self-sufficiency, about success,  about unschooling, more by: robin | permalink | comments (4) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, formal education,  homeschooling, informal education, john dewey, nclb, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us december 29, 2006 success or failure?
however, much as  we’d like to take credit for their success, it’s not really ours to  own.
how can we get to know what our kids are  interested in?
each blog  does, however, in some small way represent one life, one family, once voice,  one lifestyle out of many who choose to live life without school.
we'll be putting together scrapbooks of our trip when we get home.
it seemed the natural, normal thing.
very gradually, caitlín and laurel developed interests in history,  theatre, english literature, and the cinema.
how can we get to know what our kids are interested in?
and of course, the sociocultural pressures to behave badly  financially are all around us.
that is why i kept studying it  for so many years.
he actually started attending a respected college, "proof" that unschooling works, right?
and what about success and failure  against which we often measure all of our actions?
i decided  that this was the path for me.
accommodate my being involved with my kids.
if they did not pass the tests that supposedly prove that they are learning this stuff and that supposedly prove how much they are learning, they might be labeled failures, unsatisfactory, below average, learning disabled, unmotivated, careless, unsuccessful, and so on.
one of several things will result: a small percentage will discover they love it and find what they really want to do with their life; the greater majority will either continue to pursue what is expected of them and later discover they hate their life or they will flit through their college experience and land in something they may or may not like.
if they did not pass the tests that supposedly prove that they are learning  this stuff and that supposedly prove how much they are learning, they might be  labeled failures, unsatisfactory, below average, learning disabled,  unmotivated, careless, unsuccessful, and so on.
afterward, eric dabbled in costuming and other legitimate art pursuits.
do you know how much they want to learn about this dog named, sophie?
the satisfaction  of the "know" surpasses any "superior grade" in quality of  experience.
after about a year in the  learning curve, peter decided he had to "bite the bullet" and  complete university in order to effect real change from a different  angle.
that way, no matter where their  inner voice guides them, they will be able to travel as far as they want to go.
who determines what category each  falls?
the satisfaction of the "know" surpasses any "superior grade" in quality of experience.
the gap between parenting theory and practice is filled with "stuff": each parent's unique collection of fears, attachments, emotional wounds, unmet needs and obsolete strategies — plus external, sociocultural pressures — that impede our efforts to do what we believe is best.
living out our "teachable moments" gives us a direct connection to the learning that lives in life, our lives.
after learning from them for sixteen years, i have  finally dropped the idea that i need to examine and explain these girls, and  let go of the idea that i must hold them up as proof that i made the right  educational choices for them.
who knows what new areas of  technology or study or science or religion or what will be available?
to sum up, key factors to developing successful self-directed learners may include some of the following: · interaction with adults · focused attention from parents, and/or siblings/tutors/mentors · apprenticeships · real jobs · access to good books and a love of reading · writing; keeping a journal, creative writing, record-keeping · learning at their own pace · understanding the contribution of all cultures · immersion learning or learning from life and things around them · interest-based learning i like what lisa rivero, a writer, home school parent, and gifted education and homeschooling advocate wrote "self-directed learning is an educational philosophy that emphasizes the child's role as an active learner.
indeed, one of  the best things about unplugging the holidays is being emancipated from  standing in the department store’s return line on december 26th.
they are e-x-c-i-t-e-d!
subjects that , given the choice, they would have probably already been studying even if nobody had told them to.
but i picked it up immediately, went on to  get my ma in french, and taught at the university for 3 years.
now, at the age of 35, i have taught myself many things, such as how to  make a website, how to write for magazines, how to raise kids, and how to be  happy.
if they were in school this past month of november 2006, they would have been instructed in some of the following as determined by the school system and would have been expected to learn it this november 2006.“objectives are placed in the quarter in which mastery should be expected.”
too many children have the mistaken impression that we only learn to get a certain grade or for a certain class.
whether you are driving the coast road, exploring the mountains in search of birds and wildflowers, or checking out historical markers, encourage your children to record their impressions!
just as important is my desire to model “the entrepreneurial mind” for my children, which will serve them
we are creating our own learning objectives as we go.
like a friend once noted about her family’s celebration,  we “could not see the christmas tree for the trash around it.”
it gives us the joy and thrill that belongs to our own authentic experience and the power to be self-determined.
where does she come from?
playing the violin to earn money to buy  another violin!
on questions the simplest questions are the most profound.
we were told by the dog and cat rescue organization that we adopted her from that she is german shepherd mix, part lab.
i often leave books on the library shelf or the coffee table in our living room.
shay filed her first notice of intent to homeschool in virginia in 1995.
i'm sure there are other outcomes, but it appears that  statistically speaking, it is unlikely a person will find their love and  passion in traditional schooling practices, but instead, simply continue the  blind path they have always followed.
it is based on acceptance and  understanding.
instead, we are serenely enjoying not mall hopping, not lining up with the unhappy multitudes, not being constantly barraged with the same music ad nauseum, not worrying about finding “just the right gift” for the person who  already has more than enough,not worrying about how much to spend on  whom,not wondering if the children’s concept of the reason for  the season is a glut of new stuff,not worrying how we will find room  for a flood of new belongings, not stressing over how to pay for it all, and notplanning to get up early the day after christmas to stand in line with  packs of other people who are glumly returning the junk they didn't want or  need.
as zen buddhist, one of my goals is to reduce samsara, and if i can’t do that, to at least avoid creating samsara in others.
when we open gifts, we do it over a long  course, so we can take time to fully appreciate each one.
if the things we plan are enjoyable, interesting, and fun, the chance of our child wanting to learn more is increased.
whatever professional positions they hold, they will understand how to treat their jobs as an opportunity continually to create value.
bach questions for us what are ways you prepare your children to survive in our society  economically?
a career.   if you can impart a love  and a zest for learning, you will have done your child an irreplaceable  service.
hem support group news interview current question:what is success?
it was simply a  journey they needed to take in order to make a mindful decision about what path  to take to reach their goals.
let's start then, with these boys who grew up to be leaders of men.
, each  child has had to figure out on an individual basis what and how and why they  want to learn.
why does she behave as she does and how do we  train her (lots ofclassical/operant conditioning here and logical thinking in  that one)?
they didn’t have to be prodigies, mind you, just demonstrate that they  were, indeed, learning, and that they were, indeed, becoming themselves.
you can read more from her about education and homeschooling onher website.
things that have meaning  for them, and make sense for what works for their brains and spirits.
my girls have clear interests now, but being teens, they also demand a great deal of privacy.
the life without school community blog about us the life without school blog is an on-line publication and blogging  community.
at 18, he added another part-time job with more meaning (and money) and dropped the first one.
that may be true in some cases, but it’s been proven over and over and over to me that sometimes no matter how wonderfully kids are parented (and homeschooled) they don’t always turn out that well.
pbs put out a 90 minute film on may 13, 2002, telling  the extraordinary story of ms. conway's coming of age, from the windswept  australian outback to the stately halls of academia - a journey of  determination and courage.
even kids with some identified learning  disabilities have been found to thrive in a homeschooling environment.
there are no guarantees in life.
what does she need from us?
he didn't score as well with the traditional professor and the  traditional grading expectations that simply reflected the hoops he was meant  to jump through versus the learning that was accomplished.
since beginning this move toward sanity, we have seen our steps repeated by others, and now have a small circle of friends and family members who have also chosen to back away from a stressful, harried, and cheapened holiday season.
later he became an apprentice for that tailor shop, and impressed the other tailors with his eagerness to obtain an education.
but i don’t believe  that any more.
she also works part-time  outside the home as an office manager for both the family business and at a  local church.
when i am aware of a child having a particular interest, i will find as many ways to encourage continued research and growth in that area.
after the girls viewed four borrowed tapes of thea&e  “hornblower” series, my younger daughter insisted that i purchase  the eight-dvd set with her money.
when they were babies, i had a business-hours nanny watch them there with me in the house.
at first, my children and i were only able to identify what we did not like about the holiday madness, but we were not sure exactly what we wanted to keep.
eric sought  these part-time jobs because he wanted the benefit of pursuing diverse  interests during the other part of his available time that required the  necessity of financial backing.
about child abuse and neglect about choice about for the sake of the child about grades about growing up without school about high school about prepared to be a citizen about preschool rs: education for the sake of the child rs:
i love what i do professionally, and would want to continue even if it  didn't contribute much to our bottom line.
her book,the complete idiot's  guide to homeschooling, was published in february 2001, and she has  spoken at homeschool conferences and curriculum fairs in texas, california, and  michigan.
stepping back from the holiday feeding frenzy is one of the most  subversive actions a family can take.
my own dad changed careers two times.
we are, however, preparing our children for life,  and we are so very happy to be doing that without a formal education.
and that each bit of knowledge i gain is one step closer to closing the gap.
nobody “prepared” me to learn foreign  language.
he  had taken two courses with very different instructors and expectations for what  made up his end grade.
and that shift can often make a world of difference in the child's attitude toward learning.
my  own dad changed careers two times.
;-)  i realized later that perhaps my reading, note-taking,  conversation, and the resulting free-lance articles, were as valuable in  developing a love of learning in my children as anything i learned during my  research.
there is no way to pre-determine this kind of learning.
abe lincoln would walk miles to borrow or return a book, and we, too, can teach our children the value of books and learning.
in the mid-1990s, before i had kids, i saw that home  schooling was an increasingly popular alternative to public schools.
while this may be a somewhat important skill for kids to develop in a large classroom setting, truly gifted teachers do things that make kids want to be ready to learn when the teacher walks in the door.
november 14, 2006 in about defining success, about enjoying life, about homeschooling & finances, about learning responsibility, about learning together, about responsibility to children, about unschooling, more by: laureen | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alternative education, education, finances, homeschooling, homeschooling and finances, unschooling digg this | save to del.icio.us by marsha
john dewey, a renowned educational philosopher and proponent of the modern public education movement believed in the power of what he called, “ teachable moments."
that's why our trip to ca has  included visits to the ocean, sea world, and will include trips to the san  diego zoo and wild animal park.
each of the children shown is sitting quietly at their desk, hands folded, waiting for someone to tell them what to do, how to do it, when to do it, and so on.
his explanation of the phenomenon: how could i raise a child responsibly when i was still recovering from my own troubled childhood?
i rememberpeter kowalke, the "homeschooler in college" columnist for home education magazine going through a similar discovery process.
diversity for the sake of the  child: education nclb unclimber about our blogs we support life without school, diversity of perspective, choice, the  family and the child.
debra ross is the owner of axton enterprises, a technology consulting firm  that helps mail-order businesses get set up and trained to use  business-management software, and also the publisher ofkidsoutandabout.com, an  upstate new york web site that shows parents everything going on in their local  area for kids and families.
you can find her ataut-home-fam, which supports  families homeschooling their children with autism, or athomeschoolingcreatively , which supports families homeschooling children with a right-brained,  visual-spatial, creative learning style.
jacinta's studies one year were based on the american girl books, the josefina series.
so, this past february, i pulled them out mid-year and began homeschooling, as i had always intended to do sometime.
from  this example as well as our own experience with international adoption, has  come a desire to provide a multi-cultural worldview for our homeschool.
subjects that , given the choice, they would have  probably already been studying even if nobody had told them to.
i 'got" language  from the very first week i was in spanish class.
and we did, and we do.
we work together until about noon,  often with me having to interrupt myself from working with them to talk with  clients or to answer emails (my laptop and i are joined at the hip).
let's learn about some more famous women who were homeschooled and  determine what we can learn from their experiences.
one day as i hedged along, i asked him if he was  sure that we had to cover betsy ross specifically that year.
we are creating our own learning objectives as we  go.
all of this i did without any early childhood knowledge of language other  than my mother tongue.
after learning from them for sixteen years, i have finally dropped the idea that i need to examine and explain these girls, and let go of the idea that i must hold them up as proof that i made the right educational choices for them.
and reaching adulthood is not a ticket to stagnation.
debra ross is the owner of axton enterprises, a technology consulting firm that helps mail-order businesses get set up and trained to use business-management software, and also the publisher ofkidsoutandabout.com, an upstate new york web site that shows parents everything going on in their local area for kids and families.
“and the skylark sings with me ,” which includes stories about his children’s amazing interests and their ingenuity and drive in following them (building a huge telescope!
we also helped them find safe jobs by providing positions within family businesses, and we chauffeured them to do lawn care and odd jobs for a number of years before they were able to drive themselves.
her book, "the complete idiot's guide to homeschooling" was published in february 2001, and she has spoken at homeschool conferences and curriculum fairs in texas, california, and michigan.
won't each of us on our individual journeys have what we might consider failures?
we are reading dog poems, dog stories, dog myths and legends.
they know how to  learn.
she is the author ofdeschooling gently: a  step by step guide to fearless homeschooling.
and then, from mid-2003 to mid-2005, they attended a montessori preschool in the mornings.
eric would  certainly be the one to show me.
the fact that i loved my work meant that i did not want to give it up completely in order to educate the kids; fortunately, today’s technology makes that unnecessary.
she also works part-time outside the home as an office manager for both the family business and at a local church.
very gradually, caitlín and laurel developed interests in history, theatre, english literature, and the cinema.
she has served on  the planning committee for her local homeschool cooperative, taught creative  writing, edited the newsletter, and been a member of the hub (homeschoolers  united building) advisory committee.
do these not accumulate to create wisdom through living and  learning?
we are, however, preparing our children for life, and we are so very happy to be doing that without a formal education.
abraham lincoln had less then two years of formal schooling, mostly hit or miss.
we may manage to mold and shape them to some extent, but the fact remains that they have free will.
you can also see this in our schools - kids are taught a lot of different subjects.
his conclusion:  well, until i'm ready to  play by their rules, i'm not going to take college classes.
nevertheless, i wanted my kids to have interests.
still, my daughter, and her younger sister, laurel, did not latch on to any particular interest, although children all around us were doing so.
we cook foods from a variety of cultures, and often begin our unit studies by  learning about a particular country or culture.
so, what is this considered?
this does not mean that eric has been doing "nothing" since 16,  although sometimes it can appear that way from the outside looking in.
technorati tags: alternative education, college, education, homeschooling,  unschooling digg
my kids will do what they need to do to succeed.
but i  understood how the language worked.
jill kerr conway, former president of smith college, was raised on a sheep  station in australia and learned from life and correspondence lessons that she  began at the age of eight.
is socialization a personal thing?
it had rigidity without rigor, whereas i was looking for rigor without rigidity.
eric's future may or may not include  university matriculation, but i do know whatever he chooses will have been done  consciously and with his eyes wide open.
whatever  professional positions they hold, they will understand how to treat their jobs  as an opportunity continually to create value.
jacinta's studies one  year were based on the american girl books, the josefina series.
many don’t, but some do.
my family's holiday activities are now low key, keeping our observances  simple and meaningful.
who determines what category each falls?
caitlín was the only 3-year-old in her playgroup who had her own toolbox with real tools, an extra large set ofcuisenaire rods, or a chess set.
“a dog splurge,” you say, “does not an education make.”
and if that's the case, they will pick it up fast.
at  17, eric took his first part-time job.
i decided that this was the path for me.
if your child has a unique learning style, or learning  differences, it's easy for him or her to fall behind if left in a typical  classroom setting.
if she showed even the tiniest  interest in a subject, creature, object, or concept, i rushed in with  resources, manipulatives, books, toys, games, and real life objects.
i'm sure there are other outcomes, but it appears that statistically speaking, it is unlikely a person will find their love and passion in traditional schooling practices, but instead, simply continue the blind path they have always followed.
because the girls liked the school so well, i  decided to let them stay there for their early education, which would let me  continue to work.
eric had brought his unschooling perspective into  the classroom with him and did well with a professor whose grading recognized  and reflected the real learning that occurred within the confines of my son's  mind.
it was something that felt good to pursue.
he has had his starts and stops in this area, and learned an enormous amount about himself emotionally, and is now eager to leave in mid-january to begin the pursuit of meeting this goal and embracing all that it offers him in learning and growth.
in 2005, we moved from rochester, ny to charlottesville, va, and i had assumed that they would like the montessori school here as well.
eric was at a crossroads for his learning path.
if we let people pursue the things that make sense for them, they will naturally pick the things that they "get”.
unconventional ideas
homeschool resources a to z home's cool african american unschool national home education legal defense pat farenga waldorf homeschoolers on perspectives a perspective does not tell me what is right for you.
people like to talk about dogs!
i called it the "square peg in a round hole"  syndrome.
they  know and own their own “need to know,” and they feel directly  empowered when they delve into that personal energy and learn in it.
we noted that the number one thing that makes the season special for us is spending time with loved ones.
it's amazing how much more readily kids will learn when they are  interested in the subject, as opposed to learning the same topic when it's our  idea.
a couple of weeks ago, laurel, the thirteen-year-old,  noted matter-of-factly that she had just finished reading the unabridged “ pride and prejudice,” and today added that she has since then  read “sense and sensibility,” and plans to read “ emma” soon.
we live our teachable moments when we are actively engaged in our own lives!
we can plant seeds by making suggestions, planning field trips, or reading  together from books that we feel will spark an interest.
this last time he turned to architecture, and he's really good at it - despite being a car repairman until he was in his 40's.
even if we are very well-off financially, it's important for our children to be responsible for providing for themselves in some areas.
and that our wanting things to be a certain way, or expecting things a certain way, or even trying to predict what we need for the future, creates samsara – it creates suffering.
with his earnings, at 18 he fulfilled an adolescent goal of living in japan with a host family for two months.
why does she behave as she does and how do we train her (lots ofclassical/operant conditioning here and logical thinking in that one)?
what can we do if our children are passive learners and  don't give us many clues?
this is just a story of how  i put zen buddhism and education together in our family's life.
he agreed to it if i would assure him that we would cover those objectives.
in parenthood, it's  the gap between the healthy parenting ideas you embrace consciously and what  you're actually capable of doing, here and now.
in the mid-1990s, before i had kids, i saw that home schooling was an increasingly popular alternative to public schools.
when my daughter was 5, i registered her for school.
but i don’t believe that any more.
when we open gifts, we do it over a long course, so we can take time to fully appreciate each one.
same parents, same environment, different kid).
jacinta had attended heritage camp for the first time and was excited to share the korean national song with her friends, as well as teaching them how to bow and hold a fan.
i wanted to have financial independence just as a matter of principle.
we cook foods from a variety of cultures, and often begin our unit studies by learning about a particular country or culture.
won't each of us on our individual journeys have what we  might consider failures?
do you  know how much they want to learn about this dog named, sophie?
(dr. moore's "home-grown kids" was one of the first homeschooling books i read before we began this oddysey.)
jacinta  had attended heritage camp for the first time and was excited to share the  korean national song with her friends, as well as teaching them how to bow and  hold a fan.
one day as i hedged along, i asked him if he was sure that we had to cover betsy ross specifically that year.
it gives us the joy and  thrill that belongs to our own authentic experience and the power to be  self-determined.
self-directed learning is very different from a  traditional model of learning that has teachers and other adults deciding what  will be learned, when it will be learned, how it will be learned, and whether  it was learned.
these changes were initially not well received among the extended family,  but after a few years, the aunts, uncles, and grandparents stopped insisting on  giving my children pound puppies—or whatever was  “in”—regardless of my daughters’ interests.
eric had brought his unschooling perspective into the classroom with him and did well with a professor whose grading recognized and reflected the real learning that occurred within the confines of my son's mind.
cindy has a passion for learning about and celebrating the diverse learning  styles within her home, and moderates two yahoo group lists to support other  families with similar children.
if she showed even the tiniest interest in a subject, creature, object, or concept, i rushed in with resources, manipulatives, books, toys, games, and real life objects.
by debra i am the owner of axton enterprises, a technology consulting firm that  helps mail-order businesses get set up and trained to use business-management  software, and also the publisher ofkidsoutandabout.com, an upstate new york web  site that shows parents everything going on in their local area for kids and  families.
because we have never pushed our children through the typical schooling  line-up:  preschool, elementary, junior high, high school, college
and of course, the sociocultural pressures to behave badly financially are all around us.
even though at the time i did not consider the possibility of a career in business, i thought i could somehow use the developing technology to design a career that would give me the best work-life balance possible.
it is my belief that he  will end up choosing his own path versus letting the path choose for him.