pasta roller/cutter
but if you’re inviting kids into your  kitchen to help, prepare to have inexperienced little hands doing the helping.
get creative; it’s easy for  everyone to make their own combination and then share the results.
you are commenting using your twitter account.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.
any recipe with batter or dough is good for younger kids because there’s a lot more egg cracking, scooping, pouring and mixing than cutting.
you should also make sure you have a good  paring knife, one that their little hands can manipulate easily.
get a  peeler that fits comfortably in little hands so they can learn good technique.
simple, basic sets help kids understand the task at hand without having to decipher a cook’s codes.
fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: you are commenting using your wordpress.com account.
even if they  aren’t helping you with anything else, call the into the kitchen to break  the eggs.
be prepared for accidents, so break and separate into a bowl before  adding them to recipes.
get a peeler that fits comfortably in little hands so they can learn good technique.
explore a market with your kid; a market owner  who loves to share their knowledge with children is a good clue that they care  about their product and their customers.
whether you use microfibre cloths and water, or industrial strength bleach and disinfectants, be sure to understand how to handle food safely and keep your hands and work surfaces clean.
while it may seem  backwards to keep the knife sharp for little hands, dull knives slip easily,  creating nasty opportunity to miss the mark and slice into a finger or two (or  worse).
if you’ve ever tried to lift a large cast iron pan, you know that it can be tricky even for an adult.
pizza stone we use both an air tray an a pizza stone.
lots and lots of practice.
learning how to handle these two knives safely is important for kids.
even if they aren’t helping you with anything else, call the into the kitchen to break the eggs.
explore a market with your kid; a market owner who loves to share their knowledge with children is a good clue that they care about their product and their customers.
as adults, we can have lots of complicated multi-function devices, but these can be confusing to new cooks.
a basic, fresh tomato sauce is fine at  first, but different shapes allow a kid to experiment with different sauce  textures and tastes.
only you will know when you can trust your little kid with a knife.
(i’ve heard the y shaped peelers are easy and effective, but i haven’t used one yet.)
powered by wordpress.com
it’s easy to use, and will  last a lifetime if you take care of it.
the iconic kitchenaid™ mixer.
with a grain of salt, as they say.
take advantage of little moments to get rid of trash, tidy your tools and prepare for the next step.
there are some items (such as  wooden spoons) that trick you into paying for style rather than substance, but  often there is a real advantage to paying for better quality.
our favorite thing to cook together is home made pancakes and waffles on the weekends.
taking a kid into the kitchen is an adventure.
knife skills are the benchmark of respect in a kitchen, and it takes practice.
making fresh pasta is easy, and  kids are always excited to eat the results.
here are a few things i’ve learned, and a few of the special tools  that make your time a little easier, and a lot more fun.
teach your child to respect the knife with proper holding, cutting and storing techniques.
you can try again soon enough.
and they cut poorly, making it frustrating and not fun.
or anything in between.
you can execute a chore; put a few ingredients  together to create a simple meal with minimal preparation and flair.
spices add an  intensity of flavour, or combine to create taste profiles that shifts food from  bland to wow.
i am not even a cook.
while i  won’t ever pretend that pizza is actually a health food, it’s easy  to get vegetable into the mix.
make a habit of getting all the ingredients ready before you start  anything, and plan to waste a bit of food while learning to cook.
the compromise on heat quality won’t be an  issue, and the kids will get more chances to be involved.
as dads, we get to show off our skills, ensuring the next generation carries forward any delicious habits we’ve honed over the years.
notify me of new posts via email.
one disclaimer,  though: i am not a chef.
there are few domestic tasks that also allow for as much creativity, skill and pleasure than cooking.
things will  get broken or squished or dropped or burnt.
invest  in a good one and take care of it.
while it may seem backwards to keep the knife sharp for little hands, dull knives slip easily, creating nasty opportunity to miss the mark and slice into a finger or two (or worse).
but now it’s the middle of the afternoon and i’m hungry!
a basic, fresh tomato sauce is fine at first, but different shapes allow a kid to experiment with different sauce textures and tastes.
if  you’ve ever tried to lift a large cast iron pan, you know that it can be  tricky even for an adult.
as dads, we get to show off  our skills, ensuring the next generation carries forward any delicious habits  we’ve honed over the years.
pizza is big round taste experiment.
nothing is more discouraging to a young chef than making something nobody wants to eat, so be ready for anything.
like  many things, it will probably be sooner than you would like.
spices add an intensity of flavour, or combine to create taste profiles that shifts food from bland to wow.
peeler this should be one of the easiest tasks to get little ones helping.
get creative; it’s easy for everyone to make their own combination and then share the results.
here are a few things i’ve learned, and a few of the special tools that make your time a little easier, and a lot more fun.
the basics as a general rule, you should buy the best  quality equipment and ingredients you can afford.
what have you learned about cooking with kids?
posted on april 29, 2012 by stephen abbott
cooking with the stone takes the pizza from good to amazing.
stuffing pasta is takes a little more patience, but  it’s a good step forward when linguine becomes a little too routine.
or you can  turn a meal into an event; an experiment in flavours, presentation, culture and  indulgence.
keep in mind that most herbs are also pretty easy to grow in the smallest of gardens, so fresh versions are an option.
depending on how strong your kids are, you may look at getting a few extra pieces that are smaller and lighter.
you are commenting using your facebook account.
cooking with the stone takes the pizza  from good to amazing.
you can try  again soon enough.
the air tray cooks the pizza through and gets a thicker, sturdy crust, then we  transfer to the stone to crisp it up.
but if you’re inviting kids into your kitchen to help, prepare to have inexperienced little hands doing the helping.
one disclaimer, though: i am not a chef.
it takes little more time and a lot more planning, but it is something you can do everyday, and a skill they will use for the rest of their lives.
he did pull off a frittata for me, though, so i can’t complain.
things will get broken or squished or dropped or burnt.
there are some items (such as wooden spoons) that trick you into paying for style rather than substance, but often there is a real advantage to paying for better quality.
i’ve tried all sorts of things to show him how magical they are (berries, chocolate, whipped cream, bananas) but nothing seems to work.
as adults, we can have lots of complicated multi-function  devices, but these can be confusing to new cooks.
taste is a sense that actually develops as we grow older, so if your child doesn’t like something today, don’t despair.
cookware let’s assume you have the basic set of  sturdy pots and pans.
teach your  child to respect the knife with proper holding, cutting and storing techniques.
a clean space is safer, easier to work in, and healthier for everyone.
keep in mind that most herbs are also pretty easy to grow in the smallest  of gardens, so fresh versions are an option.
or you can turn a meal into an event; an experiment in flavours, presentation, culture and indulgence.
stuffing pasta is takes a little more patience, but it’s a good step forward when linguine becomes a little too routine.
you can execute a chore; put a few ingredients together to create a simple meal with minimal preparation and flair.
like many things, it will probably be sooner than you would like.
as for food,  fresh and local are good rules.
you can make green pasta and red pasta, paring it with sauces in exciting ways.
get used to eating imperfect dishes and “unique” flavours.
you should also make sure you have a good paring knife, one that their little hands can manipulate easily.
make a habit of getting all the ingredients ready before you start anything, and plan to waste a bit of food while learning to cook.
adventures of a really cool dad proud dad & husband celebrating the  male role in good, modern parenting.
a clean space  is safer, easier to work in, and healthier for everyone.
you can make green pasta and red pasta, paring it with  sauces in exciting ways.
cookware let’s assume you have the basic set of sturdy pots and pans.
don’t wait until  the end of the meal to clean the kitchen.
your 8” chef’s knife is your best friend in the kitchen.
nothing is more discouraging to a young chef than making something nobody wants  to eat, so be ready for anything.
herbs & spices different cultures use different  spices as staples, so go exploring and talk with friends.
taste is a sense that actually develops as we grow older, so if  your child doesn’t like something today, don’t despair.
(i’ve heard the y shaped peelers are easy and effective, but i  haven’t used one yet.)
here’s the challenge: sharp knives are safer.
making fresh pasta is easy, and kids are always excited to eat the results.
it takes little more time and a  lot more planning, but it is something you can do everyday, and a skill they  will use for the rest of their lives.
be prepared for accidents, so break and separate into a bowl before adding them to recipes.
cooking with kids can be fun and rewarding.
as for food, fresh and local are good rules.
the compromise on heat quality won’t be an issue, and the kids will get more chances to be involved.
measuring get devices that are easy to handle and easy to read.
-kevin can you believe my son doesn’t like pancakes?
simple, basic sets help kids  understand the task at hand without having to decipher a cook’s codes.
take advantage of little moments to  get rid of trash, tidy your tools and prepare for the next step.
thank for the comment.
cancel connecting to %s notify me of follow-up comments via email.
i thought every kid loved them, but apparently not mine.
depending on how strong your kids are,  you may look at getting a few extra pieces that are smaller and lighter.
skip to content ← hockey fan or parent; can i  be both?
invest in a good one and take care of it.
don’t wait until the end of the meal to clean the kitchen.
herbs & spices different cultures use different spices as staples, so go exploring and talk with friends.
so take this advice as a ‘really-cool-dad-who-tries’.
measuring get devices that are easy to handle and  easy to read.
the air tray cooks the pizza through and gets a thicker, sturdy crust, then we transfer to the stone to crisp it up.
while i won’t ever pretend that pizza is actually a health food, it’s easy to get vegetable into the mix.
so take this advice as a  ‘really-cool-dad-who-tries’.
learning how  to handle these two knives safely is important for kids.
great post stephen, my boys love to help me cook.
whether you  use microfibre cloths and water, or industrial strength bleach and  disinfectants, be sure to understand how to handle food safely and keep your  hands and work surfaces clean.
knives are dangerous.
knife skills are the benchmark of respect in a kitchen, and it  takes practice.
the basics as a general rule, you should buy the best quality equipment and ingredients you can afford.
clean always keep your kitchen clean.
eggs kids love to break eggs.
it’s easy to use, and will last a lifetime if you take care of it.
there are few domestic tasks that also allow for as much creativity, skill  and pleasure than cooking.
practice give yourself lots of time to prepare a meal  with a kid.
practice give yourself lots of time to prepare a meal with a kid.