the linguistics of the chinese language are easier to trace back in time than are the characters used for chinese alphabet, as there is rare documentation found to support the origins.
a teacher always likes questions.
i printed out pdf worksheet for her weekly, and my  daughter loves writing chinese pinyin and character.
for example, you will see “and” and “the” come up frequently in english sentences.
chinese is the one of the most spoken language in the world.
you can rewind a podcast.
pauline on review 7: review of lesson 29 ~ 32 aihua, when do  you use deng yu or ji for how many , how much sorry my... pauline on review 7: review of lesson 29 ~ 32 aihua, when do  you use or for how many, how much thank you.
we are going to work on it soon.
you will have more business and career opportunities china is the second largest economy in the world, and it is the biggest market in the world.
thank you  for setting my ip again....
but i dont find any way of  finding the... aihua on lesson 9: having breakfast (ii)
i've been  using rosetta stone, but your website seems to give the basics up...
lessons’ topics are designed using practical dialogues starting with focusing on kids’ daily life in the united states while you receive systematic training on chinese listening, speaking, reading and writing.
i found that aihua's english is so easy to understand besides she speaks mandarin chinese so perfectly.
actually, i do not know the exact reason.
it is the reality and it is a trend with the globalization.
there are more reasons to learn chinese including: 1.
have a transcript in front of you when listening to the lesson.
podcasts give you the control.
this is a good news advice for you to learn chinese words!
i have made up my mind to set up a good role model for my daughter by learning chinese myself, and helping my daughter learn chinese as well.
chinese words, phrases, and sentences are formed by chinese characters.
each way has pros and cons.
in addition to learn chinese characters, you also need to learn chinese words, phrases, and sentences.
radicals are the component of chinese characters while strokes are the basic elements of radicals.
and there  is a... andrew wells on lesson 9: having breakfast (ii)
you can pause it, store it wherever you want.
chinese characters are symbols of chinese history.
like any other languages, you will find there are some terms which get used more frequently.
[...] continue readingtags: chinese characters, learn chinese, learning chinese characters 02 august 2011 ~ 0 comments for most of english speakers, the chinese language seems to be a complex mystery intimidating to unravel and to understand.
if you are a multilingual, you can speak to many more people, understand their culture more, and communicate with them better.
as a result, i feel as if i had hit a wall in my path of knowledge.
other expressions will be used only rarely.
nowadays, you can learn chinese in many easier and more convenient ways, such as learning chinese using chinese podcast, and learning chinese online.
i truly believe raising my daughter bilingually  is the best gift ever i can give her.
when children acquire their mother tongue, they understand and speak before they are capable of reading and writing.
language study research shows that using auditory and visual media at same time can achieve better learning results.
the traditional way to learn a foreign language was to incorporate the study within some form of primary or secondary education.
my  friend referred me to kids chinese podcast.
mandarin chinese is the most spoken language is the world.
there are numerous ways to start studying chinese words.
in the level-1 lessons, our goal is to let students have a feeling on chinese mandarin’s phonics and chinese characters, and build a sense of chinese language in a short time.
i am really enjoying listening kids chinese podcast lessons, and i'm learning a lot.
in california, the united states, one immigrants’ area where i live, almost every child is bilingual, and some of them are multilingual.
i only can say that... pauline on review 11:
scekem on lesson 39: recess time (i) yea aihua on review 7: review of lesson 29 ~ 32 hi scekem, you're  welcome!
—haruna i'm a grandma and learning chinese together with my granddaughter, we like  and enjoy kids chinese podcast lessons.
parents and kids listen to kids chinese podcast together and learn chinese together, having fun and achieve the best learning results.
— alexander © 2012 kids chinese podcast 学中文.
once the podcast is downloaded, it’s just an mp3.you can listen to it using a computer or, more commonly, to a portable mp3 player.
try to imitate after the teacher, even if the sounds seem to be difficult to pronounce.
listen as many times as possible whenever you have a chance , when you driving your child to school, before bedtime etc. 4.
andy chen on lesson 1: self introduction thank you for  teaching me new words.
thanks a lot, aihua and amy! — dan each kids chinese podcast lesson is around 15 minutes, which is short and sweet.
this will be useful for me :)
parents and kids can talk using what we have learned in the lesson and use what we have learned in the previous lessons.
after you sign up, you will get access to all transcript and pdf worksheet.
china is the country, which has the most population; it is becoming one of the countries, which have a strong economic power as well.
congratulations on starting your journey to learn chinese!
the lesson offers very useful dialogs that can be practiced in my daily life.
at the core a podcast is an audio file that is automatically received from the internet and then synced to your mp3 player.
her writing is also improving much faster than it was 2 months ago.
amy and i will try our best to... pauline on lesson 17: going to school (ii)
i can speak three languages, chinese, english and japanese, and work in california, the united states.
thanks a lot, aihua and amy! — dan each kids chinese podcast lesson is around 15 minutes, which is short and  sweet.
wish you every success with it.
we list our research result and suggestion as the following to help you learning chinese and we will start the learning chinese journey with you, together, we will explore and improve our chinese lessons to help you achieve the best learning result!
username or email password remember me 11 august 2011 ~ 1 comment chinese words, phrases, and sentences are formed by chinese characters.
enjoy more in your life by broadening your view!!
this chinese course helps you to learn chinese listening and speaking via podcast, and chinese reading and writing via podcast transcript and exercise worksheet.
if parents can be persist, your child will be too!
review of lesson 29 ~ 32 pauline, thank you  for your question.
language research study reports that kids under five can speak a language without any accent just a native speaker.
there are different varieties on both of these depending on the geographical localities.
4 months later, my pronunciation has improved to a point with which i can now confidently speak chinese in front of my chinese colleagues.
jan on lesson 1: self introduction i lived in taiwan over 10  years ago and learned some basic chinese.
despite many efforts, the boy never learnt to talk.
encourage good study habits by scheduling regular chinese study time.
hi maria, sorry for  replying a little late.
learning as the children do is a brilliant concept.
continue readingtags: learn chinese, study tips
china has over five thousand years history, so the chinese language contains the rich chinese culture.
continue readingtags: learn chinese 19 july 2011 ~ 0 comments a language is a communication tool to get to know the culture and communicate with the people who speak the language.
i am  really enjoying listening kids chinese podcast lessons, and i'm learning a lot.
her writing is also  improving much faster than it was 2 months ago.
like learning other languages, there will come a time when you will need to learn chinese words as basic vocabulary.
pauline on learn chinese pinyin in 21 days – day 2:
we recommend the following steps to achieve the best chinese learning results.
— george i’m a japanese.
excellent aihua and  amy.....most enjoyable way of presenting a difficult subjet...have a happy new  year ...
thank you  very... alexander on lesson 1: self introduction i am 63 years old and  i am a complete novice.
from educational point of view, podcasting is giving educators another way to meet today’s students where they live and learn on the internet and on audio players.
traditionally, the only way people could take live chinese lessons is by meeting chinese teachers face to face, either in schools, language learning centers or at a physical location.
parents and kids are the best study pal, this approach motivates parents to set a good role model on discipline and nurture kids a good study habit, in the same time, parents and kids learn, practice speaking chinese in a really fun and effective way.
i  absolutely liked reading... nelia kodera on how to write chinese characters – strokes  types keep working ,terrific job!
i like  kids chinese podcast chinese lessons since i can learn chinese and... aihua on lesson 1: self introduction hello jeehyun, we have a  better solution for pdf transcript now.
you will enjoy more different things in life!
you can play it over and over.
john on lesson 1: self introduction thanks, aihua!
you will be amazed how fast you can speak chinese!
although i have been learning chinese for the past 3 years, i failed to  master the correct chinese pronunciations.
— alexander recent comments aihua on review 11: review of lesson
aihua on lesson 1: self introduction hi john, thanks for your  encouragement.
i truly believe raising my daughter bilingually is the best gift ever i can give her.
you can listen to a podcast exactly what you want, when you want and how you want!
comments the chinese language is most well known for the written and beautiful chinese characters stroked on the flat paper.
the worksheet of each lesson has a translation exercise for you, so please fill in your answer and then compare your answer to the correct one that the teacher announced at the end of your next lesson.
you’re in control of when and how you listen.
if you are interested in the history of the chinese language, let’s take a quick look at it.
i am using the three languages at my work place every day, which benefits me a lot on my professional work.
for most westerners, to learn chinese characters looks complex and difficult.
[...] continue readingtags: chinese lanaguge, learn chinese, learning chinese 26 july 2011 ~ 0 comments if you are interested in learning chinese, you may have the question, how to learn chinese?
musical tones are perhaps the most difficult thing in mandarin chinese, that’s why we use the native-language-acquiring approach, namely, the just listening and then understanding way.
i have made up my mind to set  up a good role model for my daughter by learning chinese myself, and helping my  daughter learn chinese as well.
you do not have to have an ipod to listen to a podcast.
i think kids chinese podcast is by far the best means of learning chinese.
hi aihua; why  "close" 1)close your eyes...
in 1800, a young boy called the wild boy was found in a forest in france.
tones very nice job indeed, thanks for all elza rea on learn chinese pinyin in 21 days – day 20:  spelling rules thanks for the post :) buckie on learn chinese pinyin in 21 days – day 17: finals  ua, uo, uai what a great rsecoure this text is.
then continuing adult classes started springing up all over and with a host of other available subjects, the chinese language was thrown in as an afterthought.
more and more people are bilingual and multilingual because their daily life and work needs.
by being able to communicate with more people better, you gain more opportunities in your career and your life!
greeting (i) i would like to learn chinese aihua on lesson 1: self introduction hello jeehyun, thank you  very much for your feedback.
i was amazed by my daughter's pronunciation; my chinese colleague said that my daughter was speaking just like a native speaker.
it fits in well with my busy work schedule.
as a beginner, you may have a lot of questions on chinese words.
it is one of largest trading partners of the united states.
although i have been learning chinese for the past 3 years, i failed to master the correct chinese pronunciations.
hi pauline, please click the triangle of the icon.
with china economy growth, more and more people become interested in chinese culture including chinese characters.
the lesson offers very  useful dialogs that can be practiced in my daily life.
you can listen to podcasts on your computer, burn them to cd or transfer them to your mp3 player.
hi pauline, our  technical team is working on a permanent solution for you now.
with podcasts, you’re in control.
review of lesson 45~51
mandarin chinese language is the official language of china and taiwan, as well as one of four official languages of singapore, and one of six official languages of the united nations.
kids chinese podcast teaches mandarin chinese.
daysia on learn chinese pinyin in 21 days – day 15: finals,  ia, iao what an awesome way to explain this—now i know eveyrthing!
in addition, i have many friends who came from china, japan, india, and u.s etc.
reproduction without permission prohibited.
my friend referred me to kids chinese podcast.
many language scholars think if you pick up the 20% most commonly used terms in mandarin chinese, then you will be able to understand 80% of what you hear and read.
aihua on lesson 1: self introduction hi jasneskis, thank you  very much for visiting kidschinesepodcast.com and trying our chinese lessons.
i want to print out transcript in pdf file.
some people could not have the access to this kind of chinese classes.
review of lesson 29 ~ 32 thank  you aihua...that was the question: the difference between how much and how many  in chinese....
i know a lot of people in europe are multilingual.
good job, aihua and amy!
kids usually are not shy, adults,don’t be shy!
start early as possible as you can.
“can’t teach an  old dog new tricks” or “never too old to learn”
do you have plan to... aihua on lesson 1: self introduction hello alexander, i am  very glad that you joined the chinese learning journey with us!
pauline pbazinet@sympatico.ca  user: b1mbmb64 aihua on lesson 18: going to school (iii)
—haruna i'm a grandma and learning chinese together with my granddaughter, we like and enjoy kids chinese podcast lessons.
scekem on review 7: review of lesson 29 ~ 32 this helped me  alot thank you aihua and amy aihua on learn chinese pinyin in 21 days – day 2:
sign up for the chinese lessons and learn chinese together with your child.
however, to learn chinese language is not difficult as you thought because the grammar of chinese language is much simpler than english.
usually, there are three main ways to help you decide the order.
the word replaced webcast in common use with the success of the ipod (one of the most popular portable mp3 players) and its role in the rising popularity and innovation of web feeds.
which is right one 'bēi shàng shū  bāo' or... aihua on lesson 1: self introduction hello jeehyun, we comes  up with a quick solution and we are working on a better solution...
— kathy i am 63 years old and i am a complete novice.
please download adobe reader... augustine bohorquez on learn chinese words this chinese  lessons was unbelievably helpful.
"bēi shū bāo" emphasizes the action  of "bēi", while "bēi... jeehyun on lesson 16: going to school (i)
haruna on lesson 1: self introduction i'm a japanese.
help you child to start learning chinese early as possible as you can!
if you learn a new language, you are easy to learn and understand the culture, and then you can communicate with more people and understand them well, which open more opportunities for your life including more business opportunities, job opportunities and the opportunities related to your personal life.
kids chinese podcast is designed for kids from 5 years old up and adult chinese learners to learn mandarin chinese.
it usually takes a lot of time and effort to make a trip to the chinese classes.
_bi shang____yan jing and 2)close the  door.
andy on lesson 1: self introduction awesome lesson, thanks so  much!
thank you for the  class.
as a result, i feel as if i had hit  a wall in my path of knowledge.
since then, i restarted learning pinyin using kids chinese podcast lessons as a beginner.
unlike many western languages which share some common linguistic roots with english and which can often be learned fairly quickly with a large amount of self-study for adults, acquiring a basic competency in a language as different from english as chinese requires a high level of commitment and persistence.
in fact, there are many other mp3 players that are good for listening to podcasts.
for example, everyday, after dinner, spend about 20 minutes.
that’s why we promote parents and kids learn chinese together.
business people who speak mandarin chinese have a huge advantage in tapping into the chinese market.
if you wish to learn chinese, we suggest you start learning to speak chinese first just like a little kid.
one of the best ways parents can help with your child’s educationis to take part yourself.
it's ok to fall behind sometimes, because  everyone has... scekem on lesson 60: days of the week i fell behind recently  in my mandirin class because i went on a trip, and my... pauline bazinet on review 7:
pauline on lesson 18: going to school (iii)
— hanae english is my second language, now i am starting learning chinese.
i  have different accesories like iphone, ipad, ipod touch and computer.
[...] continue readingtags: chinese, learn chinese 11 december 2010 ~ 0 comments dear subscribers, welcome to chinese lessons at kidschinesepodcast.com!
thank... aihua on review 7:
self introduction thank you, jan!
in the same time, with the internet, more and more convenient and effective ways to help you learn chinese become available.
it says : listened to the audio first....
how to learn chinese effectively?
i found that aihua's english is so  easy to understand besides she speaks mandarin chinese so perfectly.
learning as the children do... carlita area on how to write chinese characters – strokes  types i'm still learning from you, but i'm trying to reach my goals.
you can learn chinese anywhere in the world and whenever you have time!
he was thought to have passed language learning periods.
i saw you logged in around 15:30 by the... maria calderón on lesson 9: having breakfast (ii)
i like kids chinese podcast chinese lessons since i can learn chinese and english together.
jasneskis on lesson 1: self introduction i tried this today  for the first time.
you can listen to podcasts on anything that plays mp3 files.
as old as 4000 years ago, the chinese language exists as even more popular today.
“can’t teach an old dog new tricks” or “never too old to learn”
[...] continue readingtags: chinese lessons, chinese podcast, learn chinese 12 july 2011 ~ 0 comments we live in a global society now.
i printed out pdf worksheet for her weekly, and my daughter loves writing chinese pinyin and character.
to learn and master chinese language, the foundation is the most  important...
be persistent and never give up!
it is good, i am 68 and just learning.
i appreciate all your dedication to this approach.
it is much easier to develop all-important relationships if you can speak mandarin chinese.
hope your people find a permanent solution for my  problem' have... aihua on lesson 17: going to school (ii) hi pauline, thank you  very much for your encouragement!
greeting (i) welcome you, kate!
however, the downside of this tactic is that you will find grammatical terms often come up more frequently than actual nouns.
i really like aihua's native chinese pronunciation.
continue readingtags: learn chinese 14 july 2011 ~ 0 comments a podcast is a series of digital audio or video file that are released episodically and often it’s downloaded through internet.
i'm glad to hear that.
since then, i restarted learning pinyin using  kids chinese podcast lessons as a beginner.
i think you  made a wonderful choice for starting your learning chinese journey.... kate on lesson 3:
i was amazed by my daughter's  pronunciation; my chinese colleague said that my daughter was speaking just  like a native speaker.
aihua on lesson 16: going to school (i) hi jeehyun, both of  them are correct.
great idea... hendon amann on lesson 35: color (i) i really enjoy reading  your site, keep up the good work.
i like kids chinese podcast chinese lessons since i  can learn chinese and english together.
chinese characters are called the founding blocks of chinese language.
because different person has different learning style, the answer to the question may be different.
sign up and become a registered member.
i... jeehyun on lesson 1: self introduction it `s too inconvenient.
my 6 years old daughter and i started learning chinese together two months ago using kids chinese podcast lessons.
my... willy thorton on learning chinese language outstanding site  keep up the great work, thanks for the info, i will pass your blog...
therefore, the transcript serves a very good study guide.
firstly, listen the audio lesson about 10 minutes, then do the worksheet to practice reading and writing for about 5 minutes then spend another 5 minutes, practice speaking.
you can download a pdf transcript... aihua on lesson 1: self introduction hi andy, it's nice to  hear that the chinese lessons are useful to you.
zinadini balochi on learn chinese pinyin in 21 days – day 1:
kidschinesepodcast.com is dedicated to helping you expand your chinese vocabulary.
hi pauline, very  good question!
for example, the opportunities to make more friends, the job opportunities.
practice what you have learned whenever you have a chance .
newsletter what people are saying
there are many resources available to help you learn chinese characters.
one way to learn chinese words is by frequency of their use.
my 6 years old daughter and i started learning chinese together two months ago  using kids chinese podcast lessons.
now, the students are able to take the teacher anywhere by bring their podcast with them.
they are frequency of use, complexity of the written language and situation.
[...] continue readingtags: chinese words, learn chinese, learning chinese, learning chinese words 09 august 2011 ~ 0
many us companies do business in china and have long-term investments there.
you can delete it when you want.
4 months later, my pronunciation  has improved to a point with which i can now confidently speak chinese in front  of my chinese colleagues.
there are many benefits for being multilingual.
historically, the chinese language evolved from proto-sino-tibetan and has ascended into modern day with most chinese communities speaking either mandarin or cantonese forms of the chinese language while mandarin is the official chinese language.
kids can be parents’ teacher in terms of speaking and correct pronunciation.
wherever you are, whenever you have time, you can find a way to learn chinese and learn chinese characters.
learning as the children do  is a brilliant concept.
this is also true when learning a foreign language.
johnny on lesson 18: going to school (iii)
men very hard work but interesting thank... aihua on lesson 60: days of the week hi scekem, thank you for  your comment and encouragement!
i'm not sure what your  question really...