when the environment is, at least in some ways, unfamiliar, the infant tries to figure it out.
so for the adolescent play begins to be less structured than it was for  the preadolescent.
after the game another of the fathers came into the locker room, yanked his son up off the bench where he was sitting, and yelled: "you fucking son of a bitch; if you'd hit that guy against the wall you wouldn't have lost this game."
'i like the talking part, but at the end of the game you come together
his yard and the street outside the fence were  full of his contemporaries who had come over to play when i arrived to talk  with him and his single mother.
but it is hardly  surprising that for every bill bradley there are several prominent athletes  being prosecuted for drug violations and sexual assaults, being pursued,  despite seven-figure salaries, for nonpayment of alimony and child support or  in paternity suits.
it is intrinsically motivated, pursued for the sheer satisfaction it offers.
the expansion of fantasy in the three-year-olds is  being countered with a move back to realism by the five-year-olds.
that part of the game is fun to  me,' adds brad.
if a boy demonstrates superior talent in organized sports, but also displays behavior that is offensive, his behavior is sometimes tolerated in order to keep his talent available to the team.
my grandson noah, a  fledgling toddler, is very fond of a shortly-before-bedtime game of running and  getting caught-quite a few times in a row.
before boys can walk, they display a capacity to play, and before they begin school they will be old enough in some communities to participate in organized sports.
in  chapter 18, 1 referred to brett.
the rule  margaret and evan have agreed to is that no one uses the trampoline unless she  is at home.
organized team sports continue to enjoy intense commitment among adolescent  males, but for a declining number of them.
i drove seventy miles an hour to get  here, spun out twice, ran three cars off the road and roared past an accident  where it looked like they needed some help.
the old way offered less instruction, and the  equipment was less adequate, so boys had to invent game sites in yards and  streets and share equipment.
sports can support the development of a  boy's character, or they can degrade it.
having a good time becomes less defined as doing something with friends, more defined as being together, enjoying time of one's own.
that part of the game is fun to me,' adds brad.
the ambiguity of organized sports for boys is that they often confusingly  support both sides of the equation.
play must be pleasurable, or it isn't play.
hughes also believes this kind of activity may help a child to read the emotional states-happiness, fright, sadness, and so on-of others as they are expressed or mimed in play, and to express his own emotions effectively with facial expression and gesture.
something akin to "doubling" also occurs between players or  teams, and officials.
he might be concentrating on who is winning, on rooting for someone, in which case his association with play is borderline; or he may be enjoying the skill of players, in which case his activity is more closely related to play.
brenda bredemeier and david shields interviewed high school and college students-some of them athletes, some not-asking them to comment on the moral dimension of athletic and nonathletic situations.
the best games were those with evenly matched sides and close scores; then  everyone felt good at the end, because with a lucky break here or there the  game could credibly have gone the other way.
some psychologists believe that these competitive  activities fail to qualify as play as defined at the beginning of this chapter,  and that play as an activity declines swiftly in boys' lives once competitive  games with rules establish dominance in free activity time.
i saw a fine kind of parent-child interaction when i visited evan  and his mother.
my grandson noah, a fledgling toddler, is very fond of a shortly-before-bedtime game of running and getting caught-quite a few times in a row.
~when circumstances promote it, children of that and later ages will often display parallel play-children playing separately at the same activities in the same place and at the same time.
in fact, some teams have given him physicals and turned him down based on the findings.
players seldom perform without error in contests, and officials make mistakes of judgment and observation.
my concern  in this chapter is chiefly with the adolescent, but a few words are in order  about the childhood activities that precede sports and sportsmanship.
i drove seventy miles an hour to get here, spun out twice, ran three cars off the road and roared past an accident where it looked like they needed some help.
(evan and his mother, incidentally,  are right to be concerned.
another coach from iowa painted a chicken gold to represent  the rival "golden eagles" and had his team kick it around the field  to "get the eagle."
drawing him into organized sports as a rehabilitative gesture because he will learn "sportsmanship" there places unwarranted expectations on those sports.
obviously male drives to establish dominance hierarchies and to test an opponent's response to physical aggression are an inevitable component in contact sports even when played by young boys, and in other sports as well.
even if you were late because of circumstances clearly beyond your control, you got no sympathy or credit.'
patricia hersch observed some seventh-grade boys who play in the same kind of junior football league i mentioned at the beginning of the chapter: at the field, the kids bound out of the car, happy to see their teammates.
by the same token, i suppose, a fan who is completely, vicariously caught up in watching a game might be thought of as being at play.
they talk about the past weekend's game, where they crushed their opponent.
as two-year-olds, she noted, children engage mostly in solitary play and onlooker play.
thou  shalt be punctual.
and  red holzman smiles and says, "that's my boy."
they describe play as having five necessary  characteristics.
the philosopher sissela bok takes the analysis a step further in her recent  book mayhem: violence as public entertainment.
the home team was  winless for the season, which didn't improve the mood of the parents and other  locals who had gathered to watch and to cheer if the game gave them any  opportunity.
the competition is fierce.
the function of play changes in fundamental ways from the preadolescent to the adolescent.
their most typical play is solitary, or else onlooker play in which they watch another child nearby.
parents often view these activities as ways of keeping boys' free time occupied so they won't get into trouble inventing activities on their own.
since play of this sort is usually intensely stimulating, the child is  highly aroused, and, more importantly, the high arousal level must be sustained  for the duration of the play.
perhaps early exploration is the precursor of what a person will eventually regard as work.
it isn't females, predominantly, who have built the elaborately overorganized system of sports for boys in the united states, mimicking professional sports with uniforms, leagues, intricate scheduling, commercial sponsors, media coverage, maintenance of performance records, selection of all-stars, seasons leading to playoffs, and enormous emphasis on competitiveness and winning.
we risk boys' making use of violence in contexts other than sport: toward intimates, and in antisocial acts committed by individuals or groups.
once that begins most of the issues grouped under the umbrella of sportsmanship  exist in recognizable form.
they play twenty-five different kinds of sports, directed by a volunteer army of 4.5 million coaches and 1.5 million administrators.
but it isn't hard to find examples of  the injudicious.
the implication of this is  gloomy for boys raised by a single mother.
bradley recalls a rule for which no exception was ever granted-a rule that  was worthwhile but hardly worth making into the eleventh commandment:
children tend to seek out same-sex playmates as early as age two.
finally, play has to be actively engaged in by a person-physically or  psychologically or both.
[obscenity], try again."
average folks try to find ways to interrupt work with moments of play; even crumpling paper into a ball and sending it to the wastebasket via an air hook worthy of kareem qualifies as play.
bradley gave an example from which he drew the subtitle of the chapter.
his attention is intense, his heartbeat steady, his demeanor serious and often somewhat cautious.
i don't remember any boys getting excluded because they were untalented.
the son's team lost by one  goal.
boys with an early propensity to aggression feed on violence in the media and use it to organize and stimulate their behavior.
another rule is that other kids can't come into the house to play  while his mother is at work.
a high school coach in wisconsin gave a "hit of the week" award to the player who appeared from analysis of game films to have made the most vicious hit on an opposing football player.
there is an expansion of fantasy in their play and blurring of the distinction between fantasy and reality.
patricia hersch  observed some seventh-grade boys who play in the same kind of junior football  league i mentioned at the beginning of the chapter:
he loves to  put things into other things and take them out again.
they describe play as having five necessary characteristics.
coaches and parents often assert  that participation in organized sports contributes to self-esteem, particularly  among boys who are more likely than girls to define themselves in terms of  athletic accomplishment.
trampolines caused 249,000 accidents, and the annual  frequency of injury doubled, between 1990 and 1995; they are now among the  leading causes of childhood injury.)
the characterological difference between a bill bradley and a latrell sprewell, the choker traded to the knicks, was established long before either got a contract to play professional basketball, or even college ball.
even if you were  late because of circumstances clearly beyond your control, you got no sympathy  or credit.'
his yard and the street outside the fence were full of his contemporaries who had come over to play when i arrived to talk with him and his single mother.
if they want you to pass the physical, you will pass the physical."
leaders always emerged.
four-year-olds begin  to demonstrate cooperative play where two or more children engage in play in  which participants have to fulfill complementary tasks toward a common goal.
violence,  i'm afraid, does appear to breed violence, and the forum in which it is most  frequently bred outside the home is on the field of sport.
but i  asked a contemporary of mine what he remembered of the games of our summers and  after-schools and weekends.
as adults they will watch these games in large numbers, but they won't play them.
greenspan gives a nice example: eight-year-old michael and his dad are each racing a remote-control car.
mere preference for the same play activities isn't as sufficient a basis for friendship as it once was; adolescents are looking for complementary personalities.
fergus hughes, who has written incisively about play, recalls a first grader named scott who had no interest in competitive sports but was pressured by both parents to join a school soccer team.
play is more relaxed and joyful than exploration.
i suspect they don't play adult basketball and baseball because such games were ruined for them as kids.
310 b.  j. bredemeier, m. r. weiss, d. l. shields, b. cooper, "the relation- ship of sport involvement with children's moral reasoning and ag- gression  tendencies," journal of sport psychology 8 (1986), 304-318.
still lacking fine motor skills, they may enjoy the look and feel  of play materials more than the things they may create with them.
for these reasons, i view sportsmanship as something a boy more likely brings to the sport than vice versa.
here is what, in essence, he said: what organized sports has substantially displaced was an informal network of neighborhood or interneighborhood activities that boys organized themselves.
they are better able to wait their turn, share, and  cooperate.
it's  controlled violence, chris and brad explain'.
baking an actual cake may be fun, but it is work that happens to be  fun; playing house and baking a pretend cake is play; building an imaginary  house with lego is play.
what we used to call "pickup games."
brenda bredemeier measured the attitudes of high school and college basketball players toward intentionally hurting their opponents on the court.
notes300 b. macquarrie, "youth football game turns ugly-in parking lot;' back to words
play, as defined above, is an appetite of lifelong significance for a  healthy male.
307 a. r.  somers, "violence, television, and the health of american youth," new  england journal of medicine 15 (1976), 811-817.
308 s. i. greenspan, playground politics: understanding the emotional life of  your school-age child (reading, mass.: perseus, 1993), 32.
boys' play, stanley greenspan points out in playground politics, is often more assertive and competitive than girls', and boys are encouraged by their parents to win, and sometimes kidded or chastised if they fail.
the adult "workaholic" is a person who has allowed work to overwhelm his personal life to the virtual disappearance of play.
if a parent realizes that he is pressuring a son into participating in a sport, and the son clearly doesn't enjoy it and wouldn't pursue it without the pressure, the parent might be inspired to think: what is going on here?
thus the player learns to become intensely engaged with another person, to stay engaged, and to disengage when the activity comes to an end.
his way of exploring an object he can  grasp-smelling it, putting it in his mouth, rubbing it against his skin-can  look almost ritualistic.
315 s. gilbert, "home trampoline injuries double," new york times (march 3, 1998), c7. 315 g. a. smith, "injuries to children in the  united states related to tram- polines, 1990-1995:
this five-part  definition of play offers guidelines for understanding boys' activities.
the average child in the united states between ages five and fifteen witnesses about 13,000 killings, most of them dramatized but occasionally an actual death.
the development of these values begins in the first years of a boy's life  as his play is influenced by interaction with his parents and other adults, and  with siblings.
and claps loudly at michael's victory.
clearly organized sports excite the upward social mobility strivings of  many families who see athletic prowess in their sons as a talent that will pull  the entire family into greater prominence and security.
the chapter on responsibility in bradley's values of the game has the subtitle, "no excuses-none."
not unexpectedly, several researchers have found a positive relationship between successful athletic participation and a child's self-esteem as an athlete.
organized sports from early childhood through middle childhood to adolescence, organized sports play a role in the lives of many children, having increased in popularity among children decade by decade in recent history.
several studies have shown that  children rated as popular by their teachers are the most likely to have parents  who have engaged in regular physical play with them.
they express their urgent needs and also express impulses that might be frowned upon if expressed directly-aggression, for example, or curiosity about the human body as dramatized in "playing doctor."
eleven and  twelve-year-olds often spend 40 percent of their free activity time engaged in  organized sports.
the development of play boys play long before organized sports come into their lives.
for boys, organized sports offer plenty of instruction, comparatively high  quality equipment, community recognition, institutionalized self-esteem for  those who do well, and a ready-made social group.
but everyone knew the process had to come to consensus.
children who are popular  with their peers are more likely to engage in high levels of physical play with  them, while rejected children seem to engage in physical play with more  reluctance.
the latter are perhaps easier to define: they are games of physical activity with rules that define the terms of engagement, the roles and limits on the players, and what players need to do to win.
even gentle pressure, hughes believes, can move activity outside the realm of play.
during his second year, a boy begins to show a preference to play with more  than one object at a time; he begins to realize the proper function of  objects-balls to be rolled or thrown, blocks to be stacked and knocked over;  and he begins symbolic play-for example, using any available material or toy at  hand as make-believe food to feed to his stuffed animal.
a phenomenon referred to as "doubling" often takes place in organized sports whereby the players conform to a frame of mind and a moral code imposed by an authoritarian coach.
their behavior will be scrutinized in reference to standards of behavior we refer to as sportsmanship.
certain activities, however, can begin as work and develop into play, and vice versa.
all of the issues apparent in adolescent sports have surfaced in rudimentary form much earlier in childhood.
if you were late for practice, even two minutes late, you were fined.
i should add, however,  that i have also seen mothers screeching in fury or triumph at ball games.
as adults they will watch these games in large numbers, but  they won't play them.
there was little, if any, community recognition  outside the group and their families.
mothers are more likely than fathers to follow the child's  lead and to emphasize the instructional possibilities in the child's play.
parents in two-parent homes share play  activities about equally for the next year; after that, fathers initiate more  play periods with preschoolers than mothers do.
as michael oriard, who played football through school years and then for notre dame and the kansas city chiefs reported, "from the fourth grade into my first year as a professional, i was to look to my coaches as figures of wisdom and authority whose pronouncements were gospel and whose expectations of me were to be met at whatever cost."
the premise is statistical.
in his years with the new york knicks, bradley played with  a similarly intelligent and disciplined team.
researchers today believe parten underestimated the  capacity of children as young as a year and a half to play cooperatively, and  they don't attribute social immaturity to solitary play to the extent parten  did; but they still use her typology.
(new york: john wiley and  sons, 1983), 693-774.
once that begins most of the issues grouped under the umbrella of sportsmanship exist in recognizable form.
sometimes he waits  until my mom arrives, and then he wants me to ask permission right away; and i  tell him to let her have a breather."
"do your friends ever want to jump on the trampoline when your mother is at work?"
it is true that  competition and the goal of winning introduce an (often ruinous) extrinsic  element into these activities, but it is also true that these activities have  many moments in which all of the defining elements of play appear to be in  effect.
when a boy plays fairly to win, and succeeds, he may  cause the loser displeasure, but that is somewhat incidental, and not  inevitable, in a competitive game; it's possible to lose and feel satisfied if  you've tried hard and been treated with respect by your opponent.
i don't remember any boys getting excluded  because they were untalented.
so in that period of time you can be mean and violent and dangerous.
the games caused scott so much anxiety  that he could scarcely eat his supper on the eve of a game.
as folk  wisdom puts it, "all work and no play makes jack a dull boy," but  most schoolboys think their play periods are too brief.
yet the effect of viewing violence in organized sports may still encourage the expression and acceptance of violence in other forms.
but it is hardly surprising that for every bill bradley there are several prominent athletes being prosecuted for drug violations and sexual assaults, being pursued, despite seven-figure salaries, for nonpayment of alimony and child support or in paternity suits.
a sports contest is between our guys and the other guys, not between the good guys and the bad guys.
as collegiate and professional sports have become an ever larger entertainment industry, swamping amateurism or making it a subsidized sham in sport after sport, organized sports have become talent selection systems feeding the ranks of high school and college teams and rosters as a prelude to the eventual recognition of the small number of players who will prosper in professional competitions.
but i believe there are many other coaches who will exacerbate the flaws.
and it almost  always works, for the players have wrapped up their identity in their  masculinity, which is eternally precarious for it not only depends on
in sociodramatic play, older preschoolers  often imitate the adults in their lives and unwittingly reveal a good deal of  how they perceive their home lives.
something akin to "doubling" also occurs between players or teams, and officials.
there is now little question that many boys-some very powerfully are affected by violence on the television they watch.
but more and more, teams cede all moral responsibility to the officials.
similarly, exposure to television has a mixed effect on children's play.
thirty million  school-age children participate in organized sports in the united states.
but one of the best teams signed him.
hughes also believes this kind of activity may help a child to read  the emotional states-happiness, fright, sadness, and so on-of others as they  are expressed or mimed in play, and to express his own emotions effectively  with facial expression and gesture.
another way of saying it is that play has a nonliteral aspect.
anyone who played with obvious intent to injure  others was eased out.
it is intrinsically motivated, pursued for the sheer  satisfaction it offers.
boys  with an early propensity to aggression feed on violence in the media and use it  to organize and stimulate their behavior.
so for the adolescent play begins to be less structured than it was for the preadolescent.
he played collegiate basketball at princeton where, with luck, there might be a player with potential to star as a professional once in a decade or a generation.
many adult hobbies other than conventional sports can be forms of play-woodworking or gardening, for example.
the experience can stimulate social maturity in a boy,  but it may also stimulate displays of aggression and resistance to adult  direction.
if a game got one-sided, it usually ended sooner because it ceased to be enough fun.
generally it wasn't talent or the lack thereof  that kept anyone on the sidelines.
dave meggyesy, a former football player, says "this sort  of attack on a player's manhood is a coach's doomsday weapon.
it's controlled violence, chris and brad explain'.
dad says, 'you beat me.
having  a good time becomes less defined as doing something with friends, more defined  as being together, enjoying time of one's own.
infants begin to play even in the first half-year of life.
when the play is over, however, the child is  admonished to 'settle down.'
he'd say things like 'we'll get them next time' and 'you can do  it."' the values that we associate with sportsmanship-including the  thoughtfulness and regard for safety articulated by evan-are inestimably  valuable aspects of male character.
and you shake hands and say good job and that resolves the problem.
is my son having  any pleasure playing this game or is he being forced against all of his  inclinations to work to realize his parents' dreams?
obviously male drives to establish dominance hierarchies and to test an  opponent's response to physical aggression are an inevitable component in  contact sports even when played by young boys, and in other sports as well.
there is now little question that many boys-some very powerfully are  affected by violence on the television they watch.
they are becoming interested in making things they can show to  others.
all work and no play makes jack senior a dull boy, too.
no one today is nailed to a crucifix and mauled by a caledonian bear before a screaming throng.
a good definition of play can be found in a much quoted paper by kenneth rubin and his colleagues.
play is the most characteristic activity of children when they aren't  eating or sleeping or doing assigned chores.
hughes suggests that self-control is among the skills developed by boys in  physical play with parents.
308 s. bok, mayhem: violence as public entertainment (reading,  mass.: perseus, 1998).
sports can support the development of a boy's character, or they can degrade it.
he smiled and i paid up.
for these reasons, i view sportsmanship as something a boy more likely  brings to the sport than vice versa.
in general, a boy's play will be more sophisticated when he is interacting with an adult than when he is playing alone.
michael's car crosses the finish line first.
but it isn't hard to find examples of the injudicious.
it is true that competition and the goal of winning introduce an (often ruinous) extrinsic element into these activities, but it is also true that these activities have many moments in which all of the defining elements of play appear to be in effect.
by the age of four, a boy's advancing fine motor skills usually affect his choice of playthings.
is what chris and brad were doing-trash-talking to inflame an opponent and  disrupt his concentration, which is common in professional, college, and high  school sports, and cut-blocking, which is a type of block apt to injure an  opponent's legs-the kind of pleasure that passes the standard of constituting  play?
left to their own devices, boys can develop impressive neighborhood conventions of sportsmanship.
"one guy keeps  asking and asking, and he gets mad, but i keep saying no.
organized sports from early childhood through middle childhood to adolescence, organized  sports play a role in the lives of many children, having increased in  popularity among children decade by decade in recent history.
he might  be concentrating on who is winning, on rooting for someone, in which case his  association with play is borderline; or he may be enjoying the skill of  players, in which case his activity is more closely related to play.
by the time he is a year  old, he might turn a game of pushing aside a pillow to find the toy hidden  under it into a game of simply repeatedly pushing aside the pillow-the means  becomes an end in itself.
yet another way to look at the decline in numbers of males  committed to organized sports is that they have turned to activities, as i've  just indicated, that promote less structured hanging out with more intense  relationships as the goal.
the local chief of police described the altercation as "stupid" and "inappropriate," but he also felt that the news media blew it out of proportion.
~"at princeton had was a remarkable coach, pete carril, who taught his intelligent squad to play a very deliberate, controlled style that enabled them to perform well against-and often beat-teams with much more natural talent but far less discipline.
neighborhood play needs parental attention and involvement that organized sports delegate to coaches and managers.
rules were kept as simple as possible because the players had to interpret and implement them, and no one wanted a game to break down over a rules controversy.
this criterion raises some difficult questions about group activities when what purports to be sport consists of someone enjoying making someone else miserable.
the infant will continuously repeat activities such as sucking or grasping that give him pleasure; he will bang on his high chair in the latter half of his first year because it amuses him or it appears to amuse someone else, or both.
officials are as human as players.
as we shall see, deciding what constitutes judicious proportion is not a  simple matter where sports are concerned.
but dad downplays ashley's interest in  competing and winning.
sure, bill, i know your mother's cousin called with an emergency  that your mother's nephew couldn't take care of,' holzman used to say, 'and it  rained on the highway and made it slick, after the earthquake damaged the  bridge, but still you're fined.'
because of the prominence of athletes  in the social hierarchies of teenagers, and the number of young male athletes  who offend against others, girls in particular, i think we need to impose some  rules about who is allowed to play in organized sports.
ashley has been getting lots of pieces, and she has spelled out more words than her father.
mothers spend more time with  them, but the fathers specialize more in playtime.
notes 300 b. macquarrie, "youth football  game turns ugly-in parking lot;' boston globe (october 17, 1998), p.l. 301  k. h. rubin, g. c. fein, and b. vandenberg, "play," in p. h.  mussen, ed., handbook of child psychology, 4th ed.
his attention is intense, his heartbeat steady, his demeanor  serious and often somewhat cautious.
bottles were thrown by the hometown crowd toward  the visitors.
brenda bredemeier and  david shields interviewed high school and college students-some of them  athletes, some not-asking them to comment on the moral dimension of athletic  and nonathletic situations.
times change, however, and his old team, the knicks, have been negotiating, while i've been writing this chapter, a contract with a professional player of undisputed talent who has been under suspension for several months for assaulting the coach of his former team during a practice session, choking him and threatening to kill him.
the home team was winless for the season, which didn't improve the mood of the parents and other locals who had gathered to watch and to cheer if the game gave them any opportunity.
and not just because they've lost the physical skills to play them enjoyably.
by the same token, i suppose, a fan who  is completely, vicariously caught up in watching a game might be thought of as  being at play.
dave meggyesy puts the best possible face on it when he says that  "football represents the core values of the status quo, and coaches and  school administrators want players to win adherence to these values, not only  on the football field but also in their private lives."
his increasing sociability enables him to make quite  elaborate plans with playmates for their play projects.
an  argument can be made for encouraging a mixture of same-gender and cross-gender  play, since the latter mitigates against gender stereotyping.
it  is usually considered the prerogative of the players in officiated contests to  accept as unearned blessings the benefits of officiating errors.
the average child in the  united states between ages five and fifteen witnesses about 13,000 killings,  most of them dramatized but occasionally an actual death.
they were the ones whom everyone expected to be in charge of a side or team, and to choose its members.
bill bradley suggests that the several values we refer to collectively as sportsmanship come from the game itself.
neighborhood play needs parental  attention and involvement that organized sports delegate to coaches and  managers.
for example, the asked what the interviewee thought a football player should do if asked by his coach to try to injure a key player on another team.
dramatized violence within the story line of a  film or comic book is usually set in a moral context, admittedly often in a  simplistic way, but there is some attempt to justify the violence within the  good guys/bad guys formulas.
excessive exposure to television can inhibit the quality of play of normally  imaginative children; but children who are relatively unimaginative may be  stimulated by watching the more intellectually stimulating children's programs  such as mr. rogers and sesame street.
the long tradition of cathartic  spectator violence, she notes with bloody examples, extends back to the roman  amphitheater where violence was used to entertain and also to encourage in  spectators an acceptance of official violence in the conquests and  administration of the empire.
and then it's  over.'
many adult hobbies other than conventional sports can be forms of  play-woodworking or gardening, for example.
since play of this sort is usually intensely stimulating, the child is highly aroused, and, more importantly, the high arousal level must be sustained for the duration of the play.
the increase was greatest after heavily publicized prizefights."
one lineman in the 1999 super bowl, denver broncos guard mark schlereth, has had twenty-two operations for sports injuries-seventeen times on his knees-and will have a twenty-third a week after the game.
the effects of  watching violence are both direct and indirect.
one view prevalent in the united  states is that aggressive contact sports such as professional football, hockey,  and boxing act as a catharsis for the release of hostile energy by athletes and  spectators, thus reducing incentives by the people caught up in them to revert  to crime or domestic violence.
but i got here on time."
few of the  elementary, middle school, and high school "stars" will excel in  collegiate sports, and few of those who play college varsity sports will find a  professional career awaiting them.
the games caused scott so much anxiety that he could scarcely eat his supper on the eve of a game.
two-year-olds have the advantage of greater mobility and language development.
it isn't all physically vigorous.
from “the men they will become" eli h. newberger, m.d. chapter 20 - play and sports
few of the elementary, middle school, and high school "stars" will excel in collegiate sports, and few of those who play college varsity sports will find a professional career awaiting them.
failure to display aggressiveness and self abandonment desired by coaches  and teammates subjects adolescent athletes frequently to suggestions that they  are feminine or homosexual.
it seemed to the hometown crowd that the officiating was faulty.
there is an  element of make-believe.
the degree of variation in quality from one day-care environment to  another makes it difficult to generalize.
310 b. j.  bredemeier and d. l. shields, "game reasoning and interactional morality," journal of genetic psychology 147 (1986), 257-275; and "moral growth among athletes and nonathletes: a comparative analysis  of males and females," journal of genetic psychology 147 (1986),7-18.
before boys can walk, they display a capacity to play, and before they  begin school they will be old enough in some communities to participate in  organized sports.
305 a. sagi, m. e. lamb, r. shoham, r.  dvir, and k. s. lewkowica, "parent- infant interaction in families on  israeli kibbutzim," international jour- nal of behavioral development 8  (1985), 273-284.306m. 306  m. parten, "social play among preschool  children," journal of abnor- mal and social psychology 28 (1933), 136-147.
physical play, including what we call roughhousing, begins in early infancy, peaks in most children's experience between the ages of one and four, and diminishes gradually.
they  play twenty-five different kinds of sports, directed by a volunteer army of 4.5  million coaches and 1.5 million administrators.
sexual experience often involves  times of play for the male who doesn't turn it into work, as is acknowledged in  speaking of foreplay and afterplay.
still, the aggressive behavior and tension generated by the drive to  win spoil the experience for many boys.
that such play is important to a boy's  development seems beyond doubt.
less than deserved attention is given, in my view, to the influence on boys  of violence in televised sports.
boys who didn't fit in were gradually excluded until~ they came to understand what stood between them and inclusion, and made an accommodation acceptable to the other boys.
physical play, including what we call  roughhousing, begins in early infancy, peaks in most children's experience  between the ages of one and four, and diminishes gradually.
the characterological difference between a  bill bradley and a latrell sprewell, the choker traded to the knicks, was  established long before either got a contract to play professional basketball,  or even college ball.
clearly organized sports excite the upward social mobility strivings of many families who see athletic prowess in their sons as a talent that will pull the entire family into greater prominence and security.
she is a single mother who works, so evan, an only child in  early adolescence, usually gets home a couple of hours before his mother; he  immediately checks in with her by telephone.
richard lapchick of northeastern university has told of going to see his twelve-year-old son's first hockey game.
"when i first started  playing," tatum told messner, "if i would hit a guy hard and he  wouldn't get up, it would bother me.
but, as myriam miedzian points out in boys will be boys, "an exhaustive study of heavyweight prizefights held between 1973 and 1978 and subsequent homicide statistics revealed that u.s. homicides increased by 12.46 percent directly after heavyweight championship prizefights.
'honey,' says dad,'that's very nice, but remember, it's just a game.'
students of  child development have taken pains to distinguish the activity of play from the  activity of exploration.
to me, the example doesn't point the way to exemplary character at all.
but rather than thinking of a boy as having a single  global self, it is probably more appropriate to think of a set of self-images.
athletes who do earn high moral reasoning scores are the least willing to display hostile aggression during a game."
in the parking lot after the game, there was a noisy confrontation between  the teams and their followers.
after the game another of the fathers came into the locker room, yanked  his son up off the bench where he was sitting, and yelled: "you fucking  son of a bitch; if you'd hit that guy against the wall you wouldn't have lost  this game."
"no doctor in his right mind would ever pass me for a physical if his job were on the line," mark says, "but this is the nfl.
another way of saying it is that play has a nonliteral  aspect.
bottles were thrown by the hometown crowd toward the visitors.
311 b. j.  bredemeier, "moral reasoning and the perceived legitimacy of in- tentionally injurious sport acts;' 1985.
they talk about the past  weekend's game, where they crushed their opponent.
players seldom perform  without error in contests, and officials make mistakes of judgment and  observation.
a national  epidemic," pediatrics 101 (1998), 406-412.
the coaches are teachers and strategists, but  just as much they are motivators; some use rather bizarre methods to provoke  the level of enthusiasm they desire in a team.
as two-year-olds, she noted, children engage mostly in  solitary play and onlooker play.
~"at princeton had was a remarkable coach, pete carril, who taught his  intelligent squad to play a very deliberate, controlled style that enabled them  to perform well against-and often beat-teams with much more natural talent but  far less discipline.
for example, the asked what the interviewee thought  a football player should do if asked by his coach to try to injure a key player  on another team.
one  lineman in the 1999 super bowl, denver broncos guard mark schlereth, has had  twenty-two operations for sports injuries-seventeen times on his knees-and will  have a twenty-third a week after the game.
sportsmanship, in a sense, consists of a set of values and  techniques to keep human nastiness from ruining play.
the values that are being reinforced in organized sports are not so much the traditional values of "sportsmanship" but the core values of a society that has made sports into a business: individual competitiveness; a facade of self confidence; the demonstration of earnest effort; a provisional willingness to bear pain and injury for the greater good of the company, yet an apprehension that loyalty is pretty much a one-way street, not to be reciprocated if the company loses confidence in the value of the individual; indifference to those who lose out in competition; willingness to be aggressive and to injure others in the interests of one's team.
some psychologists believe that these competitive activities fail to qualify as play as defined at the beginning of this chapter, and that play as an activity declines swiftly in boys' lives once competitive games with rules establish dominance in free activity time.
307 g. slaby and g. r. quarfoth, "effects of television on the  developing child," in b. w. camp, ed., advances in behavioral pediatrics  (green- wich, conn.: johnson associates, 1988), 225-266.
the local announcer broadcast obscenities directed at the officials over the public address system during the game, for which behavior he was barred from the announcer's booth for the remainder of the season.
while the schoolboy was intensely preoccupied with belonging to a peer group, the adolescent begins to single out other individuals with whom to develop close friendships.
the exemplary coach certainly  exists who can take a troubled boy and guide him into a u-turn.
they were the ones whom everyone expected to be  in charge of a side or team, and to choose its members.
the games of the schoolboy with their often elaborate rules become fiercely  competitive.
each boy can assimilate what pleases him.
but more and more, teams cede all moral responsibility to the  officials.
316 bradley, values  of the game, 121-122.
thus the player learns to become intensely engaged  with another person, to stay engaged, and to disengage when the activity comes  to an end.
the system is very steeply pyramidal in every sport.
part of the equation is that the player is also supposed to be indifferent to his own injuries; but he may remain anxious about being injured himself the sight of football players kneeling together in prayer in a stadium after a game in which they have often tried to injure others suggests the irony that afflicts sports where competitive values have overwhelmed other values.
the national alliance for youth sports says that 45 percent of children have been called names and insulted while playing sports (the number may be low, judging from the anecdotes i have already offered) and that 70 percent of children have stopped playing competitive sports by age thirteen because all the fun has gone out of it.
if you didn't make the plane, you  paid your own way.
the infant will  continuously repeat activities such as sucking or grasping that give him  pleasure; he will bang on his high chair in the latter half of his first year  because it amuses him or it appears to amuse someone else, or both.
if a  parent realizes that he is pressuring a son into participating in a sport, and  the son clearly doesn't enjoy it and wouldn't pursue it without the pressure,  the parent might be inspired to think: what is going on here?
each competitor is trying to navigate his car around  the couch and under chairs to the finish line.
there is a gradual  decrease in the number of different play activities engaged in per week.
attempts to injure the opposing quarterback, hockey brawls, bean balls and dugout emptying, spitting on officials, flagrant fouls in basketball, none of this has even a shred of moral justification.
less than deserved attention is given, in my view, to the influence on boys of violence in televised sports.
much of it consists of "hanging out" together, watching television and videos, listening to music, going to dances and parties.
if you didn't make the plane, you paid your own way.
evan and margaret also appreciate what he  has gained from his relationships with coaches in organized sports.
this is not what taking responsibility or refusing to make excuses for oneself is about.
306 day care environments k. h. rubin, t. l. maioni, and m. hornung,  "free play behaviors in middle- and lower-class preschoolers: parten and  piaget revisited," child development 47 (1976), 414-419.
they are better able to wait their turn, share, and cooperate.
this aspect most distinguishes play from work, for even when work is intrinsically pleasurable, it is also extrinsically motivated: to earn income, to enhance status, to support a household, among other motivations.
312 i. berkow, "the high  priest of hoop hysteria;'new york times (may 14,1988), 53.
ashley has been getting lots of pieces, and she has  spelled out more words than her father.
parents in two-parent homes share play activities about equally for the next year; after that, fathers initiate more play periods with preschoolers than mothers do.
dramatized violence within the story line of a film or comic book is usually set in a moral context, admittedly often in a simplistic way, but there is some attempt to justify the violence within the good guys/bad guys formulas.
any serious antisocial  behavior should prompt a serious and careful review of a boy's suitability for  what has to be seen as an unelected leadership position.
there is a culturally defined division of labor here, with mothers specializing in some aspects of child care and fathers specializing in other aspects, including play.
the games of the schoolboy with their often elaborate rules become fiercely competitive.
adults see them as more malleable and cooperative than younger boys, and they are more willing to share play materials and take turns with their peers.
however, it is also true that athletic achievement in organized sports rewards  more boys with community recognition than any other activity, and that star  athletes enjoy as high, or higher, status among peers as any other adolescent  group.
they imply attainment of an admirable civility or courteousness, regard both for rules and for the welfare of everyone playing the game, self-control when something upsetting or frustrating has occurred, a capacity to win without overvaluing the victory, and to lose without taking it overly to heart, and a sense of proportion that focuses much of the time on the sheer pleasure of the game.
generally it wasn't talent or the lack thereof that kept anyone on the sidelines.
so  in that period of time you can be mean and violent and dangerous.
the development of these values begins in the first years of a boy's life as his play is influenced by interaction with his parents and other adults, and with siblings.
exploration comes first, logically.
that is worrisome enough in public arcade machines but more  sobering when one knows that millions of kids are playing in the privacy of  their homes with parental consent.
when playing with male peers, boys show more exploratory zeal, and they also are likely to engage in forms of play that are traditionally gender-typed.
but sports violence doesn't have that context.
three-year-olds, to some extent, but four-year-olds even more, display  associative play: each child is doing his or her own thing, but there is  sharing, lending of toys and materials, and taking turns.
play, as defined above, is an appetite of lifelong significance for a healthy male.
"one guy keeps asking and asking, and he gets mad, but i keep saying no.
the rule margaret and evan have agreed to is that no one uses the trampoline unless she is at home.
they remember them as tense and conflictual, so they trade them in for golf, hiking, jogging, swimming, fishing-trying to recover activities that might be playful for them.
in communities where boyhood  sports are very highly organized, a boy may feel that he has little choice but  to participate if he wants to feel deeply attached to his peers; everyone he  wants to pal around with is playing team sports.
left to their own  devices, boys can develop impressive neighborhood conventions of sportsmanship.
three-year-olds show that they are identifying with adults more than  two-year-olds do.
parents can also use this definition to monitor their own play with their children.
the adult  "workaholic" is a person who has allowed work to overwhelm his  personal life to the virtual disappearance of play.
we'd play  until we were tired, and then we'd sit around and talk, and then maybe get up  and play some more.
athletes  who do earn high moral reasoning scores are the least willing to display  hostile aggression during a game."
this is not what taking  responsibility or refusing to make excuses for oneself is about.
violence, i'm afraid, does appear to breed violence, and the forum in which it is most frequently bred outside the home is on the field of sport.
finally, play has to be actively engaged in by a person-physically or psychologically or both.
ashley says in frustration.
attempts to injure the opposing quarterback, hockey brawls, bean balls and  dugout emptying, spitting on officials, flagrant fouls in basketball, none of  this has even a shred of moral justification.
the recent olympics scandals show how this reaches to the top echelons.
when the play is over, however, the child is admonished to 'settle down.'
chronic whiners were eased out because the games were meant to be fun, and a good whiner could take the euphoria out of a game very rapidly.
suppose, to underline the shallowness and rigidity of the rule, we turn the story around and have bill bradley, arriving punctually for practice, report to holzman, "boy, the roads were a sheet of ice this morning
research in sweden and in an israeli kibbutz did not show the mother-father differences observed in the united states, so these patterns are by no means universal.
two-year-olds have the advantage of greater mobility and language  development.
there is an element of make-believe.
the social development of children's play was analyzed as early as the 1930s by mildren parten.
sportsmanship is always given lip service in youth sports, and often there is some substance to it; but at the same time there is support for nastiness: overaggressiveness, demonizing the opponent, deliberately injuring others, taking foolish risks, and exaggerating the significance of winning.
"do your friends ever want to jump on the trampoline when your mother is  at work?"
if a boy  demonstrates superior talent in organized sports, but also displays behavior  that is offensive, his behavior is sometimes tolerated in order to keep his  talent available to the team.
there were arguments about how specific plays were to be  governed by the rules-heated arguments at times-
the score was not close.
to say it another way, two-year-olds are more interested in process, three-year-olds are becoming interested in results.
the same thing happened at lake  braddock-i cut-blocked this guy and he said, "come on,
not unexpectedly, several researchers have found a  positive relationship between successful athletic participation and a child's  self-esteem as an athlete.
305 k. sandqvist,  "sweden's sex-role scheme and commitment to gender equality," in s.  lewis, d. n. lzraeli, h. hottsmans, eds., dual-earner families: international  perspectives (london: sage, 1992).
organized sports make those who fail at the early levels feel unwarrantedly  discouraged, and it makes many of those who succeed exaggeratedly  self-regarding.
on a saturday afternoon a few months ago, a visiting junior league football  team of middle-school-age boys dealt a loss to a team from a suburb not more  than twenty miles from where i live.
this five-part definition of play offers guidelines for understanding boys' activities.
(but) when i was a sophomore in high school, first game, i knocked out two quarterbacks, and people loved it.
i saw a fine kind of parent-child interaction when i visited evan and his mother.
dave meggyesy puts the best possible face on it when he says that "football represents the core values of the status quo, and coaches and school administrators want players to win adherence to these values, not only on the football field but also in their private lives."
reading and being read to can be play.
if his values and  choices suggest that he will use his prestige and power to exploit others, he  should probably be barred from organized sports until, through a process of  education, noncompetitive athletics, community service, and counseling, he is  able to demonstrate values of respect and fairness that would serve him well  under the stress of competition.
308 personal communication, lisa licata, vice  president, national alliance for youth sports, 2050 vista parkway, west palm  beach, fl 3341.
he can't bend  over to putt a golf ball, and he can't crawl on the floor to play with his  kids, but he's still going to put his body on the line in the super bowl.
leaders were always  among the best players but weren't necessarily the very best; they were,  however, natural leaders whose influence we instinctively recognized and  honored.
organized sports make those who fail at the early levels feel unwarrantedly discouraged, and it makes many of those who succeed exaggeratedly self-regarding.
the more boys that try  to master a given sport, the more likely it is that those with superior natural  talent and trainability will be identified.
but what is play, and what are sports?
still lacking fine motor skills, they may enjoy the look and feel of play materials more than the things they may create with them.
five-year-olds, having  begun to show signs of logical thinking, reflect a stability in their play  missing in most younger boys.
thou shalt be punctual.
all work and no play makes jack senior a  dull boy, too.
the ambiguity of organized sports for boys is that they often confusingly support both sides of the equation.
this kind of play also permits role reversal, as when a child who feels relatively helpless about something in real life may play a make-believe role with greater power in that situation.
adults see them as more malleable and cooperative  than younger boys, and they are more willing to share play materials and take  turns with their peers.
[obscenity], try  again."
the values that are  being reinforced in organized sports are not so much the traditional values of  "sportsmanship" but the core values of a society that has made sports  into a business: individual competitiveness; a facade of self confidence; the  demonstration of earnest effort; a provisional willingness to bear pain and  injury for the greater good of the company, yet an apprehension that loyalty is  pretty much a one-way street, not to be reciprocated if the company loses  confidence in the value of the individual; indifference to those who lose out  in competition; willingness to be aggressive and to injure others in the  interests of one's team.
the players have implicitly abandoned responsibility for their own actions to the direction of coaches and public sentiment.
i should add, however, that i have also seen mothers screeching in fury or triumph at ball games.
"no doctor in his right mind  would ever pass me for a physical if his job were on the line," mark says,  "but this is the nfl.
boys more than girls were inclined to endorse such acts, and older, experienced  athletes more than novices.
yet boys grow up watching their elders respond approvingly or indifferently to injuries to the "others" in broadcast sports.
is my son having any pleasure playing this game or is he being forced against all of his inclinations to work to realize his parents' dreams?
he can't bend over to putt a golf ball, and he can't crawl on the floor to play with his kids, but he's still going to put his body on the line in the super bowl.
talking with him reminded me of the patterns of my childhood.
research in sweden and in an israeli kibbutz did not show the mother-father  differences observed in the united states, so these patterns are by no means  universal.
baking an actual cake may be fun, but it is work that happens to be fun; playing house and baking a pretend cake is play; building an imaginary house with lego is play.
there was a high level of agreement that  in everyday life one should try to be considerate, but in sports, because of  the emphasis on winning, one needn't be very concerned about others.
she is a single mother who works, so evan, an only child in early adolescence, usually gets home a couple of hours before his mother; he immediately checks in with her by telephone.
"one of my coaches," evan says, "was always encouraging when people made mistakes.
"when i first started playing," tatum told messner, "if i would hit a guy hard and he wouldn't get up, it would bother me.
however, it is also true that athletic achievement in organized sports rewards more boys with community recognition than any other activity, and that star athletes enjoy as high, or higher, status among peers as any other adolescent group.
the values of sportsmanship-including a suppleness to make wise choices in  demanding circumstances-are values that boys bring to sports as much as, or  more than, they learn from sports.
in the parking lot after the game, there was a noisy confrontation between the teams and their followers.
the local chief of police described the altercation as  "stupid" and "inappropriate," but he also felt that the  news media blew it out of proportion.
the more boys that try to master a given sport, the more likely it is that those with superior natural talent and trainability will be identified.
he loves to put things into other things and take them out again.
four year-olds can sign up for midget hockey, six-year-olds for little league baseball.
students of child development have taken pains to distinguish the activity of play from the activity of exploration.
a sports contest is between our  guys and the other guys, not between the good guys and the bad guys.
they found, as hughes reports, that: "people who have the greatest interest in highly aggressive contact sports, or have participated in them for the longest amounts of time, tend to score lower on tests of moral reasoning....
if you were late for practice, even two minutes late, you  were fined.
if you weren't on the bus at the designated time, it left without you.
organized team sports continue to enjoy intense commitment among adolescent males, but for a declining number of them.
he is stressing the symbolic aspect of the experience.
some days the kids (mostly boys, but-unlike my childhood  days-also some girls who like sports) congregate at brett's house, other days  at the home of another member of the crowd.
307 d. m. zuckerman and b.  s. zuckerman, "television's impact on chil- dren," pediatrics 75  (1985), 233-240.
the old way offered less instruction, and the equipment was less adequate, so boys had to invent game sites in yards and streets and share equipment.
if you weren't on the bus  at the designated time, it left without you.
eventually, parents of the visiting team charged, the assistant coach of the home team deliberately accelerated his car toward a thirteen-year-old visiting player, forcing him to jump quickly aside to escape being hit.
307 commission on youth and violence, violence and youth:  psychology's re- sponse (washington, d.c.: american psychological association,  1993).
back to words web design by flyte new media email web master
part of the equation is that the player is also supposed to be indifferent  to his own injuries; but he may remain anxious about being injured himself the  sight of football players kneeling together in prayer in a stadium after a game  in which they have often tried to injure others suggests the irony that  afflicts sports where competitive values have overwhelmed other values.
a phenomenon referred to as "doubling"  often takes place in organized sports whereby the players conform to a frame of  mind and a moral code imposed by an authoritarian coach.
average folks try to find  ways to interrupt work with moments of play; even crumpling paper into a ball  and sending it to the wastebasket via an air hook worthy of kareem qualifies as  play.
it is an interesting tack because sports postmortems are as rife with lame excuses as those in any other kind of human endeavor; and the ability to take responsibility for one's actions when they haven't turned out well is a benchmark of character.
the question is: 'where does  sportsmanship come from?
but do we really want to say that an activity, even if it intentionally causes displeasure or injury to another player, is still play because it gives the inflicter pleasure?
we'd play until we were tired, and then we'd sit around and talk, and then maybe get up and play some more.
evan volunteered that the issue is one of safety.
but what is play, and what are  sports?
there  such factors as dominance hierarchies, individual aggressiveness, and group  prejudices continually threaten the integrity of play as we've defined it in  this chapter.
three-year-olds show that they are identifying with adults more than two-year-olds do.
the transition can occur in both directions, and a specific event may switch back and forth several times.
at the field, the kids  bound out of the car, happy to see their teammates.
no one today is nailed to a crucifix and mauled by a caledonian bear before  a screaming throng.
each competitor is trying to navigate his car around the couch and under chairs to the finish line.
for boys, organized sports offer plenty of instruction, comparatively high quality equipment, community recognition, institutionalized self-esteem for those who do well, and a ready-made social group.
back to words chapter 20 - play and sports on a saturday afternoon a few months ago, a visiting junior league football team of middle-school-age boys dealt a loss to a team from a suburb not more than twenty miles from where i live.
five-year-olds, having begun to show signs of logical thinking, reflect a stability in their play missing in most younger boys.
the son's team lost by one goal.
mere preference for the same play activities isn't as sufficient  a basis for friendship as it once was; adolescents are looking for  complementary personalities.
sometimes he waits until my mom arrives, and then he wants me to ask permission right away; and i tell him to let her have a breather."
in the inclination of males to be directive in their play with children, we see a trend that we will come to later.
thus a player who in ordinary situations is  well-mannered and friendly may become extremely aggressive and callous about  inflicting injuries when he is within the team culture.
as folk wisdom puts it, "all work and no play makes jack a dull boy," but most schoolboys think their play periods are too brief.
the transition can occur in both directions, and a  specific event may switch back and forth several times.
even given as large a pool of  children as the united states has to draw upon, there remain sports in which  american athletes consistently do poorly in international competition compared  to athletes from much smaller countries where those sports are emphasized.
on red holzman's teams, there were few rules, but  they were rigid.
since neighborhood sports were self-governed, boys themselves dealt with all the issues of fair play, and i have no doubt that the process was more educational from a character standpoint than many boys find in organized sports today.
in communities where boyhood sports are very highly organized, a boy may feel that he has little choice but to participate if he wants to feel deeply attached to his peers; everyone he wants to pal around with is playing team sports.
his increasing sociability enables him to make quite elaborate plans with playmates for their play projects.
ramparts press, 1970).
playing a musical instrument can be play-should be play, unless the child feels pressured into it.
more exposure leads to more  violent behavior, to a greater tolerance of violence, to a view of the world as  a mean and dangerous place where violence is warranted because normal.
in the inclination of males to be directive in their  play with children, we see a trend that we will come to later.
if fathers don't provide it, others can, with comparable consequences for a boy's well being.
a playmate, someone to play with regularly, is deeply meaningful for a child.
some days the kids (mostly boys, but-unlike my childhood days-also some girls who like sports) congregate at brett's house, other days at the home of another member of the crowd.
they imply attainment of an admirable  civility or courteousness, regard both for rules and for the welfare of  everyone playing the game, self-control when something upsetting or frustrating  has occurred, a capacity to win without overvaluing the victory, and to lose  without taking it overly to heart, and a sense of proportion that focuses much  of the time on the sheer pleasure of the game.
those first experiences in the delight of play, accompanied by the inevitable tensions of sharing and cooperating with others, stand behind a boy as he begins to participate in schoolyard play with a peer group.
a boy who is indifferent to what he is doing and what  is going on about him is not at play.
but everyone knew the process  had to come to consensus.
the experience can stimulate social maturity in a boy, but it may also stimulate displays of aggression and resistance to adult direction.
i suspect they don't play adult basketball and baseball  because such games were ruined for them as kids.
blocks aren't any longer just for stacking; they can be made by the three-year-old into buildings and bridges that loosely represent the actual world.
sportsmanship is always given lip service  in youth sports, and often there is some substance to it; but at the same time  there is support for nastiness: overaggressiveness, demonizing the opponent,  deliberately injuring others, taking foolish risks, and exaggerating the  significance of winning.
play is the most characteristic activity of children when they aren't eating or sleeping or doing assigned chores.
there is a culturally  defined division of labor here, with mothers specializing in some aspects of  child care and fathers specializing in other aspects, including play.
all of  the issues apparent in adolescent sports have surfaced in rudimentary form much  earlier in childhood.
yet another way to look at the decline in numbers of males committed to organized sports is that they have turned to activities, as i've just indicated, that promote less structured hanging out with more intense relationships as the goal.
in these relationships, communication is valued  and practiced.
(evan and his mother, incidentally, are right to be concerned.
fergus  hughes, who has written incisively about play, recalls a first grader named  scott who had no interest in competitive sports but was pressured by both  parents to join a school soccer team.
there is decreased interest in games with rules.
when the environment is, at least in some ways, unfamiliar, the infant tries to  figure it out.
if a game got one-sided, it  usually ended sooner because it ceased to be enough fun.
michael messner, a sociologist, once  interviewed art tatum, an oakland raiders linebacker whose tackle in one game  broke darryl stingley's neck, leaving him paralyzed.
not  exhibiting fear of any kind on the playing field, but is also something that  can be given and withdrawn by a coach at his pleasure, " without doubt,  this denigration of the feminine contributes to the potential for male athletes  to be manipulative and exploitative in their relationships with real females.
the more likely truth is that boys  thrive on certain play elements in their lives, including a lot of play that is  physically active.
during his second year, a boy begins to show a preference to play with more than one object at a time; he begins to realize the proper function of objects-balls to be rolled or thrown, blocks to be stacked and knocked over; and he begins symbolic play-for example, using any available material or toy at hand as make-believe food to feed to his stuffed animal.
on the other hand, dad and michael's 10-year-old sister, ashley, are playing junior scrabble.
by "others" i mean mothers or  hired child care or relatives, or older siblings who've been shown how to do it  with proper supervision.
play is a central part of group day care, with, studies show, mixed findings as to how beneficial the experience may be.
this kind of play also permits role reversal, as when a child who  feels relatively helpless about something in real life may play a make-believe  role with greater power in that situation.
what the researchers found was that both athletes and nonathletes believed a different and lower set of moral principles applied to sporting events than applied to ordinary everyday events.
the implication of this is gloomy for boys raised by a single mother.
the values of sportsmanship-including a suppleness to make wise choices in demanding circumstances-are values that boys bring to sports as much as, or more than, they learn from sports.
play is a central  part of group day care, with, studies show, mixed findings as to how beneficial  the experience may be.
because of the prominence of athletes in the social hierarchies of teenagers, and the number of young male athletes who offend against others, girls in particular, i think we need to impose some rules about who is allowed to play in organized sports.
if fathers don't provide it, others can, with comparable  consequences for a boy's well being.
their most  typical play is solitary, or else onlooker play in which they watch another  child nearby.
but, as myriam miedzian points out in boys will  be boys, "an exhaustive study of heavyweight prizefights held between 1973  and 1978 and subsequent homicide statistics revealed that u.s. homicides  increased by 12.46 percent directly after heavyweight championship prizefights.
but watching is unlikely ever to be the equivalent of playing.
this criterion raises some  difficult questions about group activities when what purports to be sport  consists of someone enjoying making someone else miserable.
another coach from iowa painted a chicken gold to represent the rival "golden eagles" and had his team kick it around the field to "get the eagle."
the coach who gets across the importance of punctuality introduces order into many a young life....
his way of exploring an object he can grasp-smelling it, putting it in his mouth, rubbing it against his skin-can look almost ritualistic.
eventually, parents of the visiting team charged, the assistant  coach of the home team deliberately accelerated his car toward a  thirteen-year-old visiting player, forcing him to jump quickly aside to escape  being hit.
but i believe  there are many other coaches who will exacerbate the flaws.
another rule is that other kids can't come into the house to play while his mother is at work.
rules were kept as simple as possible because the players had to  interpret and implement them, and no one wanted a game to break down over a  rules controversy.
his attitude was 'no excuses-none!'
his self-image as an athlete may be high based on his successful participation  in the local soccer or football league, but this self-confidence may not be  equaled by his self-image as a student or as a member of his class or family.
when  playing with male peers, boys show more exploratory zeal, and they also are  likely to engage in forms of play that are traditionally gender-typed.
in chapter 18, 1 referred to brett.
the question is: 'where does sportsmanship come from?
fathers  do more roughhousing, and they also are more inclined to direct the child's  play activities.
chris is still giddy with  success: 'i got into a fight with a center and that was the best time i ever  had-i was talking so much trash, we were crushing springfield-the center  started crying and he was swinging at my helmet with bare hands'.
much of it consists of "hanging out" together,  watching television and videos, listening to music, going to dances and  parties.
there was a high level of agreement that in everyday life one should try to be considerate, but in sports, because of the emphasis on winning, one needn't be very concerned about others.
if officials make errors that everyone acknowledges, few players or  coaches from the side that has benefited volunteer to correct the situation.
bradley gave an example  from which he drew the subtitle of the chapter.
an observer can't help but note the irony that the sports into which most boys are organized are not, by and large, the games they will play as adults.
four-year-olds begin to demonstrate cooperative play where two or more children engage in play in which participants have to fulfill complementary tasks toward a common goal.
that such play is important to a boy's development seems beyond doubt.
in my conversations with boys, sports came up over and over again.
the effects of watching violence are both direct and indirect.
the head coach for the home team was ejected from the game for challenging a referee's decision.
in many sports  it is the habit of players and coaches who believe an official has made an  error to their disadvantage to react in extravagant accusatory fashion.
sure, bill, i know your mother's cousin called with an emergency that your mother's nephew couldn't take care of,' holzman used to say, 'and it rained on the highway and made it slick, after the earthquake damaged the bridge, but still you're fined.'
we  risk boys' making use of violence in contexts other than sport: toward  intimates, and in antisocial acts committed by individuals or groups.
and claps loudly at  michael's victory.
if officials make errors that everyone acknowledges, few players or coaches from the side that has benefited volunteer to correct the situation.
chronic whiners were eased out because the games were  meant to be fun, and a good whiner could take the euphoria out of a game very  rapidly.
ira berkow once reported in the new york times that the men's basketball coach at the university of indiana bobby knight "put a box of sanitary napkins in the locker of one of his players so that the player would get the point that knight considered him less than masculine."
some writers on raising boys are currently emphasizing fathers' roles, especially in play, suggesting that there is a correlation between extensive father-involvement in a boy's upbringing and his later success academically and professionally.
anyone who played with obvious intent to injure others was eased out.
but i asked a contemporary of mine what he remembered of the games of our summers and after-schools and weekends.
brenda bredemeier measured the attitudes of high school and college  basketball players toward intentionally hurting their opponents on the court.
in my own childhood and youth, i played far more music than sports.
there is a point to emphasize here.
a good definition of play can be found in a much quoted paper by kenneth  rubin and his colleagues.
there is an expansion of  fantasy in their play and blurring of the distinction between fantasy and  reality.
and not just because they've lost the physical skills to  play them enjoyably.
it is an interesting tack because sports  postmortems are as rife with lame excuses as those in any other kind of human  endeavor; and the ability to take responsibility for one's actions when they  haven't turned out well is a benchmark of character.
until a child is about twenty months of age, the mother is the principal  adult playmate of american children.
as collegiate and professional sports have become an ever larger  entertainment industry, swamping amateurism or making it a subsidized sham in  sport after sport, organized sports have become talent selection systems  feeding the ranks of high school and college teams and rosters as a prelude to  the eventual recognition of the small number of players who will prosper in  professional competitions.
to me, the example  doesn't point the way to exemplary character at all.
as we shall see, deciding what constitutes judicious proportion is not a simple matter where sports are concerned.
richard lapchick of northeastern university has told of going  to see his twelve-year-old son's first hockey game.
in general, a boy's  play will be more sophisticated when he is interacting with an adult than when  he is playing alone.
bill bradley suggests that the several values we refer  to collectively as sportsmanship come from the game itself.
failure to display aggressiveness and self abandonment desired by coaches and teammates subjects adolescent athletes frequently to suggestions that they are feminine or homosexual.
w-ww.nays.org 308 decline in play m. e. ewing and v.  seefeldt, "american youth and sports participation: why they participate,  why they quit, how they feel about winning, how motivations differ, what adults  can do" (north palm beach, fla.: athletic footwear association, 1990).
does participation in organized sports contribute, as is often claimed, to a boy's character by promoting such values as former united states senator and new york knickerbocker forward bill bradley recently enumerated in values of the game: passion, discipline, selflessness, respect, perspective, courage, leadership, responsibility, resilience, and imagination?
cited  in miedzian, boys will be boys, 199.
they are becoming interested in making things they can show to others.
the expansion of fantasy in the three-year-olds is being countered with a move back to realism by the five-year-olds.
or a parent can use such a definition to gauge when an activity has ceased to be play, and tactful adult intervention might be in order.
'those are good words, honey,' dad says calmly.
thirty million school-age children participate in organized sports in the united states.
their behavior will be scrutinized in reference to standards  of behavior we refer to as sportsmanship.
fathers do more roughhousing, and they also are more inclined to direct the child's play activities.
the function of play changes in fundamental ways from the preadolescent to  the adolescent.
michael messner, a sociologist, once interviewed art tatum, an oakland raiders linebacker whose tackle in one game broke darryl stingley's neck, leaving him paralyzed.
if you get run over, blocked or something like that, you want to get back.
boys who didn't fit in were gradually excluded until~ they came to  understand what stood between them and inclusion, and made an accommodation  acceptable to the other boys.
the coach who gets across the importance of punctuality introduces order  into many a young life....
mothers spend more time with them, but the fathers specialize more in playtime.
the coaches are teachers and strategists, but just as much they are motivators; some use rather bizarre methods to provoke the level of enthusiasm they desire in a team.
the decline of play the intrinsic delight of play certainly has been overwhelmed by extrinsic  considerations in much of the organized sports we see for boys in the united  states.
on the other hand, dad and michael's 10-year-old sister, ashley, are  playing junior scrabble.
on red holzman's teams, there were few rules, but they were rigid.
the same thing happened at lake braddock-i cut-blocked this guy and he said, "come on,
so i did it again,says chris'.
thus a player who in ordinary situations is well-mannered and friendly may become extremely aggressive and callous about inflicting injuries when he is within the team culture.
while the schoolboy was intensely preoccupied with belonging to  a peer group, the adolescent begins to single out other individuals with whom  to develop close friendships.
while both  fathers and mothers engage in their sons' competitions vicariously, it is  mostly men who have imposed many of the extrinsic values of their occupations  on what should be intrinsically pleasurable children's play, and who bear much  of the responsibility for this invasion of childhood.
the advent of interactive computer  games does seem to represent a quantum leap beyond passively watching others  commit mayhem and murder on the screen, because in many computer games the  player becomes a participant in the unfolding action and commits dramatized  violence himself.
they  found, as hughes reports, that: "people who have the greatest interest in  highly aggressive contact sports, or have participated in them for the longest  amounts of time, tend to score lower on tests of moral reasoning....
leaders were always among the best players but weren't necessarily the very best; they were, however, natural leaders whose influence we instinctively recognized and honored.
is what chris and brad were doing-trash-talking to inflame an opponent and disrupt his concentration, which is common in professional, college, and high school sports, and cut-blocking, which is a type of block apt to injure an opponent's legs-the kind of pleasure that passes the standard of constituting play?
a playmate, someone to play with regularly, is deeply  meaningful for a child.
in these relationships, communication is valued and practiced.
one of their main sports issues is the trampoline in the backyard.
the advent of interactive computer games does seem to represent a quantum leap beyond passively watching others commit mayhem and murder on the screen, because in many computer games the player becomes a participant in the unfolding action and commits dramatized violence himself.
they are organized in largest numbers into baseball, football, soccer, hockey, and basketball.
the  point is also to win.
(but) when i was a sophomore in high  school, first game, i knocked out two quarterbacks, and people loved it.
sexual experience often involves times of play for the male who doesn't turn it into work, as is acknowledged in speaking of foreplay and afterplay.
310 b. bradley,  values of the game (new york: workman publishing com- pany, 1998).
while both fathers and mothers engage in their sons' competitions vicariously, it is mostly men who have imposed many of the extrinsic values of their occupations on what should be intrinsically pleasurable children's play, and who bear much of the responsibility for this invasion of childhood.
children who are popular with their peers are more likely to engage in high levels of physical play with them, while rejected children seem to engage in physical play with more reluctance.
they express their urgent needs and also  express impulses that might be frowned upon if expressed directly-aggression,  for example, or curiosity about the human body as dramatized in "playing  doctor."
the philosopher sissela bok takes the analysis a step further in her recent book mayhem: violence as public entertainment.
but  watching is unlikely ever to be the equivalent of playing.
beyond the misbehavior of individual athletes there lies an  undercurrent of corruption among the administrators and officials of organized  sports.
facing his 23rd operation, broncos guard mark schlereth is still going  strong," boston globe (january 28, 1999), ci.
yet boys  grow up watching their elders respond approvingly or indifferently to injuries  to the "others" in broadcast sports.
what the researchers found was that both athletes and nonathletes believed  a different and lower set of moral principles applied to sporting events than  applied to ordinary everyday events.
blocks aren't any longer  just for stacking; they can be made by the three-year-old into buildings and  bridges that loosely represent the actual world.
breaking the link between masculinity and violence (new york: doubleday,  1991), 198.
excessive exposure to television can inhibit the quality of play of normally imaginative children; but children who are relatively unimaginative may be stimulated by watching the more intellectually stimulating children's programs such as mr. rogers and sesame street.
if you get run over, blocked or  something like that, you want to get back.
boys more than girls were inclined to endorse such acts, and older, experienced athletes more than novices.
307 m. miedzian, boys will be  boys:
'i like the talking part, but at the end of the game you come  together
michael's car crosses the finish  line first.
a high school coach in wisconsin  gave a "hit of the week" award to the player who appeared from  analysis of game films to have made the most vicious hit on an opposing  football player.
by "others" i mean mothers or hired child care or relatives, or older siblings who've been shown how to do it with proper supervision.
it isn't quite enough to play for the thrill of the action.
beyond the misbehavior of individual athletes there lies an undercurrent of corruption among the administrators and officials of organized sports.
by the age of four, a boy's advancing fine motor skills usually affect his  choice of playthings.
as the more athletically talented  are selected and rewarded with status and recognition, the less talented or  committed drop out.
four year-olds can sign up for  midget hockey, six-year-olds for little league baseball.
the more likely truth is that boys thrive on certain play elements in their lives, including a lot of play that is physically active.
304 parent/child play m. e. lamb, a. m. frodi, c. p.  hwang, m. frodi, and j. steinberg, "effects of gender and caretaking  role on parent-infant interaction," in m. e. lamb, ed., nontraditional  families (hillsdale, n.j.: erlbaum, 1982).
as a boy matures, work intrudes more and more into his daily life;  school is defined as a place of work interrupted by play periods.
he'd say things like 'we'll get them next time' and 'you can do it."' the values that we associate with sportsmanship-including the thoughtfulness and regard for safety articulated by evan-are inestimably valuable aspects of male character.
trampolines caused 249,000 accidents, and the annual frequency of injury doubled, between 1990 and 1995; they are now among the leading causes of childhood injury.)
until a child is about twenty months of age, the mother is the principal adult playmate of american children.
as the more athletically talented are selected and rewarded with status and recognition, the less talented or committed drop out.
they remember them as tense  and conflictual, so they trade them in for golf, hiking, jogging, swimming,  fishing-trying to recover activities that might be playful for them.
perhaps early  exploration is the precursor of what a person will eventually regard as work.
he played  collegiate basketball at princeton where, with luck, there might be a player  with potential to star as a professional once in a decade or a generation.
301 f. p. hughes, children, play, and development,  2nd ed.
in fact, some teams have given him physicals and turned him  down based on the findings.
there is a gradual decrease in the number of different play activities engaged in per week.
by the time he is a year old, he might turn a game of pushing aside a pillow to find the toy hidden under it into a game of simply repeatedly pushing aside the pillow-the means becomes an end in itself.
play is also, by definition, freely chosen by the participants.
and it almost always works, for the players have wrapped up their identity in their masculinity, which is eternally precarious for it not only depends on not exhibiting fear of any kind on the playing field, but is also something that can be given and withdrawn by a coach at his pleasure, " without doubt, this denigration of the feminine contributes to the potential for male athletes to be manipulative and exploitative in their relationships with real females.
the logistics of organized sports lead to a lot of parents standing  on the sidelines watching others work with their kids, waiting to take them  home again.
an observer can't help but note the irony that the sports into which most  boys are organized are not, by and large, the games they will play as adults.
even gentle  pressure, hughes believes, can move activity outside the realm of play.
no status, but plenty of fun.
boys' play, stanley greenspan points out in playground politics, is often  more assertive and competitive than girls', and boys are encouraged by their  parents to win, and sometimes kidded or chastised if they fail.
in his years with the new york knicks, bradley played with a similarly intelligent and disciplined team.
~when circumstances promote it, children of  that and later ages will often display parallel play-children playing  separately at the same activities in the same place and at the same time.
or a parent can use such a  definition to gauge when an activity has ceased to be play, and tactful adult  intervention might be in order.
311 b. ryan, "cut blocker:
playing a  musical instrument can be play-should be play, unless the child feels pressured  into it.
eleven and twelve-year-olds often spend 40 percent of their free activity time engaged in organized sports.
if they want you to pass the physical, you will pass  the physical."
the degree of variation in quality from one day-care environment to another makes it difficult to generalize.
mothers are more likely than fathers to follow the child's lead and to emphasize the instructional possibilities in the child's play.
coaches and parents often assert that participation in organized sports contributes to self-esteem, particularly among boys who are more likely than girls to define themselves in terms of athletic accomplishment.
some writers on raising boys are  currently emphasizing fathers' roles, especially in play, suggesting that there  is a correlation between extensive father-involvement in a boy's upbringing and  his later success academically and professionally.
does participation in organized sports contribute, as is often claimed, to  a boy's character by promoting such values as former united states senator and  new york knickerbocker forward bill bradley recently enumerated in values of  the game: passion, discipline, selflessness, respect, perspective, courage,  leadership, responsibility, resilience, and imagination?
in many sports it is the habit of players and coaches who believe an official has made an error to their disadvantage to react in extravagant accusatory fashion.
301 hersch, a  tribe apart, 138.
the exemplary coach certainly exists who can take a troubled boy and guide him into a u-turn.
times change, however, and his  old team, the knicks, have been negotiating, while i've been writing this  chapter, a contract with a professional player of undisputed talent who has  been under suspension for several months for assaulting the coach of his former  team during a practice session, choking him and threatening to kill him.
three-year-olds, to some extent, but four-year-olds even more, display associative play: each child is doing his or her own thing, but there is sharing, lending of toys and materials, and taking turns.
if his values and choices suggest that he will use his prestige and power to exploit others, he should probably be barred from organized sports until, through a process of education, noncompetitive athletics, community service, and counseling, he is able to demonstrate values of respect and fairness that would serve him well under the stress of competition.
the social development of children's play was analyzed as early as the  1930s by mildren parten.
307 d. phillips,  "the impact of mass media violence on u.s. homicides," american  sociological review (august 1983), 560-568.
the logistics of organized sports lead to a lot of parents standing on the sidelines watching others work with their kids, waiting to take them home again.
dave meggyesy, a former football player, says "this sort of attack on a player's manhood is a coach's doomsday weapon.
an argument can be made for encouraging a mixture of same-gender and cross-gender play, since the latter mitigates against gender stereotyping.
suppose, to underline the shallowness and rigidity of the  rule, we turn the story around and have bill bradley, arriving punctually for  practice, report to holzman, "boy, the roads were a sheet of ice this  morning
but rather than thinking of a boy as having a single global self, it is probably more appropriate to think of a set of self-images.
evan and margaret also appreciate what he has gained from his relationships with coaches in organized sports.
a boy who is indifferent to what he is doing and what is going on about him is not at play.
to say it another way, two-year-olds are more interested in process,  three-year-olds are becoming interested in results.
here is what, in essence, he said: what organized  sports has substantially displaced was an informal network of neighborhood or  interneighborhood activities that boys organized themselves.
there were arguments about how specific plays were to be governed by the rules-heated arguments at times-
conversation can be play.
talking with him reminded me of the patterns of  my childhood.
more exposure leads to more violent behavior, to a greater tolerance of violence, to a view of the world as a mean and dangerous place where violence is warranted because normal.
that is worrisome enough in public arcade machines but more sobering when one knows that millions of kids are playing in the privacy of their homes with parental consent.
and i had no tread on my tires.
(needham heights, mass.: allyn and bacon, 1995).
the players have  implicitly abandoned responsibility for their own actions to the direction of  coaches and public sentiment.
ira berkow once reported in the new york times that  the men's basketball coach at the university of indiana bobby knight "put  a box of sanitary napkins in the locker of one of his players so that the  player would get the point that knight considered him less than  masculine."
this aspect most distinguishes play from work, for even  when work is intrinsically pleasurable, it is also extrinsically motivated: to  earn income, to enhance status, to support a household, among other  motivations.
what we used to  call "pickup games."
yet the effect of viewing violence in organized sports may  still encourage the expression and acceptance of violence in other forms.
312 d.  meggyesy, out of their league (berkeley, cal.:
'dad, i spelled out six more words than you!'ashley says excitedly.
parents can also use this definition to monitor  their own play with their children.
the national alliance for youth sports  says that 45 percent of children have been called names and insulted while  playing sports (the number may be low, judging from the anecdotes i have  already offered) and that 70 percent of children have stopped playing  competitive sports by age thirteen because all the fun has gone out of it.
any serious antisocial behavior should prompt a serious and careful review of a boy's suitability for what has to be seen as an unelected leadership position.
those first experiences in the delight of play, accompanied by  the inevitable tensions of sharing and cooperating with others, stand behind a  boy as he begins to participate in schoolyard play with a peer group.
since neighborhood sports were self-governed, boys themselves dealt with  all the issues of fair play, and i have no doubt that the process was more  educational from a character standpoint than many boys find in organized sports  today.
one view prevalent in the united states is that aggressive contact sports such as professional football, hockey, and boxing act as a catharsis for the release of hostile energy by athletes and spectators, thus reducing incentives by the people caught up in them to revert to crime or domestic violence.
chris is still giddy with success: 'i got into a fight with a center and that was the best time i ever had-i was talking so much trash, we were crushing springfield-the center started crying and he was swinging at my helmet with bare hands'.
parents often view these  activities as ways of keeping boys' free time occupied so they won't get into  trouble inventing activities on their own.
hughes suggests that self-control is among the skills developed by boys in physical play with parents.
the local announcer broadcast obscenities directed at the officials  over the public address system during the game, for which behavior he was  barred from the announcer's booth for the remainder of the season.
it isn't  females, predominantly, who have built the elaborately overorganized system of  sports for boys in the united states, mimicking professional sports with  uniforms, leagues, intricate scheduling, commercial sponsors, media coverage,  maintenance of performance records, selection of all-stars, seasons leading to  playoffs, and enormous emphasis on competitiveness and winning.
but dad downplays ashley's interest in competing and winning.
the decline of play the intrinsic delight of play certainly has been overwhelmed by extrinsic considerations in much of the organized sports we see for boys in the united states.
still, the aggressive behavior and tension generated by the drive to win spoil the experience for many boys.
the result was that most of us turned up early.
"one  of my coaches," evan says, "was always encouraging when people made  mistakes.
there was little, if any, community recognition outside the group and their families.
drawing him into organized sports as a  rehabilitative gesture because he will learn "sportsmanship" there  places unwarranted expectations on those sports.
but do we really want to say that an activity, even if it intentionally  causes displeasure or injury to another player, is still play because it gives  the inflicter pleasure?
when a boy plays fairly to win, and succeeds, he may cause the loser displeasure, but that is somewhat incidental, and not inevitable, in a competitive game; it's possible to lose and feel satisfied if you've tried hard and been treated with respect by your opponent.
even given as large a pool of children as the united states has to draw upon, there remain sports in which american athletes consistently do poorly in international competition compared to athletes from much smaller countries where those sports are emphasized.
there such factors as dominance hierarchies, individual aggressiveness, and group prejudices continually threaten the integrity of play as we've defined it in this chapter.
sportsmanship, in a sense, consists of a set of values and techniques to keep human nastiness from ruining play.
the latter are perhaps easier to define: they are games of physical  activity with rules that define the terms of engagement, the roles and limits  on the players, and what players need to do to win.
the long tradition of cathartic spectator violence, she notes with bloody examples, extends back to the roman amphitheater where violence was used to entertain and also to encourage in spectators an acceptance of official violence in the conquests and administration of the empire.
my concern in this chapter is chiefly with the adolescent, but a few words are in order about the childhood activities that precede sports and sportsmanship.
as a boy matures, work intrudes more and more into his daily life; school is defined as a place of work interrupted by play periods.
the head  coach for the home team was ejected from the game for challenging a referee's  decision.
the point is also to win.
it is usually considered the prerogative of the players in officiated contests to accept as unearned blessings the benefits of officiating errors.
bradley recalls a rule for which no exception was ever granted-a rule that was worthwhile but hardly worth making into the eleventh commandment:
and red holzman smiles and says, "that's my boy."
the chapter on responsibility in bradley's values of the game has the  subtitle, "no excuses-none."
311 m. messner, "vvhen bodies are weapons: masculinity and violence  in sport," international review of sociology of sport, august 1990.
researchers today believe parten underestimated the capacity of children as young as a year and a half to play cooperatively, and they don't attribute social immaturity to solitary play to the extent parten did; but they still use her typology.
in sociodramatic play, older preschoolers often imitate the adults in their lives and unwittingly reveal a good deal of how they perceive their home lives.
his self-image as an athlete may be high based on his successful participation in the local soccer or football league, but this self-confidence may not be equaled by his self-image as a student or as a member of his class or family.
everybody loved it * " in boys' organized sports, coaches have immense influence.
a fourth characteristic of play is its symbolic aspect.
certain activities, however, can begin as work and develop into  play, and vice versa.
they are organized in largest numbers into baseball, football, soccer, hockey,  and basketball.
several studies have shown that children rated as popular by their teachers are the most likely to have parents who have engaged in regular physical play with them.
as michael  oriard, who played football through school years and then for notre dame and  the kansas city chiefs reported, "from the fourth grade into my first year  as a professional, i was to look to my coaches as figures of wisdom and  authority whose pronouncements were gospel and whose expectations of me were to  be met at whatever cost."
the best games were those with evenly matched sides and close scores; then everyone felt good at the end, because with a lucky break here or there the game could credibly have gone the other way.