one california study  that tracked english language learners starting in kindergarten found that, on  average, they took 3–5 years to develop oral proficiency.
research team, edvantia, answers: sometimes people have bought into myths about educating ells.
the research that has been conducted, however, has been on a fairly small scale, and more research is needed before we will really have good answers to questions about testing accommodations that can help ells succeed.
there is also the mistaken belief that because a student is reclassified as english proficient, he or she does not need additional esl support services.
an educator from ks writes: do ell students drop out more than others?
a school board member from la writes: can testing accommodations provide better information about what ells really know and can do?
to be effective,  they may need professional development and other supports.
an educator from capitol heights, md writes: what states have more success with ell students in their academic programs in elementary, middle, and high school?
for example,  some people may fear that teaching a child in his or her native language may  keep the child from learning english.
a school board member from ny writes: the research review says that instruction in the child's first language can  be beneficial.
research team, edvantia, answers: that may be true of immigrant students, but more than half of the ells in  u.s. schools were born in the united states.
your best resources might come from your community in  the form of bilingual volunteers or aides who can help bridge the language gap.
the rest speak any of 400 other languages at home.
to be effective, they may need professional development and other supports.
i understand that half of the ells were born in the  united states, what are the other half's formal education backgrounds?
research team, edvantia, answers: you have hit upon the difference between "social english," the kind you might use on the playground and in the supermarket, and "academic english," the kind of english used in classrooms and textbooks.
we know that latino students drop out at higher rates, although not all  latino students are ell.
patte barth, director, center for public education, answers: you're right that california and texas have by far the largest number of  ell students.
for example, some people may fear that teaching a child in his or her native language may keep the child from learning english.
but what linguistic studies actually show is that young children are more likely to develop more native-like pronunciation–not that they learn the language faster.
a parent from  milford, ct writes: isn't true that most ell students are not only trying to learn the language  but also learn our culture, since they are coming here from another country?
the right questions to ask for a full picture of the quality of your schools.
for more  insight, see the center's review of research  on ells, prepared  by edvantia, an education research and development not-for-profit corporation.
an association staff member from washington, dc writes: what percent of ell students are spanish speaking?
you  might want to refer to the what works clearinghouse which just evaluated  effective elementary ell programs.
our school district enrolls ell students speaking approximately  30 different languages.
an educator from columbus, oh writes:an educator from columbus, oh writes: why is it that oral proficiency often doesn't translate to academic proficiency?
students can begin to pick up on social english very quickly.
patte barth, director, center for public education, comments: welcome everyone!
one california study that tracked english language learners starting in kindergarten found that, on average, they took 3–5 years to develop oral proficiency.
for teachers, the challenge is often finding ways to overcome communication and cultural barriers.
and each of these subjects has its own unique  vocabulary.
an  educator from il writes: does the time it takes to learn english vary by the child's country of  origin?
for example, about half of the students from mexico and central america have parents who did not complete high school.
according to nclb, assessments of english language arts and/or reading  cannot be used to measure students' english language proficiency, nor can  assessments of english language proficiency be used to measure students'  achievement in english language arts or reading.
a school board member from ny writes: the research review says that instruction in the child's first language can be beneficial.
while the research is pretty persuasive about the benefit of some first language instruction, in language diverse districts like yours it can be really difficult to provide qualified teachers for each of the languages your students bring to the classroom.
a school board member  from md writes: do you know the percent of ells who have little or no formal education in  their native countries?
this points to the importance of providing explicit  vocabulary instruction to ells in the content areas.
bye! home > instruction > what research says about english  language learners > english language learners:
research team, edvantia, answers: many factors influence the length of time an individual child takes to learn english.
research team, edvantia, answers: large california studies have shown differences among students from various countries, but these differences were related to ethnic-group differences in family income and parent education.
another important student background factor is the amount of formal  schooling the student has experienced in his or her first language.
an educator from il writes: does the time it takes to learn english vary by the child's country of origin?
for example, a table in the lunchroom is not the same thing as a table in mathematics.
on november 1, 2007, the  center for public education hosted a live online chat on the topic.
but the prior educational experience of ell students is something that school districts should collect to better serve their ell students.
research team, edvantia, answers: large california studies have shown differences among students from various  countries, but these differences were related to ethnic-group differences in  family income and parent education.
as is often the case, socioeconomic status matters.
research team, edvantia, answers: many factors influence the length of time an individual child takes to  learn english.
patte barth, director, center for public education, answers: several researchers have found this to be true, but it's hard to find real  data.
for example, there are 24 different tests being used to measure english proficiency.
vietnamese is a distant second at 2 percent of all ell students.
there is also the mistaken belief that because a  student is reclassified as english proficient, he or she does not need  additional esl support services.
i was  wondering what other states, besides those on the border, are seeing more ell  students?
research team, edvantia, answers:
this points to the importance of providing explicit vocabulary instruction to ells in the content areas.
in fact, fred genessee and colleagues concluded that an  emphasis on academic english is likely to yield a payoff in student achievement  "even in english-only school settings."
research team, edvantia, answers: having a math teacher who is bilingual is less important than having one  who is trained in esl and knows how to help ell students master the field's  academic language and content.
but we do have information about the level of education parents of  ell students have.
let's chat about english language learners.
center for public education answers: about 4 out of 5 ell students has spanish as his or her first language.
for example, words such as odd, root, and field have a special meaning in math.
an educator from myrtle beach, sc writes: which is a more effective practice, bilingual or english-only instruction?
what  research says about english language learners > english language learners:  archived chat |   print english language learners:  archived chat recent focus on academic achievement coupled with the persistent  achievement gap between english language learners (ell) and non-ells have  caused researchers and educators to take a closer look at how to help ells  master oral english and academic content as well.
another important student background factor is the amount of formal schooling the student has experienced in his or her first language.
our school district enrolls ell students speaking approximately 30 different languages.
family immigrant status is one of  the many factors that influence a student's acquisition of english.
do  people bring some of their preconceived ideas into the debate about how to best  teach english to ell students?
for ell and non-ell students alike, parents can help students succeed in school by letting their child know that they think school is important, ensuring regular attendance, and involving them in learning activities at home.
and each of these subjects has its own unique vocabulary.
research team, edvantia, answers: you have hit upon the difference between "social english," the  kind you might use on the playground and in the supermarket, and "academic  english," the kind of english used in classrooms and textbooks.
your best resources might come from your community in the form of bilingual volunteers or aides who can help bridge the language gap.
patte barth, director, center for public education, answers: you're right that california and texas have by far the largest number of ell students.
many  small studies and meta-analyses of small studies have reached the same  conclusion.
as mentioned previously, some people may think that young children pick up the language quicker than adolescents or adults.
many small studies and meta-analyses of small studies have reached the same conclusion.
in fact, about half of all secondary ell students are  foreign-born, and the rest were born in the united states.
for example,  there are 24 different tests being used to measure english proficiency.
research team, edvantia, answers: in 1997, the national research council found that family involvement is one component of effective schooling for ell students.
an  educator from myrtle beach, sc writes: which is a more effective practice, bilingual or english-only instruction?
these states account  for two-thirds of all immigrants, and 69 percent of all elementary school  children, according to the 2000 census.
some of the new technologies might also help.
for more insight, see the center's review of research on ells, prepared by edvantia, an education research and development not-for-profit corporation.
an educator from columbus, oh writes: are state assessments, like the ohio achievement tests, proper tools to measure english proficiency?
a school board member from mn writes: is there an achievement gap between ell students and english-speaking students in other subjects like math and science?
research on the effectiveness of different types of ell programs has shown that student achievement in the content areas can differ significantly based on the type of ell program in which the student is enrolled.
what research says about english language learners: at a glance english language learners: archived chat preparing english language learners for academic success what nclb says about ell students what research says about testing accommodations for ells top five languages by state limited english proficient students by grade level and state english language learners: references you might also be interested in what research says about english language learners: at a glance what nclb says about ell students special education:
a school board member  from id writes: will focusing on academic english specifically for ells take away from  other students?
research team, edvantia, answers: that may be true of immigrant students, but more than half of the ells in u.s. schools were born in the united states.
teachers need to know that students need 12 to 14 exposures to these and other words commonly used in math (e.g., determine, whereas, factor).
research team, edvantia, answers: we don't really know the answer to this question, and it is unlikely that  the states are consistently gathering data that would answer the question at  this point.
an educator from md writes: is it harder for high school students who come in not speaking english to become english proficient, than younger ell students?
but we do have information about the level of education parents of ell students have.
usually ells begin to learn enough "social  english" rather quickly to get by on the playground.
research team, edvantia, answers: having a math teacher who is bilingual is less important than having one who is trained in esl and knows how to help ell students master the field's academic language and content.
i understand that half of the ells were born in the united states, what are the other half's formal education backgrounds?
according to nclb, assessments of english language arts and/or reading cannot be used to measure students' english language proficiency, nor can assessments of english language proficiency be used to measure students' achievement in english language arts or reading.
in fact, about half of all secondary ell students are foreign-born, and the rest were born in the united states.
however, they  took 4–7 years to develop proficiency in "academic english,"  the sort of language used in textbooks and classrooms.
an educator from md writes: is it harder for high school students who come in not speaking english to  become english proficient, than younger ell students?
as is often the case, socioeconomic status  matters.
this is especially true of students with a strong  academic background in their native country or students whose parents are well  educated.
a parent from dc writes: how long should it take for a non-english speaking kindergartner to learn english?
a parent from tn  writes: we're seeing a huge influx of students from other countries.
a school board member from va writes: what role do parents play in helping their ell students succeed in school?
is it important for teachers to work with the parents of ell kids?
patte barth, director, center for public education, answers: it's difficult to say because states use very different criteria to  classify ell students and reclassify them as english proficient.
what other languages are  typically spoken by ell students?
an educator from  capitol heights, md writes: what states have more success with ell students in their academic programs  in elementary, middle, and high school?
vietnamese is a distant second  at 2 percent of all ell students.
the  rest speak any of 400 other languages at home.
a parent from dc  writes: how long should it take for a non-english speaking kindergartner to learn  english?
however, we also know that struggling students and  students who are not engaged in school are more likely to drop out, so keeping  kids feeling like they are part of the school culture and on track  academically should help ell kids, too.
do people bring some of their preconceived ideas into the debate about how to best teach english to ell students?
while the  research is pretty persuasive about the benefit of some first language  instruction, in language diverse districts like yours it can be really  difficult to provide qualified teachers for each of the languages your students  bring to the classroom.
sometimes we forget that learning math involves much more than numbers, or that science has a vocabulary of its own.
research team, edvantia, answers: research has consistently shown that adolescents and adults learn academic english more quickly, presumably because they have more background knowledge and a more developed frame of reference.
but what linguistic studies actually show is that young  children are more likely to develop more native-like pronunciation–not  that they learn the language faster.
an educator from columbus, oh writes: why is it that oral proficiency often doesn't translate to academic  proficiency?
a recent meta-analysis from the center on instruction found that allowing students to use an english dictionary had the greatest effect, but the researchers noted that "for this accommodation to be successful in the testing situation, students must have experience with it during regular instruction."
however, we also know that struggling students and students who are not engaged in school are more likely to drop out, so keeping kids feeling like they are part of the school culture and on track academically should help ell kids, too.
we sometimes expect young children to learn a second language more quickly  because of the often-repeated belief that "it's easier for children than  it is for adults."
a recent meta-analysis from the  center on instruction found that allowing students to use an english dictionary  had the greatest effect, but the researchers noted that "for this  accommodation to be successful in the testing situation, students must have  experience with it during regular instruction."
patte barth, director, center for public education, answers: several researchers have found this to be true, but it's hard to find real data.
phone: (703) 838-6722 | fax: (703)  548-5613     terms of use ©2009 center for public education  centerforpubliced@nsba.org
do other factors have an effect?
research on the  effectiveness of different types of ell programs has shown that student  achievement in the content areas can differ significantly based on the type of  ell program in which the student is enrolled.
please check the center website for more  information on this topic.
for teachers, the challenge is often  finding ways to overcome communication and cultural barriers.
often, a student who seems to be a fairly fluent speaker in social settings may struggle in the classroom.
archived chat also in this guide...
however, large-scale comparisons between bilingual education and english-only programs have not been possible because the way a school or district labels its program is not necessarily an accurate description of what happens in the classroom.
also check the list of resources posted on  the center for public education website for more information about effective  programs.
site directory |  media  | about |  en español 1680 duke st.,  alexandria, va 22314 |
media | contact | en español | site directory | about learn about:high school | 21st century | homework all issues policies  evaluating performance success stories organizing a school staffing and students instruction public education pre-kindergarten the public | school boards |  policymakers | educators home > instruction >
we sometimes expect young children to learn a second language more quickly because of the often-repeated belief that "it's easier for children than it is for adults."
this is especially true of students with a strong academic background in their native country or students whose parents are well educated.
patte barth, director, center for public education, answers: it's difficult to say because states use very different criteria to classify ell students and reclassify them as english proficient.
that said, we must remember that if an ell student is in high school and not speaking english, that student could be an immigrant who must adjust to a new culture while trying to master advanced academic work.
research is showing that direct, explicit instruction in literacy strategies, including vocabulary development, helps students learn in all content areas.
how can we provide first-language instruction for all  of these children?
research team, edvantia, answers: research has consistently shown that adolescents and adults learn academic  english more quickly, presumably because they have more background knowledge  and a more developed frame of reference.
as mentioned previously, some people may  think that young children pick up the language quicker than adolescents or  adults.
but nearly every state is seeing growth in ell populations, including tennessee.
a superintendent from tx writes: is it important for students to have bilingual teachers, even in subjects like math and science?
the research that has been  conducted, however, has been on a fairly small scale, and more research is  needed before we will really have good answers to questions about testing  accommodations that can help ells succeed.
however, they took 4–7 years to develop proficiency in "academic english," the sort of language used in textbooks and classrooms.
teachers can honor the home cultures of ell students, make ell parents feel welcome, and show them what to do at home to support their child's education.
on the other hand, some students who do not speak english very well may  perform well academically.
a school board member from mn  writes: is there an achievement gap between ell students and english-speaking  students in other subjects like math and science?
research team, edvantia, answers: in their massive review of the literature, the national literacy panel on language-minority children and youth concluded that the inclusion of some first-language instruction and support seems to have long-term benefits.
in fact, fred genessee and colleagues concluded that an emphasis on academic english is likely to yield a payoff in student achievement "even in english-only school settings."
also check the list of resources posted on the center for public education website for more information about effective programs.
but the prior  educational experience of ell students is something that school districts  should collect to better serve their ell students.
please check the center website for more information on this topic.
for example, a table in the lunchroom is not the same thing as a  table in mathematics.
read more the center for public education is an initiative of the  national school boards association.
but nearly  every state is seeing growth in ell populations, including tennessee.
after all, we use english to teach and discuss these subjects.
however, large-scale comparisons between bilingual education and  english-only programs have not been possible because the way a school or  district labels its program is not necessarily an accurate description of what  happens in the classroom.
center for public education answers: you raise one of the great challenges for teaching ell students.
a school board member from id writes: will focusing on academic english specifically for ells take away from other students?
research team, edvantia, answers: several studies have found linguistic modifications of test questions with excessive language demands to be effective.
teachers can honor the home cultures of  ell students, make ell parents feel welcome, and show them what to do at home  to support their child's education.
teachers need to know that students need 12 to  14 exposures to these and other words commonly used in math (e.g., determine,  whereas, factor).
a school board member from la writes: can testing accommodations provide better information about what ells  really know and can do?
read more all in  favor why is it important to vote in local school board elections and  questions you should ask about candidates.
research team, edvantia, answers: several studies have found linguistic modifications of test questions with  excessive language demands to be effective.
a superintendent from tx  writes: is it important for students to have bilingual teachers, even in subjects  like math and science?
i was wondering what other states, besides those on the border, are seeing more ell students?
yes, and this should not be surprising.
for example, about half of the students from mexico and  central america have parents who did not complete high school.
new york, florida, illinois, and new jersey are seeing big growth.
that said, we must remember that if an  ell student is in high school and not speaking english, that student could be  an immigrant who must adjust to a new culture while trying to master advanced  academic work.
usually ells begin to learn enough "social english" rather quickly to get by on the playground.
on november 1, 2007, the center for public education hosted a live online chat on the topic.
research team, edvantia, answers: definitely not.
patte barth, director, center for public education, comments: thanks for joining our chat.
often, a  student who seems to be a fairly fluent speaker in social settings may struggle  in the classroom.
a school board member from md writes: do you know the percent of ells who have little or no formal education in their native countries?
and a special thanks to the researchers at edvantia for participating.
for ell and non-ell students  alike, parents can help students succeed in school by letting their child know  that they think school is important, ensuring regular attendance, and involving  them in learning activities at home.
after all, we use english to teach  and discuss these subjects.
an educator from columbus, oh writes: are state assessments, like the ohio achievement tests, proper tools to  measure english proficiency?
a parent from milford, ct writes: isn't true that most ell students are not only trying to learn the language but also learn our culture, since they are coming here from another country?
testing and assessment standardized tests and their impact on schooling: q&a high-stakes testing and effects on instruction: at a glance pre-kindergarten investing in high-quality pre-kindergarten education  yields benefits for kids, school, and communities.
on the other hand, some students who do not speak english very well may perform well academically.
research is showing that  direct, explicit instruction in literacy strategies, including vocabulary  development, helps students learn in all content areas.
an educator from nc writes: are there misconceptions that can cloud policy around ell students?
a parent from tn writes: we're seeing a huge influx of students from other countries.
research team, edvantia, answers: we don't really know the answer to this question, and it is unlikely that the states are consistently gathering data that would answer the question at this point.
in california, about one in five students is ell.
family immigrant status is one of the many factors that influence a student's acquisition of english.
research team, edvantia, answers: in their massive review of the literature, the national literacy panel on  language-minority children and youth concluded that the inclusion of some  first-language instruction and support seems to have long-term benefits.
recent focus on academic achievement coupled with the persistent achievement gap between english language learners (ell) and non-ells have caused researchers and educators to take a closer look at how to help ells master oral english and academic content as well.
how can we provide first-language instruction for all of these children?
you might want to refer to the what works clearinghouse which just evaluated effective elementary ell programs.
these states account for two-thirds of all immigrants, and 69 percent of all elementary school children, according to the 2000 census.
for example, words such as odd, root, and field  have a special meaning in math.
sometimes we forget that learning math involves much more  than numbers, or that science has a vocabulary of its own.
new york,  florida, illinois, and new jersey are seeing big growth.
research team, edvantia, answers: in 1997, the national research council found that family involvement is one  component of effective schooling for ell students.
and a special thanks to the researchers at  edvantia for participating.
we know that latino students drop out at higher rates, although not all latino students are ell.
www.centerforpubliceducation.org.
what other languages are typically spoken by ell students?