and judging by the comments posted on these stories (see http://www.pcpro.co.uk/news/364501/exposed-file-sharing-lawyers-collect-fines-using-dormant-company ), many of our readers appreciate the journalism, too.
so what will serious apple os developers use to actually develop the apps that apple will get a 30% cut of?
yet, apple’s already discontinued its xserve range of servers and the company barely speaks of its corporate customers these days: it’s almost exclusively fixated on the consumer market.
being able to see 3 or 4 windows of information at the same time and assemble that information into a single new document, without having to continually interrupt myself, by flipping another app full screen, then flipping back is something i would be unwilling to give up.
i’d rather concentrate on my work than on what the os is up to or remembering what arcane key combination to use.
it’s not too late guys!
gavmeister  says: june 7th, 2011 at 4:37 pm @ron that’s an easy one:
but i suspect i am articulating what some of your colleagues are thinking privately.
it was easier to install, use and repair.
barry collins editor @gavmeister http://www.techradar.com/news/computing/apple/the-future-is-ios-not-mac-os-x-963230 @barry thanks for the response (except link doesn’t work – needs a space before the end bracket).
but the end of osx as a platform that people buy in to.
ios dev  says: june 7th, 2011 at 5:14 pm
as apple has proven time and time again, they are notoriously hard to predict.
and it reflects the change taking place in “it”.
i don’t know anyone that worked out how to access multi-tasking or organise their apps into folders without asking a friend or looking it up online.
you can see why a transition to ios is appealing to apple.
but i promise not to bother you again in comments.
if you get this right, attention is focused not on low-level machine programming, but on exposed hardware functions to higher-level programming.
the only part of apple’s portfolio where ios doesn’t make sense  is in the high-end.
until there is a realistic way to develop ios apps on ios devices the answer will remain “no”.
persoanlly i’d live to have a customized final cut pro keyboard with a “refresh view” button instead of having to remember shift f12.
if it wasn’t for the shiny hardware that it runs on no one would give it a second glance these days.
@ian: the author gives his reasons for the conclusion.
for photo editing, research and content creation, the ios interface is too restrictive.
at the moment, i have e-mail, twitter, web browser, visio and skype open in separate windows on one monitor, on the other i have project, excel and word open
so, the question of whether ios will kill off osx is really meaningless.
apple’s legendary usability seems to have become a casualty as new features have been shoehorned into the mobile os.
isn’t it actually the only platform?
the unix core is making this possible.
but it’s not working for me.
the evidence increasingly suggests not.
maybe it would take the form of a glass keyboard that presents buttons specific to that app.
there are not too many people who develop software for apple.
how will ios apps be developed?
rob  says: june 7th, 2011 at 5:25 pm @ian: the author gives his reasons for the conclusion.
i agree with barry and paul on this.
i think adobe’s ideas, where they use the ipad as an extension to the computer for creating content is good.
my 8 core machine takes a couple of seconds to process a new image in lightroom.
this was very smart of apple!
as we move towards more on-line services, i think, for a lot of users, a  simplified interface will be fine and ios or a web browser interface will work.
for simple “non productive” tasks, such as web browsing or emailing, a tablet os is fine.
danny thomas  says: june 7th, 2011 at 2:30 pm as apple has proven time and time again, they are notoriously hard
in apple’s case, mac os x is the perfect platform for developing the apps that drive iphone and ipad sales.
but, as i’ve previously mentioned in pc pro’s mobile & wireless column, since that initial release it all seems to have gone a bit pete tong.
beware of false prophets foretelling the demise of apple.
the point about mac os x being the sole development platform for ios is an  excellent one.
gavmeister  says: june 7th, 2011 at 2:11 pm first paragraph: drivel.
why would jobs want to keep giving software companies a free ride on mac os x, when it could migrate macbooks to ios, mandate software purchases via the app store only, and take a 30% cut of the revenue?
seth chandler  says: june 7th, 2011 at 6:12 pm @ron, that is too easy:
i hope apple doesn’t take their  elegant stately home and turn it into a tacky theme park.
@rudolph thank you for saving me some typing.
yet when steve jobs announced last night that he was “going to demote the pc and the mac to just be a device”, it wasn’t a million miles away from the “total crap” quip that cost ratner his job and, very nearly, his company.
oh that’s right, the author of this article has never once written a line of objective-c nor used xcode to develop an ios app.
the techradar article i just read, learn, nod and move on.
so the quality readers are still here.
actual payment for it, that they are  needlessly diverting precious money that could could more profitably be  residing in the offshore bank accounts of steve jobs (the world’s poorest  billionaire).
starter (for powerpcs macs?) editions.
beware of false prophets foretelling the end of apple.
chris  says: june 7th, 2011 at 2:09 pm david wright makes the argued case for why the answer is “no”.
so for obvious reasons it caught on like wildfire.
my post above) also @barry collins, no self-respecting developer would be seen without a mac book pro.
there’s little evidence you have a deep understanding of tech – you are a reporter and you’d be a roaring success back at the mail – are you certain the editor’s chair at pc pro is really your cup of tea?
a file system based os is a throwback to the days when computers filled a room.
the power user is the one who will lose out, if this is the strategy.
it essentially taught me how to operate my own it.
david wright  says: june 7th, 2011 at 1:19 pm
a cynic writes… the initial release of ios with the first ever iphone was a superb bit of engineering.
mac os x is for people who do a little more with their lives than tweet and watch youtube, its ios’s powerful big brother.
i don’t think he neccessarily meant the end of osx.
when i heard the announcement, it occurred to me that they were probably lining up ios to take over on their mac range.
and as for dragging a list of messages down to find a hidden search box, whose brilliant idea was that?
the initial architect would be spinning in his grave.
the ios/app store walled garden fits their perception of the consumer need and is a flexible way to monitise services to this market.
nobody goes out to buy “osx” (or ios) but the lifestyle attractions of all that shiny metal and glass are obvious.
apple’s legendary usability seems to have become a casualty as  new features have been shoehorned into the mobile os.
if they were to do these things on ios, it would have to take on significant complexity that wouldn’t belong on a mobile device or post-pc internet appliance.
what about the professional designers, dtp’s, graphic artists, 3d modellers, game developers, movie editors, sound recordists?
true, its a slow grower but it growing none the less.
it makes sense for apple to rid of osx and concentrate on the consumer market.
gavmeister, i don’t want to turn this thread into a discussion about the direction of pc pro, but i can assure you we’re not turning “tabloid”.
so that makes ios the annoying runt of the litter?
i suspect it’s already  doing so.
i suspect it’s already doing so.
as far as i can tell apple have been pushing in this direction for years.
the comment never meant that he is phasing out the mac.
in four short years, ios has acquired a 16.8% share of the smartphone market, according to gartner: almost double the 9.3% market share apple’s spent 10 years building with mac os x.
where does it say that it is not possible to have a fully fledged development suite created for ios?
in apple’s case, mac os x is the perfect platform for  developing the apps that drive iphone and ipad sales.
if i could buy the $99 sdk and develop ios apps without a mac i would.
would a novice ever work out on in osx how to get the desktop to appear when your screen is filled by windows?
as gerald ratner will testify, standing on stage and panning your own  products isn’t a particularly effective sales strategy.
i don’t expect to see the mac pro, imac or mac mini disappear or even go all arm unless apple’s design unit can make it exceed the capabilities of current and future x86 chipsets the way the ppc did 15 years ago.
for me, barry’s headline and first paragraph are misleading, sensationalist, controversialist, factually and conceptually wrong and just wind me right up.
mac os x isn’t and likely never  will be.
premier has finally got to the point where it’s on par if  not better then fcp, if using a nvidia cuda card for video acceleration.
consumers once they have invested in it… unlike with osx.
:/ steve  says: june 7th, 2011 at 5:16 pm please get rid of osx
why would jobs  want to keep giving software companies a free ride on mac os x, when it could  migrate macbooks to ios, mandate software purchases via the app store only, and  take a 30% cut of the revenue?
since the former are basically windows machines anyway, seems obvious for apple to do what it always does best… and that is monopoly.
a computer is now evolving towards just a ‘device’ to browse the internet.
switching macs to ios would be further proof.
likewise, that tight-knit team that conceived and built the original ios release must be spitting ifeathers.
and as for dragging a list of  messages down to find a hidden search box, whose brilliant idea was that?
but then it wouldn’t be the perfect platform.
the ui framework was designed to be  ‘just so’ for a phone.
all the functions of an actual “operating system” (memory management, device interaction, process tables, networking, etc) are handled by the same darwin underpinnings as mac osx.
mac os x isn’t and likely never will be.
you can search with webid keywordssign up your email: your password:remember me create an account advertisement
it would take a couple of weeks to load the data into  apple’s / google’s cloud, if they even let you.
try taking a 32gb sd card with an afternoons worth of snaps from the botanical gardens and try and process them all on an ipad or on chromeos, using just a web browser.
“is apple planning to kill off mac os x?”
that’s a more accurate question.
if we look at the recent article on windows 8 it’s obvious that there is a need for two distinct ui models.
the other point i should clarify is that i don’t anticipate this  happening overnight – i believe it will be a gradual process over a  number of years.
in the 1990’s, before steve jobs returned to apple, they nearly succeeded in killing it.
it’s the pro platform for musicians, and certainly one of the mainstays of artists, designers, writers, videographers, and… ios programmers.
employees in computer stores daily misinformed countless customers about the mac and its abilities, as if it was some kind of toy.
so i no longer need to keep macs around to simply run  final cut pro.
i’d always been a bbc b / windows 95 fan when younger, into games, bits of programming.
but having worked in stockbroking for 10 yrs i had lost all my it awareness because it was all locked down and handled by tech support.
i’m sure if they stack up the numbers that, compared to their macbook pros and mac pros, the iphone/ipad is growing exponentially.
regards barry collins editor @roverdaddy
apple products are for girls.
so never mind about there being no osx server; since it’s basically the same os as the consumer version.
when i heard the announcement, it occurred to me that they were probably  lining up ios to take over on their mac range.
yes macs are up but the tablet has only just started its life and as people start realising that they don’t need a computer to sync to any more sales will start to drop.
likewise, that tight-knit team that  conceived and built the original ios release must be spitting ifeathers.
apps can be written for the power user that make use of keyboards and mice while still making use of the newest ios features.
i’m actually proud of the stories we’ve published on acs law and sir phillip green’s report – to my mind, they’re examples of good investigative journalism, and of holding people in authority to account, not the rehashed press releases you’ll find on other “tech news” sites.
the only part of apple’s portfolio where ios doesn’t make sense is in the high-end.
oh… and if you look at the pages about the new lion os, you’ll find a toolset readily available which turns it into: lion server.
david artiss  says: june 7th, 2011 at 1:47 pm i agree with barry and paul on this.
this is where steve jobs has always been heading.
(i’m still using os 9 and xp.)
it’s lost control of osx (hackintoshes and windows on their own machines).
it  was obvious that it had been developed by a team where everyone from marketing  through to design and programming had been working closely together.
where’s the rejoicing in tech?
i want my pageview back.
true ios has hugely boosted apple over the last couple of years but that doesnt mean mac os x is dead.
i ain’t buying no stinky lion from any stinking ‘app store’.
this article contains some complete crap in itself.
ms has finally come up with an os that’s easier to use than the mac – and although it’s nothing like as crashproof, it’s pretty solid … the users will kill off osx.
i think you overstate your case, but, i think win 7 is easier to use than osx for the uninitiated user.
i started trolling you above, which is unforgivable.
name * mail * website ** your comment spam protection by wp-spamfree * required fields * will not be publishedapple keynote: live(ish) from a london pub advertisement
ios great for ad hoc read, manipulate or write certain files but these devices doesn’t have computing power to do the serious computational operation.
as pointed out at this years wwdc mac popularity grew by 28% and windows dropped by 1%.
even the new version of the operating system itself is a download-only “app”, available exclusively from the mac app store.
you’d have the commodore 64 situation all over again if you tried to use windows (ref.
it’s a bit like a gorgeous stately home that had a ghastly extension built in the 1950s, and a tacky conservatory in the 1980s.
over the next couple of years i expect to see sales of macs drop.
at the moment, i have e-mail, twitter, web browser, visio and skype open in  separate windows on one monitor, on the other i have project, excel and word  open
over the past couple of months, there have been continual rumours that apple is testing the ipad’s a5 processor in its macbook range, suggesting apple believes ios could stretch further than smartphones and tablets.
@gavmeister the “demise” of osx started the day that the iphone \ ipod touch emerged blinking from the shadows.
hence porting iphone apps to ipad is relatively easy despite the disparate hardware platforms involved.
as a pro-user, i literally could not believe my ears as they told me the impossibly stupid.
both are built off a bsd-derivative called darwin.
most people give not a hoot about anything other than getting from a-b. however many people are seduced by claims that they’ll be buying the “ultimate driving machine” or by pretty styling, or perceived “quality”.
it was so intuitive that you really didn’t need a manual.
they just quit pretending it was different and started providing the server tools separately.
not that i’m saying that ios like interfaces are better – in fact, these are much worse.
i don’t know anyone  that worked out how to access multi-tasking or organise their apps into folders  without asking a friend or looking it up online.
then i wonder what will happen when osx is discontinued and all those osx computers arrive on ebay with crashed software and without installation disk.
yet, apple’s already discontinued its xserve range of  servers and the company barely speaks of its corporate customers these days:  it’s almost exclusively fixated on the consumer market.
mac os x has too many things that ios will not replace.
predictions? can’t listen, … gotta try to get back the stuff i sold preparing for the end of the world last week.
for simple “non productive” tasks, such as web browsing or  emailing, a tablet os is fine.
apple know that, they are not stupid – they have to provide a platform for ‘power’ users (not only for developers, but many other users).
however, it doesn’t mean that an ios front-end can’t be bolted-on to os.x for the average user, which is exactly what they have done in lion!
i simply don’t think it’s possible for ios to become a desktop os without *completely* trashing it.
personally, what i’m expecting to see is a better integration between ios and os x to the point that the ios device can completely replace conventional portables and serve as an extension of the desktop rather than a replacement.
only takes a little common sense to realise that, instead we get mindless doom-mongering prattle.
could lion become apple’s vista good riddance i say.
the other clue that this could be the end of os x is the name.
they couldn’t handle the housekeeping so it got handed over to the user.
the only part of apple’s portfolio where ios doesn’t make sense  is in the high-end indeed, recent developments in mac os x itself have borrowed heavily from  ios, not least touch gestures and, crucially, the mac app store.
pinging is currently not  allowed.
i simply don’t think it’s possible for ios to become a desktop  os without *completely* trashing it.
i too thought that ios was supposed to be incredibly intuitive, but when i  tried my daughters iphone touch i ended up having to “google” to  find out how to place apps into folders – it’s not obvious as all.
i hope apple doesn’t take their elegant stately home and turn it into a tacky theme park.
tags: apple, ios, mac os x, steve jobs posted in: newsdesk follow any responses to this entry through the rss 2.0 feed.
but there is a really compelling reason to keep mac os x going, and that is to  support apple’s developer community.
might not be this year
ios was something the mobile industry seriously needed, a decent mobile os.
would ios (or an ios-like) ui paradigm replace the current quartz-based ui stack on osx?
it’s all just big headlines, negativity and guesswork.
apple’s alleged recent success in flogging macs is down almost entirely to their physical qualities.
being able to flick between the apps “alt+tab” or
the techradar article is more balanced (”it’s too soon to say that apple is about to knife mac os x…but it is clear that apple sees its future as being increasingly away from its history in traditional personal computing”), but what’s interesting is the comments are much higher quality here at pc pro, particularly @rudolph pienaar’s jaw-droppingly good one (i now totally get ios vs os x, thanks rudolph!).
can’t be arsed trawling through all of the hand wringing in this thread to find out, but i don’t recall anybody saying that ios could never support development platforms.
“why would jobs want to keep giving software companies a free ride on mac os x” shocking.
this is ridiculous drivel and utter link bait.
try taking a 32gb sd card with an afternoons worth of snaps from the  botanical gardens and try and process them all on an ipad or on chromeos, using  just a web browser.
repeat: the mac is getting better, not going away.
lion is  arguably the daddy of the big cats.
@mark is that article link (i read it yesterday) intended to support or refute my position?
the mac is not going away.
should i stick with my trusty pc for now…?
just look down the “latest news” today.
another problem is that people use their computer to do their work and to use the internet.
i am gutted pc pro are flushing their status down the drain with this nonsense.
however, from their perspective, i can see sense in offering an ios  derived consumer focused experience (possibly on a macbook air style device)  and reserve the osx experience for the ‘pro’ community.
being able to see 3 or 4 windows of information at the same time and  assemble that information into a single new document, without having to  continually interrupt myself, by flipping another app full screen, then  flipping back is something i would be unwilling to give up.
i think that you should have 2 computers: one for your work and one for internet.
roverdaddy  says: june 7th, 2011 at 5:59 pm @chris: “in apple’s case, mac os x is the perfect platform for  developing the apps that drive iphone and ipad sales.”
david staples  says: june 7th, 2011 at 1:55 pm “why would jobs want to keep giving software companies a free ride on  mac os x” shocking.
converting the imac to arm would make more sense, and that doesn’t seem likely, does it?
until there is a realistic way to  develop ios apps on ios devices the answer will remain “no”.
mac sales are up hugely, that isn’t a sign that people don’t want ‘pc’ like machines to do more than they can on their ios device.
merely that windows and linux are superior.
the ios/app  store walled garden fits their perception of the consumer need and is a  flexible way to monitise services to this market.
the point about demoting the mac to “just a device” was meant in relation to the ios devices.
i hate to think how long an ipad’s arm processor would take to process raw images and manipulate them, i doubt it would be in “real time”.
for power users, it is going to be too restrictive.
will barry now run an article saying that android will replace linux.
the newsletter contains links to our latest pc news, product reviews, features and how-to guides, plus special offers and competitions.
:/ please get rid of osx
as for the arm thing, osx is quite capable of running on arm, they’re  not about to put ios on a macbook air.
it’s a bit like a gorgeous stately home that had a ghastly extension  built in the 1950s, and a tacky conservatory in the 1980s.
the people who do these things  mostly use macs.
the only part of apple’s portfolio where ios doesn’t make sense is in the high-end indeed, recent developments in mac os x itself have borrowed heavily from ios, not least touch gestures and, crucially, the mac app store.
first paragraph: drivel.
they serve no function but to create fear, uncertainty, and doubt.
as a personal note i grew up with a commodore 64 and it took me a long time to work out that developing software for it was a mugs game, as all the commercial software had been probably been created on workstations running cross-assemblers.
then you will see that os 9 was better.
as we move towards more on-line services, i think, for a lot of users, a simplified interface will be fine and ios or a web browser interface will work.
tags: apple, ios, mac os x, steve jobs posted in: newsdesk permalink follow any responses to this entry through the rss 2.0 feed.
actual payment for it, that they are needlessly diverting precious money that could could more profitably be residing in the offshore bank accounts of steve jobs (the world’s poorest billionaire).
the ui framework was designed to be ‘just so’ for a phone.
however there are tasks that still need a mouse/menu interface and they are not going away anytime soon.
it reads like the daily mail front page.
cut out the miserabilist, controversialist stories.
i just think you are taking pc pro in the wrong direction.
so i no longer need to keep macs around to simply run final cut pro.
@chris: “in apple’s case, mac os x is the perfect platform for developing the apps that drive iphone and ipad sales.”
i think mobile technology will partially take over the personal computer industry but mac osx will always have its place.
the answer to your question headline, of course, is “no”.
premier has finally got to the point where it’s on par if not better then fcp, if using a nvidia cuda card for video acceleration.
david wright makes the argued case for why the answer is “no”.
this is the start of the death of osx, not the end.
since so many users have pointed out the requirement for a “professional” version of osx for programme development alongside the ios or “home basic” version for web browsing perhaps steve jobs will take the cue and launch ultimate (for graphic designers), home premium (for imacs)and
one thing that seems to get lost in the wash over and over again is that ios and mac osx are technically the same operating system at the core.
on tablets, ios and the ipad accounted for 80% of all sales in the first quarter of 2011, according to context.
@ios dev re pc plus, it’s not time to jump ship to techradar quite yet but we’re getting there.
yet when steve  jobs announced last night that he was “going to demote the pc and the mac  to just be a device”, it wasn’t a million miles away from the  “total crap” quip that cost ratner his job and, very nearly, his  company.
an analogy with motoring is appropriate.
for many years “computers” were a hobby in themselves, and for many they still are.
with ios/itunes/icloud, apple can control it’s
for web based information consumption and participation a simplified ui offers great advantages.
this is technology of the seventies.
if you ask them to go back to objective-c, then that’s a very bad idea.
i hate to think how long an ipad’s arm processor would take to  process raw images and manipulate them, i doubt it would be in “real  time”.
rudolph pienaar points-out that this is down to the use of the same basic unix core os in all their current devices.
google “i hate osx” and read the comments.
(the c++ standard was set in 1981.)
i think elements of ios will transfer well into os x, but i don’t think the “content creators” will be able / willing to move to such a confined workflow.
both ios and osx are the same core operating system, but different ui stacks (and typically compiled to different processors: arm for ios and x86_64 for osx).
just applications that did what you want in a way that you expect.
lion is arguably the daddy of the big cats.
does apple really want or even need full-fat mac os x?
no longer would you need the mac to load them, program them, or sync them all together.
don’t these selfish software companies know that by producing  software and expecting to receive (gasp!)
could apple eventually phase out mac os x?
@ron, that is too easy: gryphon.
in fact, called ios an “os” is debatable.
you can get rid of your mac right now and replace it pcs running premier.
ron watson  says: june 7th, 2011 at 3:42 pm
for photo editing, research and content creation, the ios interface is too  restrictive.
will now read remainder.
the initial  architect would be spinning in his grave.
do that, and suddenly apple’s security woes are resolved and platform independence is insured.
i might even start buying the mag again.
the ideal os has always been none at all.
however, from their perspective, i can see sense in offering an ios derived consumer focused experience (possibly on a macbook air style device) and reserve the osx experience for the ‘pro’ community.
how will they top lion?
the ui feels like it’s kludged together and not really thought through – the mac os ui belongs in the 80s.
as long as i can get to a darwin terminal app i care little for the flashy exterior — be it osx or ios (in fact, jailbreak your ios device, install a terminal app from cydia, and you’ll see the exact same “belly-of-the-beast” in ios as in osx).
“if i could buy the $99 sdk and develop ios apps without a mac i would.”
they’re always there, ready to bend every ambiguous statement or dangling factoid to signal impending doom of the company they hate.
the other point i should clarify is that i don’t anticipate this happening overnight – i believe it will be a gradual process over a number of years.
if they did phase out os.x (which they won’t) then it will leave developers with nowhere to go to develop apps for either ios or os.x!
the people who do these things mostly use macs.
this sort of article belongs in you magazine, not a tech site with pc pro’s (rapidly declining) reputation.
i think elements of ios will transfer well into os x, but i don’t  think the “content creators” will be able / willing to move to such  a confined workflow.
the laptop or desktop will remain the most home user’s computing powerhouse and the mac os x will be running that on apple.
when osx arrived, i refused to switch.
not here yet but, someday… hmmm and there was me thinking of buying a mac in the next few months and making the switch…
even if you had a million developers for the 300 million ios devices(i might have exaggerated that number, not sure) then that’s only a million devices every couple of years.
@steve: why wait for apple to get rid of mac os x?
and i am creating new word documents containing information garnered from visio, firefox, excel and project.
why isn’t it feasible to rename a folder or move a file in a dialog box, when you spot there’s an error?
without developers creating apps, the iphone / ipad wouldn’t be anywhere near where they are today.
paul ockenden  says: june 7th, 2011 at 1:28 pm a cynic writes… the initial release of ios with the first ever iphone was a superb bit of  engineering.
i’d set them straight, but i’m sure that didn’t stop them.
as gerald ratner will testify, standing on stage and panning your own products isn’t a particularly effective sales strategy.
but there is a really compelling reason to keep mac os x going, and that is to support apple’s developer community.
i too thought that ios was supposed to be incredibly intuitive, but when i tried my daughters iphone touch i ended up having to “google” to find out how to place apps into folders – it’s not obvious as all.
if they were to do these things on ios, it would have to take  on significant complexity that wouldn’t belong on a mobile device or  post-pc internet appliance.
bring back the geeky joy.
icloud will make file transfer more transparent but will not read, manipulate or write the file as you wish and the os and it the applications on it will read, manipulate or write files.
tools like xcode and interface builder.
tim danton must be turning in his upstairs office.
ios style is  a pain.
sorry to be on your case
even the new  version of the operating system itself is a download-only “app”,  available exclusively from the mac app store.
i hope that mac os x is not going away.
the point about mac os x being the sole development platform for ios is an excellent one.
now that they can handle the housekeeping, why not let them do it.
thanks for the comments.
probably the biggest argument against this analysis is the fact that apple’s mac sales have been going up every quarter for the last five years, steadily outpacing the growth of all the other brands with limited exceptions.
but i’m kind of with you.
in four short years, ios has acquired a 16.8% share  of the smartphone market, according to gartner: almost double the 9.3% market  share apple’s spent 10 years building with mac os x.  on tablets,  ios and the ipad accounted for 80% of all sales in the first quarter of 2011,  according to context.
as a personal note i grew up with a commodore 64 and it took me a long time  to work out that developing software for it was a mugs game, as all the  commercial software had been probably been created on workstations running  cross-assemblers.
that’s as it should be.
barry collins  says: june 7th, 2011 at 6:12 pm thanks for the comments.
ron – i’m stunned that not a single member of the legions of apple fans has risen to the defense of osx in response to your final comment here back in july.
ian betteridge  says: june 7th, 2011 at 2:01 pm the answer to your question headline, of course, is “no”.
dominic pettifer  says: june 7th, 2011 at 5:50 pm “is apple planning to kill off mac os x?”
however, it would be perfectly possible for apple to keep os x alive as a development platform, and eventually migrate its laptops/mac mini to ios.
re:mikhael michaelides yes michael keep your trusty pc i myself always make important decisions based on one article i’ve read online.
osx is an over-rated and unintuitive os to use.
you could convincingly argue that ios is little more than a particular ui (optimized for touch) bolted on top of darwin.
when i left to set up my own business pc pro was a godsend.
over the past couple of months, there have been continual rumours that  apple is testing the ipad’s a5 processor in its macbook range, suggesting  apple believes ios could stretch further than smartphones and tablets.
why can’t you resize a window by grabbing its sides?
but, as i’ve previously mentioned in pc pro’s mobile &  wireless column, since that initial release it all seems to have gone a bit  pete tong.
os x isn’t going away, it’s just going to fade seriously into the background.
ron is too mild when he says that the mac os ui belongs in the 80s.
what about the  professional designers, dtp’s, graphic artists, 3d modellers, game  developers, movie editors, sound recordists?
printed from www.pcpro.co.uk register to receive our regular email newsletter at http://www.pcpro.co.uk/registration.
i think adobe’s ideas, where they use the ipad as an extension to the  computer for creating content is good.
if i could buy the $99 sdk and  develop ios apps without a mac i would.
what i found most disturbing, is that you are supposed to program in objective-c, the predecessor of c++.
posted on june 7th, 2011 by barry collins is apple planning to kill off mac os x?
likewise basic computing platforms are now so reliable that most people neither know nor care which one they are using at any time.
qbixqbix  says: june 7th, 2011 at 4:41 pm since so many users have pointed out the requirement for a  “professional” version of osx for programme development alongside  the ios or “home basic” version for web browsing perhaps steve jobs  will take the cue and launch ultimate (for graphic designers), home premium  (for imacs)and starter (for powerpcs macs?) editions.
my 8 core machine takes a couple of seconds to process a new image in  lightroom.
48 responses to “ is apple planning to kill off mac os x? ”
pinging is currently not allowed.
as for the arm thing, osx is quite capable of running on arm, they’re not about to put ios on a macbook air.
firhill  says: june 7th, 2011 at 5:38 pm @gavmeister lol
the evidence  increasingly suggests not.
@ron that’s an easy one: thundercat.
but barry’s taking pc pro in a different direction – basically tabloid, which is his background (this and the acs law stuff and the anti-philip green review stuff are the examples of that) – and perhaps that will work for subscription numbers.
what steve jobs meant was that the pc/mac isn’t going to be the centre of the world where we store all of our files, and connect all our devices to before we can do anything, not that the mac is going to turn into an ios-like device.
however, it would be perfectly possible for apple to keep os x alive as a  development platform, and eventually migrate its laptops/mac mini to ios.
however there probably are millions of laptop owners who do little content creation so an “ipad with a keyboard” may well be an ideal device for them.
it was obvious that it had been developed by a team where everyone from marketing through to design and programming had been working closely together.
don’t these selfish software companies know that by producing software and expecting to receive (gasp!)
so maybe it’s me, just a matter of personal taste.
and i am creating new word documents containing information garnered from  visio, firefox, excel and project.
you can skip to the end and leave a response.
i use os 9 for my work and xp with firefox for internet.
it would take a couple of weeks to load the data into apple’s / google’s cloud, if they even let you.
time to turn this ship around.