showing page 2 of 5 « prev 12345 next » comments | flag understanding macs - mac vs pc this four part series details the simple differences between macs and pcs, the advantages of mac vs pc, and concludes with which is better, mac or pc.
just about anything and everything can be  found using the start menu.
please enable javascript to view thecomments powered by disqus.
the windows 7 start menu is convenient and well designed, as it has many stationary buttons such as documents, pictures, music, games, computer, control panel, etc... for easy navigating to certain places.
earlier, we mentioned that the mac os dock has a magnification feature.
windows 7 vs. mac os x - windows 7 start menu vs. mac os x finder
windows 7 heavily relies on one element to control most things, which is the windows 7 taskbar.
showing page 2 of 5 « prev 12345 next »
mac os's finder is strongly considered to be the main  navigation point in the mac ui.
aero theme enabled, which is an under illumination for each icon that you scroll over.
blog comments powered bydisqus mac platform - appletv - ilife - itunes - iwork - mac computer reviews - mac os x - mac os x server - mac peripherals & accessories - mac user tips - news & views - software reviews featured authors most popular articles - windows and mac: differences in everyday operating system use - how to erase your history and cache from safari - a detailed guide - tips on imac fan control - save space by shrinking your pdf files - hiding the dock in mac os x - a quick guide - what are the advantages and disadvantages of mac os?
we have just reached a mid point in the article, where we can draw a couple  of conclusions on mac os vs. windows 7.
understanding macs - differences between mac and pc - 2.
the mac os x dock can be repositioned to the bottom, left or right of the screen but not the top, as mac os x utilizes a top taskbar for various other functions.
- installing mac os on a pc - what you need - how to clean install mac os x 10.7 lion about bright hub contact us advertise with us rss site map terms of use privacy policy copyright policy ©2012 bright hub inc.
not only that, but you can also run commands.
the windows 7 start menu navigation is simple enough, and just about everything can be found by clicking the all programs listing.
- setting an alarm in ical - worried about viruses on your mac?
home   > computing  >  mac  >  mac os x windows and mac: differences in everyday operating system use (page 2 of 5) written by: nicholas  • edited by: michael dougherty updated nov 14, 2010  • related guides: windows 7 | mac os x |  operating system windows 7 vs. mac os x - windows 7 taskbar vs. mac os x dock (continued...)
aero theme  enabled, which is an under illumination for each icon that you scroll over.
since we already covered windows 7 taskbar vs. mac os x dock, it should be  noted that the windows 7 start menu is located in the windows taskbar, and the  mac os x finder is located in the mac dock.
just about anything and everything can be found using the start menu.
now that we have covered the basic functionality differences of windows 7  vs. mac os x taskbar and dock, please note some of the following mac  equivalents: with mac os, the clock is located in the upper taskbar rather then the  dock.
notably, the windows 7 start menu also has an  integrated search box, which allows you to search through files on your pc.
the windows 7 taskbar has a similar feature if you have a windows 7
the biggest difference thus far is that mac os x constantly uses two elements to control programs, folders and applications, which are the dock and upper taskbar.
click to enlarge windows 7's start menu is strongly considered to be the main  navigation point in the windows ui.
opening up the mac os  finder basically opens up a master window, where you can quickly access the  macintosh hard drive, shared devices, and specific user files, applications and  documents.
windows and mac: differences in everyday operating system use - 3.
the biggest difference thus far is that mac os x constantly uses two  elements to control programs, folders and applications, which are the dock and  upper taskbar.
the main  difference between the start menu and finder is: the start menu operates using  a list interface vs. the finder uses a window interface.
you will learn more about why on the next page.
notably, the windows 7 start menu also has an integrated search box, which allows you to search through files on your pc.
mac os's finder is strongly considered to be the main navigation point in the mac ui.
the benefits of mac vs. pc - 4.
thus, the time is at the top of the screen.
now that we have covered the basic functionality differences of windows 7 vs. mac os x taskbar and dock, please note some of the following mac equivalents: - with mac os, the clock is located in the upper taskbar rather then the dock.
email to a friend * * leave a personal message (optional) be notified of new quizes in this topic sign up for the newsletter
as far as the equivalents between the  windows 7 taskbar and start menu vs. the mac os dock and finder, both are  equally capable.
windows 7 heavily relies on one element to control most things,  which is the windows 7 taskbar.
| browse site - business - computing - education - electronics - engineering - environment - finances - gaming - internet - mobile - multimedia - science - hubfolio bright hub 2 comments home > computing > mac > mac os x windows and mac: differences in everyday operating system use (page 2 of 5) written by: nicholas • edited by: michael dougherty updated nov 14, 2010 • related guides: windows 7 | mac os x | operating system windows 7 vs. mac os x - windows 7 taskbar vs. mac os x dock (continued...)
download a free antivirus application for mac os x lion!
the main difference between the start menu and finder is: the start menu operates using a list interface vs. the finder uses a window interface.
like the start menu, click to enlarge finder can be used to access just about anything on your computer.
opening up the mac os finder basically opens up a master window, where you can quickly access the macintosh hard drive, shared devices, and specific user files, applications and documents.
which is better - mac or pc?
sign up for our newsletter mac channel news | view all news please, enter valid email.
the  windows 7 start menu is convenient and well designed, as it has many stationary  buttons such as documents, pictures, music, games, computer, control panel,  etc... for easy navigating to certain places.
- if using a laptop, the battery charge indicator and wireless network utility are located on the upper taskbar as well, vs. windows 7, where the battery charge indicator and wireless network utility are located in the windows 7 taskbar.
- earlier, we mentioned that the mac os dock has a magnification feature.
powered by the parse.ly publisher platform (p3).
we have just reached a mid point in the article, where we can draw a couple of conclusions on mac os vs. windows 7.
if using a laptop, the battery charge indicator and wireless network  utility are located on the upper taskbar as well, vs. windows 7, where the  battery charge indicator and wireless network utility are located in the  windows 7 taskbar.
click to enlarge windows 7's start menu is strongly considered to be the main navigation point in the windows ui.
the windows 7 start menu  navigation is simple enough, and just about everything can be found by clicking  the all programs listing.
since we already covered windows 7 taskbar vs. mac os x dock, it should be noted that the windows 7 start menu is located in the windows taskbar, and the mac os x finder is located in the mac dock.
the mac os x dock can be repositioned to the bottom, left or right of the  screen but not the top, as mac os x utilizes a top taskbar for various other  functions.
as far as the equivalents between the windows 7 taskbar and start menu vs. the mac os dock and finder, both are equally capable.