~old phishing scam – but  worth repeating » blog at wordpress.com.
you are commenting using your twitter account.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.
if you want the best virtualization performance for vista, then vmware fusion is your choice.
(  log out / change ) you are commenting using your facebook account.
you are commenting using your wordpress.com account.
and, as we said before, if you want the best xp performance with the types of applications tested here, parallels is not only faster than vmware fusion, but it’s faster than boot camp on average for the applications that we tested.
the answer seems to depend on what you want to do with windows, and what version you intend to run.
you can follow any responses to this entry through therss 2.0 feed.
windows xp home edition sp2b for system builders was available on amazon for $89 as of the date of this post.
this is a  very good price for windows xp sp2, and is what i used for my latest windows  install on my new imac.
reply i can’t believe how technology evolved along the yers, thanks for this article tough.
reply april 8, 2010 at 2:46 am i can’t believe how technology evolved along the yers, thanks for  this article tough.
keep up the great work.
you can leave a response, or  trackback from your own site.
if you want a virtualization product (that allows you to run windows alongside mac os x), and you want the best performance for the types of things that we tested, then clearly you need to run xp and not vista.
follow get every new post delivered to your inbox.
(and, although we didn’t test it, we would expect vmware fusion to have better multi-processor support if you really have an application that is designed to take advantage of it.)if your goal is tight integration between one or more windows applications and mac os x, parallels is the clear winner when running either xp or vista.
you of course need an intel-based mac, and a full copy of windows xp sp2 or windows vista (business or ultimate), in order to run windows on a mac using any of these solutions.
and, as we said before, if  you want the best xp performance with the types of applications tested here,  parallels is not only faster than vmware fusion, but it’s faster than  boot camp on average for the applications that we tested.
powered by wordpress.com
this is he most amazing site dude :dreply thanks for sharing this.
the  answer seems to depend on what you want to do with windows, and what version  you intend to run.
that said, parallels was somewhat faster in general than  vmware fusion for xp.
i recommend windows xp over vista if you want to use os x as your main operating system and just want to use windows to run applications that require it.
3 responses to “~which is the better windows emulator?
this is a very good price for windows xp sp2, and is what i used for my latest windows install on my new imac.
this entry was posted on january 3, 2008 at 10:49 pm and is filed under  apple, mac, parallels & vm, technology, windows.
while i would encourage you to read the entire article and benchmarks, the most important details of the study’s conclusions are quoted from the underlyingmactech article here.
and, if you want to keep your mac os x and windows environments completely separate, vmware fusion’s design may be your better choice.
that said, parallels was somewhat faster in general than vmware fusion for xp.
while i would encourage  you to read the entire article and benchmarks, the most important details of  the study’s conclusions are quoted from the underlyingmactech article  here.
reply fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: you are commenting using your wordpress.com account.
if you want the best virtualization performance for vista, then vmware  fusion is your choice.
if you want a virtualization product (that allows you to run windows  alongside mac os x), and you want the best performance for the types of things  that we tested, then clearly you need to run xp and not vista.
i have personally used both boot camp and parallels, and currently have parallels v3 running on a 2.33 ghz macbook pro with 3gb ram, and a new 2.4ghz imac with 4gb ram.
the copy that came with your pc or an upgrade will not  work.
fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: email (required) (address never made public)
(  log out / change ) cancel notify me of follow-up comments via email.
to be honest, i cannot discern any difference in speed between my original implementation of boot camp and later parallels install, however, not having to reboot into each os, and the ease with which files can be shared between os’s are major advantages that parallels has over boot camp.
you can read about my experiences with thembp leopard install with  parallels 3 in an earlier post by the same name.
and, if you want to keep your mac os x and windows  environments completely separate, vmware fusion’s design may be your  better choice.
i have personally used both boot camp and parallels, and currently have  parallels v3 running on a 2.33 ghz macbook pro with 3gb ram, and a new 2.4ghz  imac with 4gb ram.
posted by john kendrick on january 3, 2008 a common question “switchers” have these days is whether to use  parallels, vmware fusion, or boot camp on their mac for windows emulation?
( log out / change ) you are commenting using your twitter account.
notify me of new posts via email.
you of course need an intel-based mac, and a full copy of windows xp sp2 or  windows vista (business or ultimate), in order to run windows on a mac using  any of these solutions.
to be honest, i cannot discern any difference in speed  between my original implementation of boot camp and later parallels install,  however, not having to reboot into each os, and the ease with which files can  be shared between os’s are major advantages that parallels has over boot  camp.
for a comparison, and some insights into the differences, read the parallels vs. vmware fusion shootout at apple insider.
furthermore, in our tests, both vmware fusion and parallels performed well, and were a good user experience.
for a comparison, and some insights into the differences, read the  parallels vs. vmware fusion shootout at apple insider.
it’s faster than a pc anyway.
well that depends . .
you can read about my experiences with thembp leopard install with parallels 3 in an earlier post by the same name.
cancel connecting to %s notify me of follow-up comments via email.
« ~what is the best (and cheapest) way to purchase an  apple (mac) computer?
they actually recommend this purchase with parallels, though you don’t have to purchase the two together.
if you don’t want mac integration, and just want to run windows,  go with boot camp.
reply leave a reply cancel reply enter your comment here...
the copy that came with your pc or an upgrade will not work.
this entry was posted on january 3, 2008 at 10:49 pm and is filed under apple, mac, parallels & vm, technology, windows.
| theme:  andreas09 by andreas viklund.
well that  depends . .
~old phishing scam  – but worth repeating » ~which is the better windows emulator?
if you don’t want mac integration, and just want to run windows, go with boot camp.
posted by john kendrick on january 3, 2008 a common question “switchers” have these days is whether to use parallels, vmware fusion, or boot camp on their mac for windows emulation?
this is he most amazing site dude :d reply february 10, 2010 at 3:26 am thanks for sharing this.
like this: like be the first to like this post.
they actually recommend this purchase with  parallels, though you don’t have to purchase the two together.
you are commenting using your facebook account.
windows xp home edition sp2b for system builders was available on amazon for  $89 as of the date of this post.
wilburn reimund said april 27, 2009 at 4:26 am :o
« ~what is the best (and  cheapest) way to purchase an apple (mac) computer?
i recommend windows xp over vista if you want to use os x as your main  operating system and just want to use windows to run applications that require  it.
furthermore, in  our tests, both vmware fusion and parallels performed well, and were a good  user experience.
you can follow any  responses to this entry through therss 2.0 feed.
you can leave a response, or trackback from your own site.
(and, although we didn’t test it, we would expect vmware  fusion to have better multi-processor support if you really have an application  that is designed to take advantage of it.)if your goal is tight  integration between one or more windows applications and mac os x, parallels is  the clear winner when running either xp or vista.