"old world" macs can't boot directly into linux.
histhe road warrior column was a regular feature  on macopinion, and he is a news editor and columnist atapplelinks.com.
preparing your mac's hard drive for linux, larry stotler, linux on the low  end, 08.09.
my friend had read a feature in the local newspaper extolling the virtues of ubuntu linux and thought it sounded interesting.
earlier this year, longtime mac programmers tim bray and mark pilgrim  stirred the waters of the mac community by announcing that they were switching  from mac os x to ubuntu.
logmein makes it easy.
histhe road warrior column was a regular feature on macopinion, and he is a news editor and columnist atapplelinks.com.
home | deals | tech specs | articles | news | groups | software | support |news feed | #lowendmac charles moore - 2006.09.18 - tip jar a friend of mine phoned to ask if i thought he should install ubuntu linux on his macs - a1.33 ghz g4 ibook currently running os x 10.4 "tiger" and a1.25 ghz power mac g4 tower with os x 10.3
does ubuntu linux make any sense for macintosh users?
" i've installed a couple of linux distros - suse and yellow dog - on macs in  the past, partly as an exercise in curiosity.
if you find his articles helpful,please consider making a donation to his tip jar.
for now i'm a macboy again, in which he  observes: "on balance, the mac experience is better.
the current ubuntu release supports pc (intel x86), 64-bit pc (amd64), ultrasparc t1 (sun fire t1000 and t2000), and powerpc (ibook and powerbook, g4 and g5) architectures.
on the other hand, for users of older mac hardware, particularly machines  not supported by os x, linux is a way to give them a new lease on life  with a modern, secure, and robust operating system that requires less power and  processor overhead on their less-than-cutting-edge equipment.
mac and ios browsers: options galore, freeware forum, 2012.02.10.
it was an interesting trip, but i  kept asking myself, "why would i want to put up with the aggravations and  hassles of using linux on a computer that supports the mac os?
older mac software can be accommodated using the mac on linux emulator - a sort of "classic mode" for linux on powerpc macs.
a  look at three different hard drive strategies for mac linux.
advice is presented in good faith, but what works for one may not work for all.
it can also be installed with the ubuntu-desktop package, while kde is the default desktop for thekubuntu variant.
the current ubuntu release supports pc (intel x86), 64-bit pc (amd64),  ultrasparc t1 (sun fire t1000 and t2000), and powerpc (ibook and powerbook, g4  and g5) architectures.
-- special introductory price of $59.95!!
&lt;script language="javascript"  src="http://bullseye.backbeatmedia.com/bullseye/adserver/270/530/viewjscript?pool=266&amp;type=13&amp;pos=13&amp;zone=5000&amp;redirect=aj"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;  &lt;noscript&gt;&lt;a  href="http://adserver1.backbeatmedia.com/servlet/ajrotator/270/530/clickcgi?pos=13&amp;zone=5000"&gt;&lt;img  src="http://bullseye.backbeatmedia.com/bullseye/adserver/270/530/viewcgi?pool=266&amp;type=13&amp;pos=13&amp;zone=5000&amp;redirect=aj"  border="0"&gt;&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/noscript&gt; home | deals | tech specs | articles | news | groups | software | support  |news feed | #lowendmac miscellaneous ramblings is ubuntu linux a sensible alternative for mac users?
consequently, if i had a non-apple pc, ubuntu linux would probably be my first choice of operating systems, but with a mac, you already have the best operating system in world.
apple, the apple logo, macintosh, ipad iphone, imac, ipod, macbook, magsafe, mac pro, apple tv, and airport areregistered trademarks of apple inc.
lem writers share their favorites.
also macbook air  better than any ultrabook, docks for macbook pro models, intel offers improved  ssds, and more.
the ubuntu community is built on the ideas enshrined in the ubuntu philosophy: software should be available free of charge, software tools should be usable by people in their local language and despite any disabilities, and people should have the freedom to customize and alter their software in whatever way they see fit.
mac recent content on low end
further reading why run linux on a low-end mac?, larry stotler, linux on the low end,  2006.07.19.
like linux, os x gives you the stability and power of unix (albeit from different branches of the unix family tree), but combined with the best graphic user interface yet devised for personal computers, ease of software installation, and, with rare exceptions, true plug and play - "it just works" - with peripherals and networking support.
they  need to boot the classic mac os first, then pass control over to linux.
he  has a suite of mac software, and i can perceive no advantage and many potential  pitfalls in his switching to linux.
i'm thinking about the endgame."
miscellaneous ramblings ©1999-2012 by charles w. moore.
ubuntu covers every standard desktop application from word processing and spreadsheet applications to web server software and programming tools.
also using your ipad at  work, two photo editors, a new ipad text editor, macally's magnetic ipad 2  stand, and more.
recent articles by charles w. moore don't kill caps lock, learning to love the ios keyboard, and an adaptive  ipad keyboard, miscellaneous ramblings, 2012.02.06.
for more details, see ourterms of use.
the key to  apple's success - which ipod is best for you? - 08: could a wireless dock be in  the macbook air's future? - 2 of apple's best notebooks ever support low end
flea market mac plus - i love  this quadra! - 03:
charles moore has been a freelance journalist since 1987 and began writing for mac websites in may 1998.
links for the day mac of the day: outbound laptop and notebook, introduced 1989.09.
ubuntu covers every standard desktop  application from word processing and spreadsheet applications to web server  software and programming tools.
older mac software can be accommodated using the mac on linux emulator - a  sort of "classic mode" for linux on powerpc macs.
before you install linux, you have to partition your hard drive.
the ins and outs of booting linux on the mac, larry stotler, linux on the  low end, 07.31.
follow us on twitter.
but ubuntu is not that far  behind, and it's catching up.
he goes on to list a variety of areas where the mac os is superior.
charles moore has been a freelance journalist since 1987 and began writing  for mac websites in may 1998.
i kept asking myself, "why would i want to put up with the  aggravations and hassles of using linux on a computer that supports the mac
also the power of tex-edit  plus, google and twitter are already censoring the web, snow leopard security  update, and more.
to buy from the mac app storeclick here now!!
however, if you're interested in ubuntu, it's a complete linux-based  operating system, freely available with both community and professional support  being developed by a large community.
for now i'm a macboy again, in which he observes: "on balance, the mac experience is better.
he's an experienced, but not especially tech-savvy, non-power user, and the  geek aspect of linux would be of no interest or service to him.
consequently, if i had a non-apple pc, ubuntu linux would probably be my  first choice of operating systems, but with a mac, you already have the best  operating system in world.
additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks and are hereby acknowledged.
low end mac is an independent publication and has not been authorized, sponsored, or otherwise approved by apple inc.
jaguar revisited - beige g3 upgrades - 05:
" i couldn't come up with anything convincing.
gnome is the default desktop user interface for ubuntu.
letters may be edited for length, context, and to matchhouse style.
the machines he has are powerful and up-to-date enough to run os x very comfortably.
it can also be  installed with the ubuntu-desktop package, while kde is the default desktop for  thekubuntu variant.
this number is for advertising only.
in my friend's case, i would say no, and i did.
whether a macbook air  makes as much sense as a macbook pro, finding a vertical stand for a macbook,  and tips for getting an se/30 on the internet.
are some video cards better than others?
you can play, rip and mix your cds with the rhythmbox media player or play your videos in totem.
ubuntu includes more than 16,000 pieces of software, but the core desktop installation fits on a single cd.
he has a suite of mac software, and i can perceive no advantage and many potential pitfalls in his switching to linux.
entire low end mac website copyright ©1997-2012 by cobweb publishing, inc. unless otherwise noted.
if you want to keep ubuntu permanently, there is an  easy installer right on the desktopcd.
you can play, rip and mix  your cds with the rhythmbox media player or play your videos in totem.
but ubuntu is not that far behind, and it's catching up.
ubuntu supports intel/amd pc hardware  as well as power pc macs.
the main advantage, as i see it, of using a macintosh is that it runs the  mac os, which is unmatched and unchallenged in terms of user-friendliness.
ubuntu is a other project dedicated to making linux user-friendly enough to  be used as a mainstream desktop os, and it's arguably the most successful  iteration toward that objective to date.
how powerful a cpu do you need?
we don't collect personal information unless you explicitly provide it.
philosophy: software should be available free of charge, software tools should  be usable by people in their local language and despite any disabilities, and  people should have the freedom to customize and alter their software in  whatever way they see fit.
a standard ubuntu install contains a selection of applications, including  openoffice 2.0 for word processing, spreadsheets, and presentations, the gimp  for image editing and the firefox web browser more.
join us on facebook.
mac fix home button delay, tablet the ultimate mobile pc, ipad notebook a  possibility, and more, ios news review, 2012.02.10.
it was an interesting trip, but i kept asking myself, "why would i want to put up with the aggravations and hassles of using linux on a computer that supports the mac os?
the machines he  has are powerful and up-to-date enough to run os x very comfortably.
linux also has the advantage of being free.
more links in our archive.
the main advantage, as i see it, of using a macintosh is that it runs the mac os, which is unmatched and unchallenged in terms of user-friendliness.
also which upgrades make sense for  an older powerbook or macbook.
safari  is adequate on mac and great on ios, but the range of good alternatives is  stunning.
ubuntu supports intel/amd pc hardware as well as power pc macs.
you can download the ubuntu desktopcd and test ubuntu without changing  anything on your computer.
my friend had read a feature in the local newspaper extolling the virtues  of ubuntu linux and thought it sounded interesting.
moving from pismo to macbook air, pros and cons of cheap pc laptops, and  more, charles moore's mailbag, 2012.01.23.
for price quotes and advertising information, please contact at backbeat media (646-546-5194).
on the other hand, for users of older mac hardware, particularly machines not supported by os x, linux is a way to give them a new lease on life with a modern, secure, and robust operating system that requires less power and processor overhead on their less-than-cutting-edge equipment.
email may be published at our discretion unless marked "not for publication"; email addresses will not be published without permission, and we will encrypt them in hopes of avoiding spammers.
logmein: remote screen sharing for the rest of us, alan zisman, zis mac,  2012.02.09.
macbook air vs. macbook pro, looking for a vertical macbook stand, and  se/30 internet tips, charles moore's mailbag, 2012.01.31.
switching from mac to linux?
however, bray recently expressed some sober second thought in a blog posting,
a 'best of miscellaneous ramblings' column charles moore - 2006.09.18 - tip jar a friend of mine phoned to ask if i thought he should install ubuntu linux  on his macs - a1.33 ghz g4 ibook currently running os x 10.4  "tiger" and a1.25 ghz power mac g4 tower with os x 10.3  "panther" installed.
white macbook goes end-of-life, logitech touch mouse supports gestures,  firmware updates, and more, the 'book review, 2012.02.10.
like  linux, os x gives you the stability and power of unix (albeit from  different branches of the unix family tree), but combined with the best graphic  user interface yet devised for personal computers, ease of software  installation, and, with rare exceptions, true plug and play - "it just  works" - with peripherals and networking support.
february 11 in lem history: 98: disposable modems - 00: setting up a mac  web server - small network backup solutions - 02:
ubuntu includes more than 16,000 pieces of software, but the core desktop  installation fits on a single cd.
if you want to keep ubuntu permanently, there is an easy installer right on the desktopcd.
the g3 processor was optimized for real world mac software and made  a big leap forward in efficiency.
or buy direct from strider software.
preparing your pci power mac for linux, larry stotler, linux on the low  end, 07.26.
if you  find his articles helpful,please consider making a donation to his tip jar.
15 years ago motorola unveiled the powerpc g3, low end mac round table,  2012.02.06.
installing linux on a pci power mac, part 1, larry stotler, linux on the  low end, 09.05.
you can download the ubuntu desktopcd and test ubuntu without changing anything on your computer.
don't install parallels to play poker online!
the caps lock key has a  useful function, the ipad's keyboard really is useful, and checking out an  adaptive keyboard for the ipad.
more in the miscellaneous ramblings index.
please report errors to .
linux supports older video cards and requires less ram than mac os  x, and it lets you run modern browsers not available under os 9.
macsurfer cult of mac shrine of apple macintouch myapplemenu infomac the mac observer accelerate your mac retromaccast pb central macwindows the vintage mac museum dealmac deal brothers mac2sell mac driver museum jag's house system 6 heaven system 7 today the pickle's low-end mac faq amazon.com the apple store the itunes store pc connection express gainsaver parallels desktop for mac ebay all of our advertising is handled by backbeat media.
preparing your pci power mac (or clone) for linux and getting  opensuse linux installed.
the ubuntu community is built on the ideas enshrined in the ubuntu
however, bray recently expressed some sober  second thought in a blog posting,
i've installed a couple of linux distros - suse and yellow dog - on macs in the past, partly as an exercise in curiosity.
share follow low end mac on twitter join low end mac on facebook typestyler 11 is now in the mac app store!!
poker mac will show you how to download and install a native mac poker andmac casino applications in minutes.
earlier this year, longtime mac programmers tim bray and mark pilgrim stirred the waters of the mac community by announcing that they were switching from mac os x to ubuntu.
apple's support lead shipping, smartphones outsell pcs, os x ported to arm  by intern, and more, mac news review, 2012.02.10.
we allow and encourage links to any public page as long as the linked page does not appear within a frame that prevents bookmarking it.
you may request cds at https://shipit.ubuntu.com maybe you'll like it; maybe not.
the best  known among the early mac clones.
configuring the mac's built-in screen sharing to work over the  internet can be difficult or impossible.
however, if you're interested in ubuntu, it's a complete linux-based operating system, freely available with both community and professional support being developed by a large community.
he's an experienced, but not especially tech-savvy, non-power user, and the geek aspect of linux would be of no interest or service to him.
a standard ubuntu install contains a selection of applications, including openoffice 2.0 for word processing, spreadsheets, and presentations, the gimp for image editing and the firefox web browser more.
do you need a  faster drive controller?
ubuntu is a other project dedicated to making linux user-friendly enough to be used as a mainstream desktop os, and it's arguably the most successful iteration toward that objective to date.