macs are ideal for people who want efficiency, multitasking abilities, and class.
the  hardware is also more compact and easier to carry-mac laptops are half as  clunky as pc laptops.
with user-friendly software and setup and an attractive exterior, mac laptops are perfect for sitting in starbucks, sipping some coffee and casually editing a film or reading a manuscript.
mac computers run only apple software, but pcs are much more flexible.
no can do on your mac, but it’s a cinch on a pc.
apple programs are constantly offering automatic updates to keep software improving as time progresses, without the user having to seek it out.
although apple’s word-processing program is not ideal, installing microsoft office on a mac is no problem.
by makenna | 1:33 pm | posted in feature | mac amber laird: staff writer
even for desktop computers, all parts of the computer are contained in one sleek frame.
although apple’s word-processing  program is not ideal, installing microsoft office on a mac is no problem.
with user-friendly software and setup and an attractive exterior, mac  laptops are perfect for sitting in starbucks, sipping some coffee and casually  editing a film or reading a manuscript.
malleable software and gaming are great, but they’re nothing compared to microsoft’s open-source operating system.
if not, firefox and chrome can easily be downloaded.
the hardware is also more compact and easier to carry-mac laptops are half as clunky as pc laptops.
users have the  option of buying individual parts and putting their computer together  themselves.
you can choose the software you like and essentially – or literally if you’d like – put your computer together yourself.
coming  equipped with ilife, apple computers appeal to creative types.
they’re the complete package.
designers at apple, inc. are constantly finding ways to minimize volume while maximizing screen space.
the software is simple to change and updates can be easily found on the internet.
your email address will not be published.
if they choose to purchase a whole computer, they can easily set up  users and firewalls.
if they choose to purchase a whole computer, they can easily set up users and firewalls.
do these functions appeal to you?
required fields are marked * name * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:                posts
users construct their own workspace, using sticky notes, exposé, or simply dragging windows across the screen.
pc sofi goode: staff writer pcs, or personal computers, appeal to a tech-savvy audience, allowing the  user to set up their own computer, run video games and easily access all of  their files.
designers at apple, inc. are constantly finding  ways to minimize volume while maximizing screen space.
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:              © 2010, ↑ tiger online log in-
microsoft computers have  ample gigabytes of memory and ram (random access memory, which allows for  faster computer use) to download and play large games.
want to create your own program or download a game that your friend created?
a huge asset to microsoft is the gaming industry.
editing videos  is a cinch, as is organizing photos.
leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
a mac computer is an efficient workspace.
since pcs are designed to hold larger files and run much larger and more complicated programs than macs, there is no doubt that pcs are superior when it comes to gaming.
users have the option of buying individual parts and putting their computer together themselves.
apple programs are constantly offering automatic updates to keep software  improving as time progresses, without the user having to seek it out.
are you a mac or a pc?
viruses on macs are minimal, a result of the combination of better virus protection and the fact that there just aren’t as many mac viruses out there as pc viruses.
want to create your own program or  download a game that your friend created?
macs are user-friendly and generally cooperative.
typically, computer  games come out for pcs months prior to the mac release – if there’s  a mac release at all.
no can do on your mac, but it’s  a cinch on a pc.
posts - add new - powered by wordpress - designed by gabfire themes
they’re very straightforward, never providing encrypted, confusing messages.
mac designers focus on intuitive, highly visual designs.
viruses on macs are minimal, a result of the combination of better virus  protection and the fact that there just aren’t as many mac viruses out  there as pc viruses.
editing videos is a cinch, as is organizing photos.
the software is simple to change and updates can be easily  found on the internet.
one can run multiple programs at once, switching between them with ease and minimal problems.
coming equipped with ilife, apple computers appeal to creative types.
then there’s no question; you’re a pc person!
in terms of internet navigation, many mac users are satisfied with safari.
recording, buying, and listening to music  are all made easy with apple programs.
it’s not that all mac users are technologically illiterate, they just like macs exactly as they come.
then  there’s no question; you’re a pc person!
it’s not that all mac users are technologically illiterate, they just  like macs exactly as they come.
even for desktop computers, all parts of the computer are  contained in one sleek frame.
if you understand technology and like to arrange things your own way, pcs  are for you.
pc sofi goode: staff writer pcs, or personal computers, appeal to a tech-savvy audience, allowing the user to set up their own computer, run video games and easily access all of their files.
although it may occasionally give you the error message, your pc  will never hide your files or deny access to the software necessary to update  your programs or fix a problem.
on microsoft computers, the software is more malleable.
to those who understand computers, pcs are easier to use.
if you understand technology and like to arrange things your own way, pcs are for you.
macs are user-friendly and  generally cooperative.
macs are ideal for people who want efficiency, multitasking abilities, and  class.
users construct  their own workspace, using sticky notes, exposé, or simply dragging  windows across the screen.
mac computers run only apple  software, but pcs are much more flexible.
you can choose  the software you like and essentially – or literally if you’d like  – put your computer together yourself.
microsoft computers have ample gigabytes of memory and ram (random access memory, which allows for faster computer use) to download and play large games.
mac designers focus on intuitive, highly visual  designs.
recording, buying, and listening to music are all made easy with apple programs.
one can run multiple programs at  once, switching between them with ease and minimal problems.
although it may occasionally give you the error message, your pc will never hide your files or deny access to the software necessary to update your programs or fix a problem.
typically, computer games come out for pcs months prior to the mac release – if there’s a mac release at all.
since pcs are designed to hold larger files and run much  larger and more complicated programs than macs, there is no doubt that pcs are  superior when it comes to gaming.
malleable software and gaming are great, but they’re nothing compared  to microsoft’s open-source operating system.
they’re very straightforward, never providing  encrypted, confusing messages.