you may download a zip file or rar file on a windows computer, which will  need to be extracted to get to the files.
for example, compression formats.
please enable javascript to view thecomments powered by disqus.
and .app are the major file formats for  installing programs and applications on macs and pcs.
aside from the file extension name .app, there is not much else to it.
if you have not yet read the other pages in the series, it is strongly recommended that you do so.
check out some of the recommended series articles below, as  they detail more about windows and mac os x.
picking a  winner between the two operating systems is quickly becoming a controversial  topic.
windows 7 vs. mac os x - conclusion click to enlarge
blog comments powered bydisqus mac platform - appletv - ilife - itunes - iwork - mac computer reviews - mac os x - mac os x server - mac peripherals & accessories - mac user tips - news & views - software reviews featured authors most popular articles - windows and mac: differences in everyday operating system use - how to erase your history and cache from safari - a detailed guide - tips on imac fan control - save space by shrinking your pdf files - hiding the dock in mac os x - a quick guide - what are the advantages and disadvantages of mac os?
both mac os andwindows 7  are very different, but very alike as well.
many people will say that unix is a more secure platform, but that is much of an opinion.
so, if  you download and install a new program on your mac, it will almost certainly be  a .app file.
each respective operating system offers an alterantive to the competitor, even for photo editing and video editing.
windows 7 vs. mac os x - unix click to enlarge mac os x is a unix based operating system, which to say the most, is a bit more technical than most people would care for.
- installing mac os on a pc - what you need - how to clean install mac os x 10.7 lion about bright hub contact us advertise with us rss site map terms of use privacy policy copyright policy ©2012 bright hub inc.
there will be links for them at the bottom of this page.
for example, many consider macs to be more simple, but windows pcs to be more powerful.
click to enlarge however, macs and pcs use some common file formats as well.
basically, unix involves the platform on which an operating system is built,  how it functions, and the coding behind it.
each respective operating system offers an alterantive to the  competitor, even for photo editing and video editing.
windows and mac: differences in everyday operating system use - 3.
there will be links for them at the  bottom of this page.
windows 7 vs. mac os x - unix click to enlarge mac os x is a unix based operating system,  which to say the most, is a bit more technical than most people would care for.
click to enlarge showing page 5 of 5 « prev 1  ... 345
mainly, everything previous  to this page covers the basic differences in windows 7 vs. mac os x operating  system use, and also reviews windows 7 vs. mac os x media capabilities.
microsoft likes to come out with many of it's own standards.
for example, many consider macs to  be more simple, but windows pcs to be more powerful.
so, if you download and install a new program on your mac, it will almost certainly be a .app file.
is one operating system better for everyday use?
the benefits of mac vs. pc - 4.
windows 7 vs. mac os x - technical differences click to enlarge windows 7utilizes a major program format of .exe.
email to a friend * * leave a personal message (optional) be notified of new quizes in this topic sign up for the newsletter
download a free antivirus application for mac os x lion!
| browse site - business - computing - education - electronics - engineering - environment - finances - gaming - internet - mobile - multimedia - science - hubfolio bright hub 2 comments home > computing > mac > mac os x windows and mac: differences in everyday operating system use (page 5 of 5) written by: nicholas • edited by: michael dougherty updated nov 14, 2010 • related guides: windows 7 | mac os x | operating system windows 7 vs. mac os x for everyday computer use click to enlarge
.app's typically do not work on windows pcs, and .exe's typically do not  work on macs, at least not by default.
sign up for our newsletter mac channel news | view all news please, enter valid email.
macs are essentially the same, as  they use the compressed zip and rar format as well.
at this  point, it's quite clear that windows 7 andmac os x are quite similar to each  other.
click to enlarge showing page 5 of 5 « prev 1 ... 345 comments | flag understanding macs - mac vs pc this four part series details the simple differences between macs and pcs, the advantages of mac vs pc, and concludes with which is better, mac or pc.
for everyday computer use, mac os x  is really not that difficult to get used to, if you are switching from pc.
.app is a mac format.
alternatively, windows 7 is not that difficult to get used to if you are  switching from mac.
for everyday computer use, mac os x is really not that difficult to get used to, if you are switching from pc.
to better understand the major differences in the mac vs. pc battle, be sue to check out the other series articles.
other than what is already covered, there are some more technical aspects of each operating system, which we will cover next.
understanding macs - differences between mac and pc - 2.
windows is not unix based, and has it's own unique build.
you can run windows apps on a mac using vmware fusion, other virtualization software, or bootcamp.
at this point, it's quite clear that windows 7 andmac os x are quite similar to each other.
aside from the file extension name .app, there is not much else to  it.
you can run windows apps on a mac using vmware fusion, other virtualization  software, or bootcamp.
picking a winner between the two operating systems is quickly becoming a controversial topic.
- setting an alarm in ical - worried about viruses on your mac?
for example, if you  download and install a new program on your pc, it will almost always be of .exe
many people will  say that unix is a more secure platform, but that is much of an opinion.
you may download a zip file or rar file on a windows computer, which will need to be extracted to get to the files.
home   > computing  >  mac  >  mac os x windows and mac: differences in everyday operating system use (page 5 of 5) written by: nicholas  • edited by: michael dougherty updated nov 14, 2010  • related guides: windows 7 | mac os x |  operating system windows 7 vs. mac os x for everyday computer use click to enlarge if you have not yet read the other pages in the  series, it is strongly recommended that you do so.
macs are essentially the same, as they use the compressed zip and rar format as well.
alternatively, windows 7 is not that difficult to get used to if you are switching from mac.
both mac os andwindows 7 are very different, but very alike as well.
this article was mainly written to note some differences between general mac vs. pc equivalents.
and .app are the major file formats for installing programs and applications on macs and pcs.
.app's typically do not work on windows pcs, and .exe's typically do not work on macs, at least not by default.
however, apple does the same thing.
for example,  compression formats.
for example, if you download and install a new program on your pc, it will almost always be of .exe format.
basically, unix involves the platform on which an operating system is built, how it functions, and the coding behind it.
check out some of the recommended series articles below, as they detail more about windows and mac os x.
other than what is already covered, there are some more technical aspects  of each operating system, which we will cover next.
this article was mainly written to note some  differences between general mac vs. pc equivalents.
to better understand the major differences in the mac vs. pc battle, be  sue to check out the other series articles.
which is better - mac or pc?
for example, .net and silverlight.
mac os x utilizes a major program format of .app.
above, it was mentioned that .exe
powered by the parse.ly publisher platform (p3).
mainly, everything previous to this page covers the basic differences in windows 7 vs. mac os x operating system use, and also reviews windows 7 vs. mac os x media capabilities.
aside from the name .exe, there is not much that else to it.