well, i hope my  little review helps, have a great day, and have a great time with the new  programs!!!
for those 4 i just manually entered in the bpm, and then i was all  done.
also, did i mention, beatunes si free for 7 days, after that trial period, i believe it only costs, $30 bucks.
well i  searched around and didn't find a thread about bpm analyzer's.
it has many customizable options, and is very easy to use,  even for the not so technically inclined.
many dj's are "switching up" to computers as the new way to dj.
this is better than manually entering in your bpm's for thousands of songs, as  this can take for ever!!!
djgold professional mobile disc jockeys skip to content » guest home » member home advanced search - board index ‹ djgold - professional mobile dj's ‹ digital dj's - computer audio, video & lighting - change font size - print view two good bpm counter/analyzer for mac and pc.
for 7,000 songs took 3 days to analyze on a g4 1.67ghz laptop, and it is very accurate, it even has decimels ex: 96.4 bpms
many dj's are  "switching up" to computers as the new way to dj.
as more and more dj's are converting to laptops and digital libraries, the advantage's and feature's are improving all the time.
it has many customizable options, and is very easy to use, even for the not so technically inclined.
out of 7,000+ songs it only had trouble with 4, not bad at all, in my opinion.
they provide near-instant access to large song lists and can be integrated to control video and dmx lighting.
• delete all board cookies • all times are utc - 5 hours
so i would suggest leaving the analyzing option where it is or even sliding it towardfaster.
all in all, beatunes, is stable, if your  worried about it messing things up just select to analyze a couple albums, and  see for your self.
also, did i mention, beatunes si free for 7 days, after that  trial period, i believe it only costs, $30 bucks.
it also has a sliding scale option of analyzing, that looks kinda like this.
so i, about a week ago, i found  beatuneshttp://www.beatunes.com/  for mac, and now i can tell you what i think  about it.
they are ideal for running at home or left running over night as they will work in the background, you can still surf the net, etc, while it anyalyzes your whole library, it then automatically enters in the information into itunes for you.
but,  have heard many good things from many other dj boards.
so how do analyzers work??
all in all, beatunes, is stable, if your worried about it messing things up just select to analyze a couple albums, and see for your self.
login two good bpm counter/analyzer for mac and pc.
but, have heard many good things from many other dj boards.
they are  ideal for running at home or left running over night as they will work in the  background, you can still surf the net, etc, while it anyalyzes your whole  library, it then automatically enters in the information into itunes for you.
i personally left it at the default which is right in the middle.
moderator: dave miller 1  post • page1 of 1 two good bpm counter/analyzer for mac and pc.
one great option is, you can tell it to only analyze the songs without the bpm's, so if you already have half your library with bpm's it will only analyze the other half.
top - dj sean - active member - - posts: 280 - joined: sun apr 16, 2006 12:35 am - location: south lake tahoe, ca - post a reply 1 post • page1 of 1 return to digital dj's - computer audio, video & lighting jump to: select a forum ------------------
djgold - professional mobile dj's general discussion gear - equipment - sound & lighting music & videos dj business management, marketing & sales digital dj's - computer audio, video & lighting weddings & formal events djgold university: education for pro mobile dj's support & suggestions member suggestions bug reports who is online users browsing this forum: no registered users and 1 guest - view unanswered posts • view active topics - board index - the team
out of 7,000+ songs it only had trouble with 4, not bad at all, in my  opinion.
as more and  more dj's are converting to laptops and digital libraries, the advantage's and  feature's are improving all the time.
so i would suggest  leaving the analyzing option where it is or even sliding it towardfaster.
well i searched around and didn't find a thread about bpm analyzer's.
for those 4 i just manually entered in the bpm, and then i was all done.
on beat productions professional dj service for all of northern california and nevada.
[dst ] powered by phpbb website © 2002-2011 djgold.com world wide web services provided by goldrack.com programming sponsored by smithfield entertainment, llc and silver star djs
it  also has a sliding scale option of analyzing, that looks kinda like this.
well, i hope my little review helps, have a great day, and have a great time with the new programs!!!
this is better than manually entering in your bpm's for thousands of songs, as this can take for ever!!!
for 7,000 songs took 3 days to analyze on a g4 1.67ghz laptop, and it is very  accurate, it even has decimels ex: 96.4 bpms
moderator: dave miller post a reply 1 post • page1 of 1 two good bpm counter/analyzer for mac and pc.
on beat productions http://www.theeventdj.com/ professional dj service for all of northern california and nevada.
» tue jul 25, 2006 5:43 pm
and you can probably  find many reviews of it as well.
there is a similar program for pc called mix meister http://www.mixmeister.com/download.html i have not used this prog
analyzing option fastest-----------|------------more accurate.
they provide  near-instant access to large song lists and can be integrated to control video  and dmx lighting.
so i, about a week ago, i found beatuneshttp://www.beatunes.com/ for mac, and now i can tell you what i think about it.
and you can probably find many reviews of it as well.
one great option is, you can  tell it to only analyze the songs without the bpm's, so if you already have  half your library with bpm's it will only analyze the other half.