i actually like the fact that they are giving ms a little competition.
i have to be so careful with  pcs...
we need to hear more from apple, obviously, but it's hard to imagine, in the midst of their "green-up" why apple would switch to bodies that are impossible to open for repairs.
... written by daniel wallker, february 08, 2009 i went to a school where every student received a mac on entering.
it is rotting in the garage as we  speak.
warranty? written by ashley, january 23, 2008 are you serious brainiac?
with apple you usually can't build your own or even can't upgrade your equipment then run mac os.
i have heard reports that the zune is better anyway.
they  can be taken apart, but it is pretty much impossible to do it without damaging  the case, this is alluded to in every disassembly discussion i've seen.
i just wish people would consider the long term savings of green more!
if you don't own gadgets like this you do not have to get them fixed, recycled, maintained.
but your home  made pc, although still running, will be equally worthless - unless you are  talking about the box having a load of upgraded parts in it
... written by freebiejeebies, november 30, 2010 ofcourse apple woulden't have that!
he's  recently expanded his business to cover iphones, zunes, and gaming systems, and  is about to expand even further into cell phones and laptops.
i bought the mac in taiwan.
damn thing takes 15 minutes to start.
never have i damaged the au case, maybe the ant cover, but thats a cheap part.
her other sister's ipod: utterly stopped working.
the damage is cosmetic, but  significantly decreases resale value, and be unacceptable to people seeking  repairs.
i also have a toshiba satellite laptop with from 2006.
it gets tiring trying to maintain them...
i have been  through 5 different types of pc's in the last three years ranging from gateways  to sonys, and they all result in the same thing... useless computers that need  to be restarted every time i open up word, or want to print a file online.
far from the free spirit image they project.
it does not  mean you are stupid for buying their products, just that apples ad execs are  doing their job.
i have been through 5 different types of pc's in the last three years ranging from gateways to sonys, and they all result in the same thing... useless computers that need to be restarted every time i open up word, or want to print a file online.
and that other suppliers and designers would follow  apple some more sometimes : )
(i've seen the "story of stuff" video mentioned previously, and it really fits with the computer industry, especially).
her other sister's ipod: utterly  stopped working.
of course build-it-yourself geeks out there can upgrade and repair and do all sorts of fun stuff like overclocking and the like, but we are talking about typical consumer wares here.
about final cut, you should try porting a piece of software that complex to another operating system.
my ipod is a 4th generation classic, from july 2004.
+0 re: protective written by pete, january 22, 2008 this comment is utter tosh.
(and less waste, too.)
the damage is cosmetic, but significantly decreases resale value, and be unacceptable to people seeking repairs.
written by hank green  on 19/01/08 for a while now i've been in communication with brett mosley, the guy who  started "buymytronics.com."
that's because, in order to take the back cover off the iphone, you have to spend many minutes delicately prying the metal slab up.
i just think that some of their equipment is less then spectacular.
just talk about the facts!!
but it comes down to the fact that, when choosing between extending the  life of their gadgets and making things look pretty, apple is landing on the  side of pretty.
every electron you push in and pull back out diminishes the capacity a bit.
do a google search for "iphone disassemble" and  there are instructions and videos with the details.
apple is forcing people into using their extremely expensive repair  services, which often make buying a new device cheaper.
atleast only crashed 4 or 5 times.
apple's website displays on it's main page, bottom center, how to re-cycle any mp3, computer or mobile phone for free .
because the nano, iphone and generation 6 "classic" bodies  are metal to metal the body gets completely trashed upon opening.
in my experience so far.
but brett is upset, and that makes me upset.
pc repairs 7 so far (fingers crossed).
most people realise that computers are like cars - you buy what you  like and what works for you.
i have a couple of pre 2000 macs that are still running fine and one of them even runs tiger.
i  know a number of people who buy apple products because the products always  break within the first 6 months and they're then given a new one.
do a google search for "iphone disassemble" and there are instructions and videos with the details.
i loved how easy it was to take apart and upgrade or fix - i put a new hard drive in it myself, and of course, stuff like memory was easy.
seriously... all computers suck, and vista makes my new pc run ten times as slow.
its not my fault or apples fault that the average jackass can't use a $10 15w iron from radio shack and replace a battery.
so goes with the new "generation" of apple products, it is the same crap, different marketing.
write the displayed characters add comment please enable javascript to post a new comment  are you an ecogeek?
no dvd drive means can't install newer os, old os is utterly incompatible.
... written by bob, january 21, 2008 it sounds to me like there might be potential in after-market/post-repair cases for these devices.
i did however read all the comments.
i always find myself using my old powerbook at  the end of the day to finalize my work.
if they wanted you to take it apart then there would  be instructions, and a little button that says open.
you save money, create less pollution, use fewer resources.
re: protective written by pete, january 22, 2008 this comment is utter tosh.
i am not saying that pcs are all  bad....
apparently, the sixth generation ipods and the current ipod nano have been designed to be 100% unfixable.
angelo, it's long over, you can come out of your  bunker now.
no fence, but even if they did put an open button people wouldn't know what to do with it.
i wish i was smart/knowledgable enough to do it myself : )
iphone disassembly written by hank, january 22, 2008 instructables has a video of a disassembled iphone, what they don't have is the video of the disassembling process...
mac is actually going further and further down on my scale of like-ability.www.clovercrusade.blogspot.com re:re: protective written by dc, january 25, 2008 except nobody started the war until you opened your fat gob.
apple  computers as a whole have only failed me on a few memorable occasions.
so, for me, it will be harder to fix these,  increasing repair costs and diminishing their resale value after they have been  repaired.
i just think that some of their equipment  is less then spectacular.
unless this video is an elaborate hoax, it shows  that the device can indeed be taken apart without damaging any of its  components.
long-lasting, durable, upgradable, and fixable are just as, maybe more important than recyclable.
a 1000 dollar mac from 2002 is worthless.
ok it may not be worth a lot now
i have a powerbook g4 from 2003.
it would be good to hear what apple have written by weee  recycling, january 21, 2008 about their official line is on this.
+0 ... written by ces, january 21, 2008
if you like to be cool you have to pay.
the result is, generally, a lot of wasted  time and a slightly dented iphone panel.
+0 written by bob, january 21, 2008 it  sounds to me like there might be potential in after-market/post-repair cases  for these devices.
why do numbskulls have to  perpetuate the mac/pc war?
only one other laptop made it to the  genius bar during my visit.
this is all to say nothing of the fact that is underperformed similarlly priced pcs from day 1.
most people realise that computers are like cars - you buy what you like and what works for you.
type what you want to know about in there.
not only that, but they replaced my out of warranty macbook with the new model.
i can tell you that both apple laptops have totally crashed and needed repair...one of them twice.
+0 written by stewwy, january 22, 2008 its all about forced consumption.
all the energy of production and transport and packaging contributes to how "green" a product is - a less recyclable machine with a longer "shelf life" and more accessible repairs and upgrades would, in the end, be much greener than a "merely" recyclable machine.
apparently, the sixth  generation ipods and the current ipod nano have been designed to be 100%  unfixable.
if there wasn't this whole "green" buzzword and image branding opportunity for them they wouldn't give a hoot about it.
is it just me that suspects apple has one of the largest return rates of all the manufacturers of notebooks as well as mp3 players.
my point is not all problems with macs are just mac problems... angelo!
the service is cheap.
it's just a matter of how easy it is to repair.
the less you buy the more you save.
is it  really that hard to figure out?
it is like buying a car that needs your most undivided attention (all the time).
it's like  recycling, but way better, because the gadgets get to keep living.
if you could match up the hardware of the pc with the mac os it would be great, but apple won't have that.
the sony was bought from the sony metreon back when i was in sf.
making these models more difficult to repair is invariably  un-green in the long run.
is it really that hard to figure out?
all manufactures should, in their own best interests (read the great book "green to gold"), prominently describe to their customers how to do this easily and effectively.
about that imac, you could probably turn it into a wired network server.
the sony was bought from the  sony metreon back when i was in sf.
genius bar was  always packed (for some strange reason).
it's just a  matter of how easy it is to repair.
despite having a need for a pc all the time (i use cad and solidworks)...
i myself have had several macs over the years as well as a couple of ipods.
google, as always, is your best friend here.
here is a summary of the apple products i see around me.
but most importantly, the ultimate point of the article was to show that modifications can't be made, and therefore can't be recycled, so buying a warranty with apple is essentially perpetuating the problem... am i wrong?
now i'm thinking of getting a new macbook, since mine is a powerbook...
kinda the opposite of green there.
remember that it has been undergoing repairs for quite a while, and some of the best computer experts in the city have looked at it.
but thanks to apple's greed, i cannot run final cut on my  computer because they only let their computers run it.
that was one of the main reasons i  stopped buying apple and went and bought a taiwanese made pc instead.
at least until something breaks that cannot be fixed.
+0 warranty written by brainiac, january 23, 2008 all you really have to do is buy the warranty on any apple product.
i actually like the fact that they  are giving ms a little competition.
they wouldn't be perfect, but they would be usable.
maybe he just needs the right tools... written by robert thille, january 22, 2008 ifixit.com has photos of disassembly of the latest ipods, and it didn't look like they had to destroy the case to get it open...
it has some useful  tools on it that allow you to choose a media player by comparing all of the  features.
when you wear the battery out to the point it doesn't last long enough for your replace the battery.
i agree that the people there are idiots, but most people  bringing their laptops are idiots!
story of stuff written by stewwy, january 22, 2008 its all about forced consumption.
they are likely replacing the case in every repair job they actually do.
apple computers as a whole have only failed me on a few memorable occasions.
ecogeek.org cialis online --> jan 19 recent comment "ofcourse apple woulden't have that!
... written by brynn, january 24, 2008 hmm that'll make me think twice before buying another ipod.
that is why i pay money for  machines to help me do my work... not the other way around.
girlfriend's 2002 imac: cost $1000 dollars and is worthless.
all of this kinda flies in the face of apple's new green image.
and another thing... apple products are not meant to be taken apart.
if you want an appointment at the apple "genius bar" you need to  actually make one.
also, i should say that my friend's dual g4 is still an  awesome computer after 5 years, it is just that it cost 3000 new, and my $500  pc is still better.
call and apple store and speak to one of the 6-8 managers they have next time you have a problem.
apple owners are so protective of apple.
-1 written by immrlizard, january 22, 2008 http://www.anythingbutipod.com/ there is a good site for those
that said, i do like apple products, or business class hp...
don't buy written by horia, march 08, 2008
it has some useful tools on it that allow you to choose a media player by comparing all of the features.
but what if they had?
i've been able to pass my old computers, including the ancient little classic mac i started with, on to folks who can use them - freecycle is great for that!
a sony laptop from 2001.
a 1000 dollar imac  will still run quite happily.
apple stopped making  the airport card for it.
because the nano, iphone and generation 6 "classic" bodies are metal to metal the body gets completely trashed upon opening.
in all cases with the windows pc laptops... they all crash within the first 3 days of use... mind you i bought them brand new.
fyi, iphone disassembly video that describes the process...
by reducing their future re-use, value and lifespan, apple is basically saying, "these gadgets are no use after two years, so send them back to us for recycling, and buy a new one." email this hits: 63430 comments (40) subscribe to this comment's feed
i asked brett if apple maybe had special tools that allowed the to repair these metal-to-metal devices: besides charging you hundreds to fix it (which makes it more economical for most to just get a new one) they probably have to give it a whole new body whenever they open one.
as a matter of fact i am typing this on my "hackint0sh".
that was one of the main reasons i stopped buying apple and went and bought a taiwanese made pc instead.
i swore from that day forward to only ever  buy a linux-based media player.
for example:i wouldn't by an mp3 player that you couldn't easily replace the battery.
regarding the new macbook and "being just as sturdy as the plastic macbook".
i repair music players for a living...
their service sucked and was expensive.
according to brett, the new generations of ipods and the iphone are not designed to be opened.
else don't buy ... written by horia, march 08, 2008
we need to hear more from apple,  obviously, but it's hard to imagine, in the midst of their "green-up"  why apple would switch to bodies that are impossible to open for repairs.
... written by ces, january 21, 2008 the iphone and ipod are not soldered together and can be disassembled without damaging the devices.
this is all to say nothing of the fact that is underperformed similarlly  priced pcs from day 1.
i bought my creative labs zen touch over 4 years ago
national geographic story on e-waste says even the places that claim they will  recycle your electronics safely often export them to developing countries which  use unsafe methods to extract valuable metals from them: http://ngm.nationalgeographic....text.html ouch!
it is like buying a car that needs your  most undivided attention (all the time).
they are secretive about all of the little breakdowns and replaced mice and  software upgrade incompatibility and expired file permissions.
apple, on the other hand, along with sony, panasonic, pioneer, toyota, honda, john deere and caterpillar, have all earned well established reputations for producing high qualityhard good products because of well thought out designs and first class quality control systems.
it still did most of what you "need" a word processing program to do today.
we got it back a couple of weeks ago and it kept dying due to a loose power connection (we think).
angelo, it's long over, you can come out of your bunker now.
the result is, generally, a lot of wasted time and a slightly dented iphone panel.
i can easily open all of them without damage to upgrade ram, hds or change batteries--it's easy to find the simple tools needed and "how-to" explanations or videos on the opening process.
written by leonard, january 26, 2008
i don’t know how they could make a repair without trashing the body.
no dvd drive means can't install newer os,  old os is utterly incompatible.
the aluminium and glass used in the imac, macbook, and macbook pro are highly recyclable.
please do some more research in the future before publishing defamatory statements about things that you believe, but do not know for certain.
her sisters ipod: less than one year old, battery lasts 20 minutes.
i think it's sad, and i've also referred a bunch more of my friends to the refurbished gadgets site...
there is no mac vs. pc war because there is no company called "pc".
i asked brett if apple maybe had special tools that  allowed the to repair these metal-to-metal devices: besides charging you hundreds to fix it (which makes it more  economical for most to just get a new one) they probably have to give it a  whole new body whenever they open one.
just one greedy, sneaky company called apple.
according to brett, the new generations of ipods and the iphone are not designed to  be opened.
however, as much as i like the software company, microsoft has a long established history of poor quality workmanship in itshardware division--just google the many thousands of painful real life reports associated with the xbox and the original zune.
that is one of the ways to sort all of the  equipment on this site.
and yes it does run nearly as fast as my macbook.
in my  experience so far.
i written by marcos, january 24, 2008 why does every comment forum about anything apple-related spiral downward into a stupid pro vs. anti mac war?
wow a corporation who does things only f written by jack, april 13, 2008
but then that isn't the same machine you started with.
i have to be so careful with pcs...
please do some more research in the future before publishing  defamatory statements about things that you believe, but do not know for  certain.
pc's are made by many different companies and quality ranges from one to the next.
that is how they supplement income from good products.
as much as i love my macbook pro, i'd have to recommend a pc.
i got them from the school when they upgraded.
that's because, in order  to take the back cover off the iphone, you have to spend many minutes  delicately prying the metal slab up.
written by farhad abdolian, january 23, 2008 ever since the good old days of apple ii, they have changed their strategy to something that is not for us, to touch.
ridiculous comments doing down the opposition are for kids.
my friends ipod: wont let him transfer certain music from his computer.
apple truths written by jeff, august 21, 2008 i have owned more than 10 pc's (own a small business) and now 2 apples plus 5 ipods.
and they keep making new software that is better and better in some ways, but if you keep your old machines running, after a while, you can't run any of it any more.
i kept, for the longest time, a copy of wordperfect 1.0 - on a small floppy disk (remember those?) with all my files on there, too!
i have a couple of pre 2000 macs  that are still running fine and one of them even runs tiger.
we've got to keep 7 billion people happy without destroying our planet.
the iphone is simple to open up (i have no idea what this article is talking about) -- the nano is a bit more tough.
after all these years, the pb with 1.25ghz is still going strong  and have never broken down on me.
i appreciate and admire quality wherever i find it.
in the nanos  and shuffles, parts are actually soldered together, eliminating the  possiblility of simple repair.
my friend's toshiba satellite laptop has been in the repair shop almost constantly for about a year now.
by reducing their future re-use, value and lifespan,  apple is basically saying, "these gadgets are no use after two years, so  send them back to us for recycling, and buy a new one." email this subscribe to this comment's  feed
written by ashley, january 23, 2008 are you serious brainiac?
love my xps m1330 though!
+2 iphone disassembly written by hank, january 22, 2008 instructables has a video of a disassembled iphone, what they don't have  is the video of the disassembling process...
never  knew the cause.
it still works just fine, and the battery lasts long enough.
if they wanted you to take it apart then there would be instructions, and a little button that says open.
2 of 5 ipods have broken though more due to negligence than anything else.
they switched to green technologies well before they were regulated.
i agree that the new zune is much easier to open and repair, but that's largely due to its plastic shell, which isn't readily recyclable like the ipod/iphone's aluminum anyway, and can occasionally crack...
that is why i pay money for machines to help me do my work... not the other way around.
that's the iphone, the nano is actually physically impossible to take apart without ripping solders.
i think it's sad, and i've also referred a  bunch more of my friends to the refurbished gadgets site...
... written by angelo, january 22, 2008 apple owners, there is no need to be so protective.
damn thing takes 15 minutes to  start.
warranty written by brainiac, january 23, 2008 all you really have to do is buy the warranty on any apple product.
everything breaks down eventually.
but thanks to apple's greed, i cannot run final cut on my computer because they only let their computers run it.
install linux if you want.
universal awareness of gadget re-cycling is more important than petty mac vs pc kaka.
it just happens to fit with their whole "wow were so unique and hip and cool and fresh" image.
i also own 5 pc laptops which are also relatively easy to open and upgrade (though not nearly as easy as the macs).
its 20f here, and it still runs, my car needs work, and thanks to the g3 i will have it done, while listening to the latest tool album.
i don’t know how they could make a  repair without trashing the body.
and it's still running stronger than any ipod i've come across.
it seems they've been making it harder and harder for do it yourselfers.
you do realize that macs come with software, and for pcs it usually costs extra unless it would be free anyway (e.g. dell shipping pcs with ubuntu).
i have had a very different experience.. written by michael chen, january 23, 2008 uh..
you can use something called a search engine, e.g. google, to find it.
in my family we have 4 ipod which are used a lot and have never missed a beat in two years.
written by christopher whaley, november 23, 2008 i'm laughing hard, very hard, i think my oj is coming out of my nose.
but your home made pc, although still running, will be equally worthless - unless you are talking about the box having a load of upgraded parts in it
it seems the nature of the computer business to make your older models obsolete with newer models - different memory configuration so you can never use your extra memory in your new machine, different everything.
never knew the cause.
took me less than an hour to assemble.
http://www.ifixit.com/guide/ipod/ipod-nano-3rd-generation http://www.ifixit.com/guide/ipod/ipod-classic are you sure this isn't just apple bashing for publicity like greenpeace has taken to lately?
@naturegeek: i agree that locking oneself to a particular manufacturer is strange.
here is a summary of the apple products  i see around me.
i think everyone is missing the real issue though.
but i might just have the worst luck with them.
subscribe via rss follow us on twitter follow us on stumble upon the most popular articles - progression of us cities reaching solar grid parity - kodak switching from camera film to thin-film solar cells - solar panel startup achieves amazing 33.9% efficiency - nasa releases updated video showing warming temperatures since 1880 - president obama's new budget includes $10,000 ev rebate categories - agriculture - alternative materials - architecture - ask the ecogeek - automobiles - biofuels - computers and gadgets - cop14 - digitizing - ecogeeks - efficiency - environmental software - geothermal - human powered - hydrogen - monitoring pollution - power storage - preventing pollution - recycling - solar power - wave and tidal power - weird - wind power
the toshiba here in london.
i also have a dell desktop bought in  early 2007.
it slows down and breaks over time but in my experience it has never completely broken on me.
works fine, i do this for a laptop with a broken dvd.
apple computer: thinkindifferent ipod repairs written by anechoic, january 22, 2008 i took my laptop to monkeys at the apple 'genius bar' (i use the term genius very loosely in this case)...while waiting i saw 10 people all bringing their ipods in for some reason or another.
http://www.ifixit.com/guide/ipod/ipod-nano-3rd-generation http://www.ifixit.com/guide/ipod/ipod-classic are you sure this isn't  just apple bashing for publicity like greenpeace has taken to lately?
-2 protective written by angelo, january 22, 2008 everyone i know has a broken ipod.
this being said, i'm not a "fanboy" either way.
despite having a need for a pc all the time  (i use cad and solidworks)...
apple is forcing people into using their extremely expensive repair services, which often make buying a new device cheaper.
a computer that ts working enough time to do my job.
apple computer:  thinkindifferent ipod repairs written by anechoic, january 22, 2008 i took my laptop to monkeys at the apple 'genius bar' (i use the term  genius very loosely in this case)...while waiting i saw 10 people all bringing  their ipods in for some reason or another.
karsten -- http://www.polluteless.com practical advice to pollute less angelo: fix your stuff written by jims, january 24, 2008 girlfriends imac: no dvd.
unless this video is an elaborate hoax, it shows that the device can indeed be taken apart without damaging any of its components.
i have reinstalled the windows os two times since buying it.
+0 irreparable written by marilyn terrell, january 22,  2008 bummer!
and best of all you do not encourage the production of more crap.
he  also surmises that they might be trying to discourage the market in repairs and  mods that fuel his and many other businesses.
plus,  if you're going to assume the appointment of genius tech wiz...
why ts everybody so in loved with some objects.
plus, if you're going to assume the appointment of genius tech wiz...
it died about every ten minutes.
i  also have a toshiba satellite laptop with from 2006.
i always find myself using my old powerbook at the end of the day to finalize my work.
a 1000 dollar imac will still run quite happily.
not  wanting to perpetuate apple's stranglehold on media players.
their products are designed with recycling in mind.
i shouldn't give in, but i want the 250gb hard drive!
i use macs at home, dell pcs with winxp at school, and i have some extra pcs at home.
apple  products are not designed to be modified and they are doing everything they can  to prevent the user from doing so.
i don't suggest mentioning you've been through 5 computers in 3 years and still haven't figured out how to modify/speed them up or that you run vista (as i'd assume most computer literate people have been wary about the os jump or have moved on to more open source options)
apple products are not designed to be modified and they are doing everything they can to prevent the user from doing so.
my favorite apple laptop was the titanium - i loved the easily removed keyboard so i could clean out stray crumbs and dust, and also access the innards.
also, i should say that my friend's dual g4 is still an awesome computer after 5 years, it is just that it cost 3000 new, and my $500 pc is still better.
in my family we have 4 ipod which are used a  lot and have never missed a beat in two years.
that is one of the ways to sort all of the equipment on this site.
some of should spend time reading, eventually surfing, or playing, or walking.
is it  just me that suspects apple has one of the largest return rates of all the  manufacturers of notebooks as well as mp3 players.
i also hate poor workmanship whenever consumers are the victim of such.
i swore from that day forward to only ever buy a linux-based media player.
+0 typical of apple!
but most importantly, the ultimate point of  the article was to show that modifications can't be made, and therefore can't  be recycled, so buying a warranty with apple is essentially perpetuating the  problem... am i wrong?
and that other suppliers and designers would follow apple some more sometimes : )
each has it's ups and downs on case manufacturing.
food for thought for anyone considering a microsoft hardware product.
written by hank green on 19/01/08 for a while now i've been in communication with brett mosley, the guy who started "buymytronics.com."
@ces written by hank, january 21, 2008 they can be taken apart, but it is pretty much impossible to do it without damaging the case, this is alluded to in every disassembly discussion i've seen.
you sir, are a retard, a handicapped child.
apple has been ripping people off for years.
that's the iphone, the nano is actually physically impossible  to take apart without ripping solders.
#2) while operating photoshop, illustrator, ms word, as  well as firefox- the system froze (rainbow wheel) for a good ten minutes...
i am not saying that pcs are all bad....
i know a number of people who buy apple products because the products always break within the first 6 months and they're then given a new one.
a "black friday", $299 compaq, with upgraded ram and video card, running osx, and yes, i have purchased a copy of leopard for this machine.
+0 @ces written by hank, january 21, 2008
and as apple has always been known, and commended, for its design, this doesn't seem too hard to accept.
i have ubuntu installed on one, but i haven't gotten around to hooking it up to the network yet because my other computers serve me just fine.
girlfriends ipod: 1.5 years old.
seriously... all computers suck, and vista makes my new pc run ten times as  slow.
rain, or snow, it always runs.
for example, a gen2 nano which requires soldering is $5 to have them do the swap plus the $20 for the battery.
i have replaced displays, digitizers, and batterys in several iphones.
(also, the existence of a new os does not diminish your old one in any way.)
@free ipod touch: apple offers extended warranties for all of its products.
i'd like to hear what apple are doing with all the returns they get - i hope they're not ending up in china...
... written by dieter zasche, january 22, 2008 following the hint given by ces, within a few seconds i found a video showing how to disassemble an iphone.
written by sam jackson, january 22, 2008 any apple things i or my family owns are pleasantly repairable, more or less... though my sister's old ipod mini did sit around dead for ages until she traded it up for a new nano--quite unrepairable, i'd imagine.
so goes with the new "generation" of apple products, it is the same  crap, different marketing.
this is not a mac vs pc issue.
why do numbskulls have to perpetuate the mac/pc war?
if you really want to run it on your pc, just install mac os x. i don't think someone like you would do enough research to have heard of this, so yes, it is possible.
that's why we have maintenance.
being the owner of so many goddamn computers...
i really wish they'd bring back that keyboard - way better than compressed air.
apple stopped making the airport card for it.
national geographic story on e-waste says even the places that claim they will recycle your electronics safely often export them to developing countries which use unsafe methods to extract valuable metals from them: http://ngm.nationalgeographic....text.html ouch!
in all my experience with apple products, apple has almost repeatedly shown it's self to choose "looks" over quality of material.
+0 written by maxpower, january 23, 2008 bad policy of mac earn money by clicking ads in : http://bux.to/?r=cceura
her sisters ipod: less than one year old,  battery lasts 20 minutes.
i gave titania (my old tibook) to a friend who needed it and she loves it.
+0 ... written by angelo, january 22, 2008 apple  owners, there is no need to be so protective.
i  had to unplug the batt and powercord.
it would be good to hear what apple have written by weee recycling, january 21, 2008 about their official line is on this.
this reputation has been deservedly earned over years of producing poorly designed low quality units.
+0 maybe he just needs the right tools... written by  robert thille, january 22, 2008 ifixit.com has photos of disassembly  of the latest ipods, and it didn't look like they had to destroy the case to  get it open...
seems apple is causing unnecessary grief amongst their ipod lovers.
now how many strictly pc users leave their pcs on for 5-6 weeks straight at a  time like i do with my mac...not many.
they don't show how to pop off the black case at the bottom, which is the most time consuming process, but it's good: http://www.5min.com/video/how-to-disassemble-iphone-7373 final word: i have repaired literally hundreds of music players, and i don't believe i've ever damaged a case, iphone, ipod nano, or zune.
#2) while operating photoshop, illustrator, ms word, as well as firefox- the system froze (rainbow wheel) for a good ten minutes...
i have a phone that ts ringing, and ts enough.
mac os is a great operating system, but apples hardware to match is another story.
there's probably a little bar in the top right of your browser with the word "google" in it.
i have reapired several.
we still do it, however, it just takes more time.
he also surmises that they might be trying to discourage the market in repairs and mods that fuel his and many other businesses.
you get what you paid for; an awesome ad campaign and pretty design.
the thing is apple is a company that both makes it's computers and it's os.
this story smells fishy.
genius bar was always packed (for some strange reason).
written by farhad abdolian,  january 23, 2008 ever since the good old days of apple ii, they have  changed their strategy to something that is not for us, to touch.
+0 ... written by dieter zasche, january 22, 2008 following the hint given by ces, within a few seconds i found a video showing  how to disassemble an iphone.
brett's answer: "looks...pure looks."
i also have a dell desktop bought in early 2007.
there have been many pro and con comments on this thread about the ipod and the zune, mac vs pc etc.. i am neutral in the these wars.
i just wish people would consider the long  term savings of green more!
so i thought maybe they were just trying to get people to send them back to apple for proprietary repairs.
he's recently expanded his business to cover iphones, zunes, and gaming systems, and is about to expand even further into cell phones and laptops.
a 1000 dollar home made pc from 2002 is running  strong.
you can argue that a "pc" would not have the done the same, and you are probably right.
so i  thought maybe they were just trying to get people to send them back to apple  for proprietary repairs.
i'm not a fan boy of either camp.
meanwhile, my home built pc  (2.4 ghz, 1gbram, 80gb hard drive) ($500) still kicks ass.
they are secretive about all of the little breakdowns and replaced mice and software upgrade incompatibility and expired file permissions.
i dont want to do that.
to the whomever says the iphone isn't repairable.
but it comes down to the fact that, when choosing between extending the life of their gadgets and making things look pretty, apple is landing on the side of pretty.
apple phased out lead in plastics, paints, and packaging long before rohs came into effect.
i had to unplug the batt and powercord.
it gets tiring trying to maintain  them...
(i was also using azureus to dling movies)
brett's a huge ecogeek...he basically buys broken electronics, fixes them, and then sells them on ebay.
anyway, i work at an electronics repair shop, and we repair lots of gadgets, including iphones and nanos...
... written by chaz, november 12, 2008 i fix ipods for extra money
the less you buy the less you pollute.
for example:i wouldn't by an mp3 player that you  couldn't easily replace the battery.
apple's unfixable gadgets...made to break?
+0 i have had a very different experience.. written by  michael chen, january 23, 2008 uh..
they are very controlling in a lot of ways.
now how many strictly pc users leave their pcs on for 5-6 weeks straight at a time like i do with my mac...not many.
it sits on my garage, plays music, and my iphone is its remote.
i will always own a macbook for travel, and a windows pc for gaming.
the xbox, including the 360, is a case history of how notto make a consumer product.
which is why i won't be getting the new "air."
in highschool it completely died on me while i was writing my term paper.
i think microsoft is a great, greatsoftware company that continues to excel most of the time (vista is the notable exception) with its software products--see the brilliant ribbon interface in office 2007, one of the best new software products of our time or ever.
battery won't charge.
only one other laptop made it to the genius bar during my visit.
the big picture is "how to properly dispose of or re-cycle electronic gadgets".
so my point is, customer service, customer service, apple has it aplenty.
oh and next time angelo... check your facts with others, not just your bubble  of friends!
feeling pretty smug here.
write comment name email website title comment smaller | bigger subscribe via email (registered users only)
mouse failed after a year.
but then that isn't  the same machine you started with.
it does not mean you are stupid for buying their products, just that apples ad execs are doing their job.
traded it up for a new nano--quite unrepairable, i'd imagine.
even self-built computers have a shelf life - hard disks die, fans fail, upgrades are needed.
they are just machines, and we love them when they do our bidding, hate them when they refuse, or break.
just one greedy, sneaky  company called apple.
start up in target mode, do software install from another mac.
i am not an apple basher.
making these models more difficult to repair is invariably un-green in the long run.
the toshiba was a waste of money...
i don't suggest  mentioning you've been through 5 computers in 3 years and still haven't figured  out how to modify/speed them up or that you run vista (as i'd assume most  computer literate people have been wary about the os jump or have moved on to  more open source options)
the dream is pc quality with an apple os.
it's like recycling, but way better, because the gadgets get to keep living.
money written by maxpower, january 23, 2008 bad policy of mac earn money by clicking ads in : http://bux.to/?r=cceura classic corpo greed written by toast, january 23, 2008 shameful... never had any of those problems written by karsten, january 24, 2008 so far so good.
think of how many non-functioning xboxes populate the land fills in the usa.
i think the problems of durability, usability over the long haul, repairability and upgradability have been seen industry-wide.
ditto for the original zune.
you get what you paid for; an  awesome ad campaign and pretty design.
battery  won't charge.
ridiculous comments doing down the opposition are  for kids.
so, for me, it will be harder to fix these, increasing repair costs and diminishing their resale value after they have been repaired.
the 10 pc's have really never broken although they all virtually become unusable due to microsoft and all of it's sloppy/junky programming.
if you believe apple is made up of earth loving people who want to save the planet more than they want to make a bunch of money you're nuts.
i admire the  design from afar, but i'm just unwilling to make the sacrifices necessary for  it--personally and environmentally.
a 1000 dollar  mac from 2002 is worthless.
will these discarded iphones end up in a smoldering heap in ghana or china or india, like most broken cellphones and tvs and computers?
after all these years, the pb with 1.25ghz is still going strong and have never broken down on me.
no fence, but even if they  did put an open button people wouldn't know what to do with it.
protective written by angelo, january 22, 2008 everyone i know has a broken ipod.
otoh, how many old pcs of the vintage of my still-working old macs have i seen out there?
as far as taking them apart, the first one of a model i take apart i will break, after that they are easy.
ipod batteries: all battery technologies used in portable electronics are consumable.
to the guy who says his $1000 imac is worthless after a few years, tell that to the g3 imac running tiger (yes tiger, grow a brain non believers).
oh and next time angelo... check your facts with others, not just your bubble of friends!
@jack: remember that apple "led the industry" (their words) in environmental matters.
brett's a huge ecogeek...he basically  buys broken electronics, fixes them, and then sells them on ebay.
meanwhile, my home built pc (2.4 ghz, 1gbram, 80gb hard drive) ($500) still kicks ass.
a 1000 dollar home made pc from 2002 is running strong.
no new case required.
none of my gatewas/dell/compaq/hp/sony (and i have had them all) laptops have cracked.
irreparable written by marilyn terrell, january 22, 2008 bummer!
there is no mac vs. pc  war because there is no company called "pc".
nostalgia and hope written by naturegeek, january 30, 2008 i agree with leonard, as i am also "bi-platform" and i think the whole brand loyalty to the point of cultish identification with your products is pretty stupid (and kind of creepy, when you think about it!)
apple written by immrlizard, january 22, 2008 http://www.anythingbutipod.com/ there is a good site for those not wanting to perpetuate apple's stranglehold on media players.
i own many products of each type.
i'm laughing my rear off!
btw... if you want an appointment at the apple "genius bar" you need to actually make one.
that's what makes me dislike apple.
the  iphone and ipod are not soldered together and can be disassembled without  damaging the devices.
" view all comments share - email it - print it - digg it - reddit it - del.icio.us - stumble it apple's unfixable gadgets...made to break?
i'd like to hear what  apple are doing with all the returns they get - i hope they're not ending up in  china...
anyway, repairing some broken electronic telecomunication devices, can increase the level of radiations, so t will be more dangerous than ever.
will these discarded iphones end up in a smoldering heap in  ghana or china or india, like most broken cellphones and tvs and computers?
i admire the design from afar, but i'm just unwilling to make the sacrifices necessary for it--personally and environmentally.
i've also witnessed the same process at an apple store, so i can assure you they can open up both of these products without damaging the back plate.
and a homemade model is meant to be upgraded, so it "being the same one you started with" bears no matter :p apple product fixability written by leonard, january 26, 2008 i own 1 ipod nano, 1 ipod touch , 5 macs (including some old vintage collector laptop models that still work perfectly to this day) and an iphone.
and to everyone's point: we'll replace your iphone battery for $30.
every company does it.
and another thing... apple products are not  meant to be taken apart.
the other guy with the home made pc was stating his opinion (which you both support and snub in your comment).
i bought the  mac in taiwan.
http://www.storyofstuff.com/ ... written by ev, january 22, 2008
if you aren't comfortable doing it yourself then google 'ipod battery replacement', look at the paid spots at the top of the page and fix it.
and as apple has always been  known, and commended, for its design, this doesn't seem too hard to accept.
i was smart/knowledgable enough to do it myself : )
my friends ipod: wont let him transfer  certain music from his computer.
pc repairs 7 so  far (fingers crossed).
maybe someday... :- :) ... written by free ipod touch, february 26, 2008 so first they make it likely to die on you in the first year or so and now they make it so that if it does die on you, you can't get a simple repair?
just very happy with my apple products.
i would have had a mail in repair, that lasted weeks.
written by sam jackson, january 22, 2008 any apple things i or my family owns are pleasantly repairable, more or  less... though my sister's old ipod mini did sit around dead for ages until she
took me less than an  hour to assemble.
i agree that the people there are idiots, but most people bringing their laptops are idiots!
i have yet to take my 5 year old mac to the stupid bar.
in the nanos and shuffles, parts are actually soldered together, eliminating the possiblility of simple repair.
responses mainly in defense of apple, in written by ian, october 28, 2008 @jeff: your pcs may be doing well, but that doesn't mean that pcs in general are perfect.
that is how  they supplement income from good products.
and i have found that the only ones that are difficult to fix are the nanos, do to the size and almost everything being soldered to the board itself.
in all cases with the windows pc laptops... they all crash within the first 3  days of use... mind you i bought them brand new.
it is rotting in the garage as we speak.
i have had my macbook replaced several times for the cracked plastic case, thats why i now have the all aluminum macbook, and all it cost me was the gas to get to the apple store.
it's the biggest challenge we've ever faced....but we're taking it on.
i don't own a desktop computer, so my laptop has to substitute for one.
obviously they want ipods to be disposable things that go bad and need to be replaced, there's no money in something that lasts forever and can be repaired by anyone, that doesn't generate any revenue for them.