weekly communication with instructor by e-mail on the progress and problems encountered with assignment 4 overall visual appeal of slides.
slides are not too cluttered or too much empty space.
several slides on a mac.
a webquest for 12th grade the internet and web page design designed by:
- the first slide will be a title slide.
the computer you eventually select, a pc or macintosh, will best fit your needs and be acceptable to your parents.
- conduct an internet search for an on-line computer magazine and read a review for a pc and for a macintosh.
description of point value is shown in the table: point description
- create a collection of multimedia objects.
a monthly magazine for the macintosh computer enthusiast.
as you conduct your investigation, pay particular attention to; memory, speed, expandability, storage, peripherals, software and price.
obtain a specifications sheet for a pc and mac.
evaluation your work will be evaluated in each of the areas listed in the grading rubric below.
at least two images, one audio clip or narration, one clip art and three animated gifs.
create a collection of multimedia objects.
is it convincing and supported by factual information?
prepare to give your presentation to the class.
each of the 10 components will be worth 4 points for a  total of 40 points.
an on-line computer dictionary to help explain all those computer terms.
- several slides on a mac.
make note of the similarities and differences between  the pc and macintosh.
purchase computer hardware and softare over the internet.
make note of the company, website, platform, features and price.
test all links and verify that all objects appear on the slides.
does it address all the issues?
include the title, your name and a picture.
are you pleased with your selection and will it fit your needs.
a magazine devoted to news, trends and opinions in the world of macintosh.
are you prepared to give your report when called upon and is the file uploaded to the server?
- the last slide should be a credits page listing all the sources cited.
find several images, animated gifs, audio clip or narration and clip art.
make note of  the company, website, platform, features and price.
in the future, you will need to think about upgrades in hardware and software and the life-time of your computer.
can you add additional information and comments.
clear explanation of factual information 4 powerpoint slides.
missing grading rubric component value score references.
- a slide with your conclusions.
the quality, depth and accuracy of information presented.
based on a template from the webquest page
evaluation your work will be evaluated in each of the areas listed in the grading  rubric below.
determine which computer is best for you and where you will purchase you new computer.
- conduct an on-line search to find computer vendors.
you will be familiar with all the features of a computer and will be able to discuss computers with a salesperson and your parents.
- prepare to give your presentation to the class.
be able to comment on each slide.
look at the features and price for each computer.
- a slide concerning the purchase, whether on the internet or in a store.
last updated on june 30, 2004.
the computer is to be used primarily for your school work and for college next year.
at this point, you should feel more confident about choosing the right computer for you.
the task your task is to investigate a pc and mac, and examine the features of each microcomputer.
list the advantages and disadvantages.
- hotbot - askjeeves - altavista - yahoo - google the process - visit a store that sells computers and examine both platforms.
list the features, software included,  strengths, weaknesses and price.
4 research information.
on-line directory to products and dealers.
list the features, software included, strengths, weaknesses and price.
conduct an on-line search to find computer vendors.
which platform, where you would  purchase the computer and what features should be stated.
conclusion  should be convincing and supported by your research.
visit the list of web sites from the internet resource list to research  each computer, make notes concerning the reviews, features and price.
resources - stores that sell pc and macintosh computers, such as; best buy, staples and circuit city.
do all the images appear and the audio can be heard?
conclusion should be convincing and supported by your research.
- on-line computer vendors.
textboxes and bulleted lists.
do all the links work?
description of point value is shown in the table:
4 presentation file uploaded to web server.
- visit additional web sites by conducting searches using search engines and directories.
visit additional web sites by conducting searches using search engines  and directories.
hardware and software review, commentary and links to on-line purchasing.
is it coherent and not read?
google the process visit a store that sells computers and examine both platforms.
- computer advertisements in newspapers and computer magazines.
which platform, where you would purchase the computer and what features should be stated.
have you planned and rehersed your presentation?
a slide concerning the purchase, whether on the internet or in a  store.
are you pleased with  your selection and will it fit your needs.
obtain a specifications sheet for a pc and mac.  this will list all the  features of the computer and the price.
save your presentation as a web document and upload it to the web  server.
the first slide will be a title slide.
when you complete your investigation you will report your findings and preference to the class using a powerpoint presentation which will be uploaded to the web server.
- on-line computer magazine.
you will need to do your homework and convince your parents that this is the best computer that will fit your educational needs.
this will list all the features of the computer and the price.
- visit the list of web sites from the internet resource list to research each computer, make notes concerning the reviews, features and price.
you will know if the purchase will be on the internet or in a retail store and if you want a pc or mac.
- save your presentation as a web document and upload it to the web server.
design, fonts, colors, grammar and spelling.
a slide with your conclusions.
includes articles and reviews on personal computers.
each of the 10 components will be worth 4 points for a total of 40 points.
the last slide should be a credits page listing all the sources cited.
mr. richard brown rbrown@curley.loyola.edu introduction | task | resources | process | evaluation | conclusion introduction you are a senior in high school and your parents gave you the go ahead to purchase a home computer.
make note of the similarities and differences between the pc and macintosh.
good luck in your purchase.
be able to comment  on each slide.
conduct an internet search for an on-line computer magazine and read a  review for a pc and for a macintosh.
examine computer advertisements in the newspaper or in computer  magazines.
point description 4 exemplary 3 accomplished 2 developed 1 beginning 0
several slides on a pc.
at least eight slides prepared with transitions and effects.
4 constructive use of class time.
the number and quality of sources as listed on the source cited slide.
include the title, your name  and a picture.
4 your total score possible points 40 your percent grade conclusion you examined a pc and mac and you are now prepared to go out and make an educated decision in buying a microcomputer for your personal use and for college.
find several images,  animated gifs, audio clip or narration and clip art.
your presentation should last approximately four minutes.
once you gather all the information you need, prepare slides for a  powerpoint presentation.
once you gather all the information you need, prepare slides for a powerpoint presentation.
you will compare and contrast comparable computers on each platform by gathering information from a variety of sources.
your initial preference may not have been your final selection or perhaps your research confirmed what you always wanted.
- examine computer advertisements in the newspaper or in computer magazines.
- several slides on a pc.
if you do not have a favorite search engine, the following are good ones to use to help you gather additional information.