prepare for powder: snowpants up to 50% off top brands for men, women and kids.
2-in-1 unit makes cleaning floors super quick and easy.
popular windows programs like microsoft word and excel are also available in a mac compatible format, however these obviously come at an additional cost.
from a strictly unbiased perspective, these are the need to know facts on macs and pcs: - why are macs more expensive than pcs?
that being said, pc technical support is cheap and easy to come by, while support for a mac can be a little more challenging to find.
graphics people will request – and need - a mac for very specific  reasons.
given that pcs make up the majority of all computers in the  world, it makes sense that hackers are more inclined to create viruses for the  operating system on which they can cause the most damage.
when considering which is best for your household needs, take into account what kind of software you will need to satisfy your day-to-day activities, the upgrade fees associated with software and hardware for pcs, and your over-all budget for the machine itself.
it is most likely that macs will continue to be the go-to in the publishing sector and because of their price and readily available support, pcs are probably going to dominate the business world for some time to come.
if the majority of your  employees perform day-to-day business tasks, they will have no need for an  expensive mac to do their jobs properly.
- price – as mentioned above, up front and long term costs differ for both platforms.
frequently asked questions about macs and pcs
it shouldn't take long to learn though,  because the mac usability is actually one of their key selling points.
in this article, we will take a look at the following: what's the difference?
mac's operating system on the whole, is considered to be more stable though and generally requires less maintenance than a pc.
- more - autos - careers - classifieds - deaths - real estate diversions - acts of kindness - sudoku - crosswords - bridge results - contests - lotteries - comics - tv listings - horoscopes public editor - public editor columns - about the public editor - recent corrections - report an error stay up to date - rss feeds - twitter updates - news alerts - newsletters - mobile devices other sites: - toronto.com - parentcentral.ca - yourhome.ca - healthzone.ca - wheels.ca collapse site map - flyerland.ca - goldbook.ca - starauctions.ca - insurancehotline.com - wonderlist.ca kids clothing computers electronics beauty indoor living jewellery entertainment sports toys more... buy smart!
your basic machines at the lowest end of the pricing scale are only capable of email, surfing the internet, and creating basic documents.
historically, pc has been the go-to choice for the majority of canadian households.
browser-based tools like quickbooks online and web-based email, often  eliminate the mac vs pc debate all together because they generally only require  a basic computer to access and operate and a low end pc will do the trick.
apple creates both the hardware and software applications for its  products.
- browser-based tools like quickbooks online and web-based email, often eliminate the mac vs pc debate all together because they generally only require a basic computer to access and operate and a low end pc will do the trick.
both use new technology like the intel core duo processor, which means  that all pc apps are now able to run on a mac.
the costs in  upgrading the operating system, increasing memory, or upgrading the software  that most pc owners use on a day-to-day basis, is where the long-term costs  come in.
when considering which is best for your household needs, take  into account what kind of software you will need to satisfy your day-to-day  activities, the upgrade fees associated with software and hardware for pcs, and  your over-all budget for the machine itself.
apple targets a  higher market to begin with - above creating their own software and hardware,  they use more expensive components and parts, which results in a higher up  front cost.
the costs in upgrading the operating system, increasing memory, or upgrading the software that most pc owners use on a day-to-day basis, is where the long-term costs come in.
check out the redi-set-go!
what's with pcs and viruses, and why do they seem so unstable?
it is most likely that macs will continue to be  the go-to in the publishing sector and because of their price and readily  available support, pcs are probably going to dominate the business world for  some time to come.
microsoft's windows is the operating system associated with the majority  of pcs in the world.
consult comprehensive buying  guides & hot shopping trends here.
historically, pc has been the go-to choice for the majority of canadian  households.
macs have traditionally held the market in publishing and design, while pcs are the standard in business.
popular  windows programs like microsoft word and excel are also available in a mac  compatible format, however these obviously come at an additional cost.
technical support may be harder to come by for a mac-based shop but  if you have a full-time technical expert on staff, this should not make much of  a difference to your bottom line.
close wheels.ca healthzone.ca yourhome.ca parentcentral.ca toronto.com login/register weather - thestar.com - web - find a business - news - opinion - business - sports - entertainment - living - travel - multimedia
- support – because pcs enjoy market share majority, support tends to be easier to source and could be cheaper too.
- are macs best for multimedia, and pcs for business?
software upgrades will however be an  expensive line item on the books so this may impact your decision to settle on  a pc.
apple targets a higher market to begin with - above creating their own software and hardware, they use more expensive components and parts, which results in a higher up front cost.
pcs open the door for users on a tight budget because competitive prices are within reach of most consumers.
this means that pc manufacturers each have their own deal  with windows for software, and are able to be ultra-competitive in the features  and pricing of their hardware.
it should be noted however that both platforms are  able to perform similar – if not the same functions, with the help of  software specific to that use.
choosing the right platform for your office environment what's the difference?
- what's with pcs and viruses, and why do they seem so unstable?
compaq presario cq5320f... $289.96 (28% off) at the source hp pavilion slimline s5560f... $899.99 at amazon.ca hp pavilion p6630f - core... $749.99 at amazon.ca shopping advice read more shopping advice dust & mop floors at the same time!
in this article, we will take a look at the following: - what's the difference?
faq's both mac and pc supporters usually take a hard-lined stance on their  favoured platform's strengths, and the competitor's perceived weaknesses.
- slippers that go the extra mile - ottlite: enjoy life in 3d printers (view all) epson artisan 725... from $192.89 2 stores epson stylus nx130... $69.99 at epson servers (view all)
choosing the right platform for your office environment again, there is no right or wrong here, although in a business environment  you are likely to keep a close eye on the costs of acquisition and maintenance  of all business assets, and this alone is a determining factor for so many  companies.
choosing the right platform for your home/schooling requirements with so many home computer options on the market, do you find yourself scratching your head as to what is best suited to yours and your family's needs?
mac's operating  system on the whole, is considered to be more stable though and generally  requires less maintenance than a pc.
these quick tips will set the tone on how you should choose the platform best suited to your business needs: - keep your bottom line top of mind at all times.
given that pcs make up the majority of all computers in the world, it makes sense that hackers are more inclined to create viruses for the operating system on which they can cause the most damage.
it should be noted however that both platforms are able to perform similar – if not the same functions, with the help of software specific to that use.
depending on what you intend to use your pc for, or how you upgrade it  will significantly affect the total cost of your computer.
peripherals like printers and scanners may also have only been pc  friendly, and although it is best to double-check that your peripherals are  compatible with whatever your end choice may be, the majority of computer  accessories will work with both the mac and pc.
microsoft's windows is the operating system associated with the majority of pcs in the world.
- respect the requirement of special machines and software to fit certain roles.
choosing the right platform for your home/schooling requirements choosing the right platform for your office environment what's the difference?
can macs run windows programs?
technical support and upgrades will represent an on going cost to your  business.
faq's both mac and pc supporters usually take a hard-lined stance on their favoured platform's strengths, and the competitor's perceived weaknesses.
apple creates both the hardware and software applications for its products.
mac computer systems (view all) apple ipad 2 64gb wifi + 3g... $466.83 at direct electronics store apple ipad 64gb with wi-fi... $749.00 at amazon.ca apple ipad 32gb wifi + 3g... $274.18 at direct electronics store pc computer systems (view all)
learn... indoor electric grill that lets you cook great meals fast!
when you buy a mac however, it is preloaded with the apple line of  software and it literally ready to use right out of the box, with no additional  set up or software uploads required.
- technical support and upgrades will represent an on going cost to your business.
there will never be a clear winner in the age-old debate of whether a mac beats thepc, or the pc trumps the mac, but it is infinitely clear that each enjoys a staunch following of devoted fans.
macs have traditionally held the market in publishing and design, while pcs  are the standard in business.
the confusion between which is the better of the two, really comes to  light if you are a unbiased consumer looking for the machine that best suits  your needs, or a business owner fielding requests from individual employees,  arguing the necessity for their preferred platform.
the mac's greatest drawbacks have revolved around compatibility, usability, support, and price: share this buying guide | - compatibility – this really is no longer an issue because macs are able to run the windows-based programs, which they were once incapable of doing.
peripherals like printers and scanners may also have only been pc friendly, and although it is best to double-check that your peripherals are compatible with whatever your end choice may be, the majority of computer accessories will work with both the mac and pc.
are macs best for multimedia, and pcs for business?
consult comprehensive buying guides & hot shopping trends here.
the confusion between which is the better of the two, really comes to light if you are a unbiased consumer looking for the machine that best suits your needs, or a business owner fielding requests from individual employees, arguing the necessity for their preferred platform.
apple, however, now offers technical support and usability classes through their brick and mortar stores for mac owners.
from  a strictly unbiased perspective, these are the need to know facts on macs and  pcs: why are macs more expensive than pcs?
pcs open the door for users on a  tight budget because competitive prices are within reach of most consumers.
price – as mentioned above, up front and long term costs differ for  both platforms.
software upgrades will however be an expensive line item on the books so this may impact your decision to settle on a pc.
- laptop hot deals - limited time coupon offers - fix it wood: refurbish favourite furniture!
yes – you are  even able to run windows simultaneously with the apple os x platform.
that being said, pc technical support is  cheap and easy to come by, while support for a mac can be a little more  challenging to find.
- can macs run windows programs?
depending on what you intend to use your pc for, or how you upgrade it will significantly affect the total cost of your computer.
apple, however, now offers  technical support and usability classes through their brick and mortar stores  for mac owners.
mac or pc which comes out tops for business and home use
your basic machines at the lowest end of the pricing scale are only capable of  email, surfing the internet, and creating basic documents.
when you buy a mac however, it is preloaded with the apple line of software and it literally ready to use right out of the box, with no additional set up or software uploads required.
choosing the right platform for your office environment again, there is no right or wrong here, although in a business environment you are likely to keep a close eye on the costs of acquisition and maintenance of all business assets, and this alone is a determining factor for so many companies.
this is a two-part answer because although the up front cost of a mac may be higher, the long-term cost can be substantially lower than a pc.
choosing the right platform for your home/schooling requirements -
- usability – because pcs generally rule the workplace, some may find the mac interface tough to get used to.
yes – you are even able to run windows simultaneously with the apple os x platform.
this means that pc manufacturers each have their own deal with windows for software, and are able to be ultra-competitive in the features and pricing of their hardware.
this is a  two-part answer because although the up front cost of a mac may be higher, the  long-term cost can be substantially lower than a pc.
if the majority of your employees perform day-to-day business tasks, they will have no need for an expensive mac to do their jobs properly.
support – because pcs enjoy market share majority, support tends to  be easier to source and could be cheaper too.
usability – because pcs generally rule the workplace, some may find  the mac interface tough to get used to.
this means that apple determines specs, costs, and retailers allowed to carry them, and all their software runs seamlessly on their os x operating system.
these quick tips will set the tone on how you should choose the platform  best suited to your business needs: keep your bottom line top of mind at all times.
there will never be a clear winner in the age-old debate of whether a mac  beats thepc, or the pc trumps the mac, but it is infinitely clear that each  enjoys a staunch following of devoted fans.
western digital western... from $189.99 5 stores synology disk station... from $550.55 2 stores webcams (view all) logitech c920 webcam $101.99 at newegg.ca microsoft corporation... from $23.99 (-4% off) 5 stores - thestar.com - corrections - contact webmaster - faq - site map - toronto star - about - subscribe - subscribe self service - contact us - news releases - star internships - careers at thestar.com - advertise with us - media kit - online advertising - print advertising - special sections - initiatives - santa clause fund - fresh air fund - classroom connection - community giving parentcentral.ca wheels.ca yourhome.ca toronto.com pages of the past stock photos new in homes more - stay up to date - rss feeds - twitter updates - news alerts - newsletters - mobile devices © copyright toronto star 1996-2012terms & conditions privacy policy
- frequently asked questions about macs and pcs -
graphics people will request – and need - a mac for very specific reasons.
choosing the right platform for your home/schooling requirements with so many home computer options on the market, do you find yourself  scratching your head as to what is best suited to yours and your family's needs?
this means that apple determines specs, costs, and retailers allowed  to carry them, and all their software runs seamlessly on their os x operating  system.
technical support may be harder to come by for a mac-based shop but if you have a full-time technical expert on staff, this should not make much of a difference to your bottom line.
introducing the essential fall accessories from hats and scarves to the rose gold phenomenon, check out...
respect the requirement of special machines and software to fit certain  roles.
both use new technology like the intel core duo processor, which means that all pc apps are now able to run on a mac.
it shouldn't take long to learn though, because the mac usability is actually one of their key selling points.
the mac's greatest drawbacks have revolved around compatibility,  usability, support, and price: compatibility – this really is no longer an issue because macs are  able to run the windows-based programs, which they were once incapable of  doing.
mac computer systems apple ipad 2 64gb wifi + 3g... $466.83  at  direct electronics store apple ipad 64gb with wi-fi... $749.00  at  amazon.ca apple ipad 32gb wifi + 3g... $274.18  at  direct electronics  store pc computer systems