older versions don’t support quicktime.
it’s better to do it yourself  so you can control the conversion.
- links to external graphics files will break.
embed all graphics, sounds and  movies.
more information on this here http://www.pptfaq.com/faq00155.htm.
powerpoint 2007/2008 can open files from earlier versions and save back to the earlier formats (but it’s wise to test this before assuming it’ll work with any particular presentation).
can be viewed properly on the mac.
subscribe - home - about - contact us - index - blog - support - office - document connection - entourage - excel - outlook - powerpoint - word get started - office - administration - deployment - apple remote desktop - autoconfigdb.xml - casper - command line - distribution.dist - mcx - compare editions - faqs - font management - glossary - install - installed files list for office 2011 - remove office - licensing - eula for office for mac 2011 - microsoft home use program - volume licensing - links - troubleshoot - document connection - entourage - excel - outlook - backup options - database - differences between outlook for mac and entourage - differences between outlook for mac and outlook for windows - exchange - autodiscover - exchange server remote connectivity analyzer - logging - resource scheduling - setup script - faqs - exchange faqs - export options - hot topics - import options - import apple mail, ical, or address book items - send & receive - sync faqs - troubleshoot - outlook cannot open the file because it is not associated with the default identity - using applescripts - using outlook with word, excel & powerpoint - powerpoint - faqs - pc to mac and back - powerpoint how-tos - word pc to mac and back powerpoint versions – a history
mac versions can open files that contain embedded fonts but cannot use the fonts.
x-platform in either direction, pc to mac or mac to pc - embedded objects (word tables, excel charts/sheets, graphs, etc.) may not translate well.
mac users should install fonts with font book application on their mac before running your presentation.
before we start, consider that you’ll be dealing with different  versions of powerpoint as well as different platforms.
powerpoint 2007/2008 can open files from earlier versions and  save back to the earlier formats (but it’s wise to test this before  assuming it’ll work with any particular presentation).
mac users should install fonts with font book application on their mac  before running your presentation.
whereas powerpoint for mac uses quicktime to handle audio and video, powerpoint 2010 is the only version that supports quicktime.
it’s better to do it yourself
wherever possible, use the tools built into powerpoint (ie, powerpoint’s table editor in ppt2000 and up on pc, ppt-x and up on mac) rather than objects created in external programs.
uppercase/lowercase doesn’t matter, but don’t use punctuation characters or spaces in your filenames.
- powerpoint 2011 (mac) and powerpoint 2010 (windows) are the closest equivalents ever.
for all practical purposes, you can consider powerpoint 97 and 2000 (windows) and powerpoint 98 (mac) pretty much the same.
2002/2003 also have motion path animation, supported by the powerpoint 2003 viewer.
powerpoint viewers - microsoft skydrive has a cross-platform light version of powerpoint that doubles as the player for recent powerpoint versions for both macs and pcs.
some punctuation marks are pc-safe but may cause problems in email or web applications if files are converted.
powerpoint 2002 (windows) and powerpoint 2001 (mac) both added multiple  masters and a lot of other new features and bring the mac and pc versions into  rough equivalence again.
powerpoint 2011 for mac can open password-protected files (if you  know the password, that is!).
powerpoint x (mac) is roughly equivalent to powerpoint 2002 (windows)  again.
file compatibility exceptions: windows versions since 2002 can apply password protection to files.
if you create in powerpoint 2011 on mac, then move to pc - save your files in powerpoint xml file format.
wherever possible, use the tools built into powerpoint  (ie, powerpoint’s table editor in ppt2000 and up on pc, ppt-x and up on  mac) rather than objects created in external programs.
they can all open one another’s files.
it’s the first powerpoint version that’s fully  compatible with os x. powerpoint 2004 (mac) adds a few new features and better support for the  multiple masters and animations on the equivalent windows versions (ppt 2002  and 2003).
- powerpoint 2008 (mac) and powerpoint 2007 (windows) are again approximate equivalents.
- use windows media (.wmv) or quicktime for audio and movies.
powerpoint 2008 (mac) and powerpoint 2007 (windows) are again approximate  equivalents.
this is mainly  about pc/mac issues, so we won’t take powerpoint version differences into  account here other than this general set of rules: we’ll ignore versions of powerpoint prior to 98 (mac) and 97  (windows).
use only rgb color for your powerpoint graphics.
2002/2003 also have motion path animation,  supported by the powerpoint 2003 viewer.
use fonts in font collections > windows office compatible when choose  fonts.
if you create on pc then move to mac powerpoint 2011 - save your files in powerpoint’s xml file format.
powerpoint 2004 and later versions of powerpoint for mac includes  compatibility report, a feature that is designed to alleviate many of the  common headaches in optimizing presentations for other versions and other  platforms.
- quicktime content is supported only in powerpoint 2010 for windows.
any valid file name you save on windows is ok when bringing it to a mac.
old powerpoint  windows versions use built-in windows functions (mci) to do so, which greatly  limits the amount of file types that can be viewed on the pc side (only a few,  like mpeg and avi can be handled in old pc powerpoint).
windows media  requires the free flip4mac quicktime codec on the mac.
powerpoint 97 (windows) is very much like powerpoint 98 (mac).
- links to external files will break.
all windows versions can embed fonts.
this office-wide feature can be accessed in the toolbox and in save as dialogs.
so you can control the conversion.
old versions of  powerpoint on the mac and pc have compatibility problems.
this office-wide feature can be accessed in the toolbox and in  save as dialogs.
embed all graphics, sounds and movies.
file compatibility exceptions: - windows versions since 2002 can apply password protection to files.
- any valid file name you save on windows is ok when bringing it to a mac.
both use the new office xml file formats.
- don’t squeeze your text too tightly into placeholders.
- powerpoint 2000 (windows) has no equivalent on mac, but it only added a few new features to powerpoint 97.
quicktime content is supported only in powerpoint 2010 for windows.
- use fonts in font collections > windows office compatible when choose fonts.
- use only rgb color for your powerpoint graphics.
older  versions don’t support quicktime.
dashes (-) and underscores (_) are safe, though.
uppercase/lowercase  doesn’t matter, but don’t use punctuation characters or spaces in  your filenames.
links to external graphics files will break.
many fonts are not free, so don’t steal.
use windows media (.wmv) or quicktime for audio and movies.
links to external files will break.
powerpoint 2000 (windows) has no equivalent on mac, but it only added a  few new features to powerpoint 97.
- powerpoint x (mac) is roughly equivalent to powerpoint 2002 (windows) again.
file formats powerpoint 97 through 2003 (windows) and powerpoint 98 through 2004 (mac) share the same file format.
if you create on pc then move to mac powerpoint 2011 save your files in powerpoint’s xml file format.
there are more mac to pc tips here on creating a presentation on microsoft.com
file formats powerpoint 97 through  2003 (windows) and powerpoint 98 through 2004 (mac) share the same file format.
x-platform in either direction, pc to mac or mac to pc embedded objects (word tables, excel charts/sheets, graphs, etc.) may not  translate well.
powerpoint 2011 for mac can open password-protected files (if you know the password, that is!).
font substitution and slight differences in text rendering on mac vs pc can cause your text to get truncated or spill out of too-tight text boxes.
for all practical purposes, you can  consider powerpoint 97 and 2000 (windows) and powerpoint 98 (mac) pretty much  the same.
powerpoint will convert  cmyk or pantone colors to rgb anyway.
old versions of powerpoint on the mac and pc have compatibility problems.
more information on  this here http://www.pptfaq.com/faq00155.htm.
contributed by jim gordon, mac mvp share this: translate this page - twitter - facebook - del.icio.us - digg - stumbleupon - google bookmarks - pdf - print copyright © 2010-2012 officeformachelp.com - all rights reserved •log in
mac powerpoint versions can’t create motion path animations but beginning with powerpoint 2004 for mac, presentations with motion path animations created on windows
mac versions can open files  that contain embedded fonts but cannot use the fonts.
if you create in powerpoint 2011 on mac, then move to pc save your files in powerpoint xml file format.
whereas powerpoint for mac uses quicktime to handle audio and video,  powerpoint 2010 is the only version that supports quicktime.
- powerpoint 2002 (windows) and powerpoint 2001 (mac) both added multiple masters and a lot of other new features and bring the mac and pc versions into rough equivalence again.
in case that’s not a convincing argument, try this: powerpoint may substitute a red x for cmyk graphics.
powerpoint 2004 and later versions of powerpoint for mac includes compatibility report, a feature that is designed to alleviate many of the common headaches in optimizing presentations for other versions and other platforms.
old powerpoint windows versions use built-in windows functions (mci) to do so, which greatly limits the amount of file types that can be viewed on the pc side (only a few, like mpeg and avi can be handled in old pc powerpoint).
both use identical xml file formats, support vba, support add-ins, and embed movies and sounds by default.
powerpoint 2007 (windows) and 2008 (mac) introduced a new file format based on xml.
powerpoint will convert cmyk or pantone colors to rgb anyway.
- don’t embed fonts.
both use identical xml file formats, support vba, support  add-ins, and embed movies and sounds by default.
this is mainly about pc/mac issues, so we won’t take powerpoint version differences into account here other than this general set of rules: we’ll ignore versions of powerpoint prior to 98 (mac) and 97 (windows).
powerpoint pc to mac and back powerpoint how-tos pc to mac and back powerpoint versions – a history
powerpoint 2011 (mac) and powerpoint 2010 (windows) are the closest  equivalents ever.
before we start, consider that you’ll be dealing with different versions of powerpoint as well as different platforms.
windows media requires the free flip4mac quicktime codec on the mac.
instead, provide copies of fonts to your mac  users.
powerpoint viewers microsoft skydrive has a cross-platform light version of powerpoint that  doubles as the player for recent powerpoint versions for both macs and pcs.
some punctuation marks are pc-safe but may cause problems  in email or web applications if files are converted.
contributed by jim gordon, mac mvp share this:
mac powerpoint versions  can’t create motion path animations but beginning with powerpoint 2004  for mac, presentations with motion path animations created on windows can be  viewed properly on the mac.
powerpoint 2007 (windows) and 2008 (mac) introduced a new file format based  on xml.
outlook cannot open the file because it is not associated with the default  identity using applescripts using outlook with word, excel & powerpoint
- all windows versions can embed fonts.
there are more mac to pc tips here on creating a presentation on  microsoft.com
font  substitution and slight differences in text rendering on mac vs pc can cause  your text to get truncated or spill out of too-tight text boxes.
in case that’s not a convincing  argument, try this:  powerpoint may substitute a red x for cmyk graphics.
don’t squeeze your text too tightly into placeholders.
it’s the first powerpoint version that’s fully compatible with os x. - powerpoint 2004 (mac) adds a few new features and better support for the multiple masters and animations on the equivalent windows versions (ppt 2002 and 2003).
dashes (-) and underscores  (_) are safe, though.
- powerpoint 97 (windows) is very much like powerpoint 98 (mac).
instead, provide copies of fonts to your mac users.