" which one is it you duplicitous fool?
all goes well when you want to buy a base system, but as soon as you want to add options, be prepared to be murdered.
the funny part is that most of the utilities you mentioned when touting osx are actually present in vista (most obviously, the accelerated desktop with seamless animations).
but c'mon, let's hear something actually convincing.
it came with a dual core pentium, 120gb hd, and 1gb ram.
derrr.jeb1517 08/04/2008 6:30 pm i've never used a mac (os x i should say) long enough to know anything about it
but if you’re interested in  alternatives read on.
i get that and many other people do as well.
the 200gb drive in the dell is also most likely a 7200rpm vs the 5400rpm in the macbook pro. 802.11n
the cheapest macbook is 1000$+.
heck, even torvalds has been critical of the file system.
if you’re  happy with what you’ve got, great!
but for the sake of these first few pages, let’s leave  mac os x out of the picture for now.
just to humour you though.
shared ram intel gma  x3100
my system absolutely crushes that $2000 macbook pro in every category... and still cost $450 less.
i am an experienced user, though, and like things to be my way; easily accessible; not screwed up.
and  to generalize it this way shows the lack of willing to understand the core of  the mac: it’s operating system.
different machines designed for different purposes.
here’s the short answer: nothing really, just some very elegant aluminum chassis designs.
if you're gonna go comparing, compare latest gen vs. latest gen.
i don't think that comparing the macbook pro and the xps m1730 is a good comparison; the xps is a desktop-replacement gaming machine, and is therefore bigger and heavier than the mac.
the never ending pc and mac war note: this isn’t a guide to evangelize and convert people from  windows to mac os x.
this does result in better performance with larger files, and the media-junkies are apple's historical bread and butter (by the way, write about wysiwyg, color management, etc. for apple, which is much better, actually).
due to competition the price is always lower.
apple really stabs you in the face when you’re upgrading your mac.
jeremy clarkson will burn this author alive...what a silly comment about hyundai lolanonymous 08/04/2008 6:29 pm not even close.
for a laptop that dell  indicates is a gaming machine, shared memory is a disappointment, as graphics  is an important area for 3d gaming.
not because it doesn't have market share.
apple really stabs you in  the face when you’re upgrading your mac.
and there’s no doubt that you can get an equally equipped pc, or build one yourself, for less money.
these are all personal computers.
the cheapest laptop i can find with vista is 600 or less at costco/sams club.
duo processor p8600 (2.4 ghz) * – 15.4" diagonal wxga high-definition hp brightview widescreen display (1280 x 800) * – free upgrade to 2gb ddr2 system memory (2 dimm) from 1gb ddr2 system memory (2 dimm) * – 512mb nvidia geforce 9600m gt * – free upgrade to 250gb 5400rpm sata hard drive with hp protectsmart hard drive protection * – hp imprint finish (mesh) + microphone + webcam * – hp color matching keyboard * – intel(r) wifi link 5100agn and bluetooth(tm) * – supermulti 8x dvd+/-r/rw with double layer support * – 6 cell lithium ion battery you may think i just down right bashed your last article.
wifi is a $20 upgrade on the dell, had to not include that to make the mac look better.
i work on these every day and if i ever bought one, it'd be for the looks- the os is nothing special imo.
all goes well when you want to  buy a base system, but as soon as you want to add options, be prepared to be  murdered.
anyone who knows even a small amount about graphics cards should know that an 8700m gt does not use shared graphics memory.
i also have legitimate hand’s on experience of [with] macs.
i own a small computer retail chain and we actually have 2 back to school packages (1 apple, 1 windows) for the identical price and have yet to sell 1 of the apple packages.
bottom line: macs aren’t "way more" expensive than pcs.
but when you compare apple against a mid range system, which the average buyer will be purchasing, the mac falls short every time.
i realize that when you're going the apple route you don't have many options, but those of us on the pc side have tons of options... and even the most basic among us would be able to purchase higher performing, lower cost pcs than the ones you selected to go up against the apples.
he just tried to make macbook look better and compared this macbook to a totally different laptop that is priced equally with the macbook.
tom's hardware > all reviews >  special > buyers guides > the apple mac cost misconception the apple mac cost misconception 11:20 am - august 4, 2008 by tuan  nguyen table of contents 1.
apple’s macbook pro has several small advantages over the xps, mainly with the magsafe connector and it’s nearly take-for-granted use.
there's 300 right there.
but for the sake of these first few pages, let’s leave mac os x out of the picture for now.
we build a pc to match a baseline mac pro 3.
what program are you running that you need 8 processing cores?
are you actually acknowledging that macs are severely overpriced vs. pc's?
in fact, i mentioned this in my previous article, although some people seemed  to have completely missed the page where i complained about apple’s
in fact, i mentioned this in my previous article, although some people seemed to have completely missed the page where i complained about apple’s outrageous prices altogether.
if you're stupid enough to pay retail for a dell, then apple just might be the computer for you.ouch1 08/04/2008 5:49 pm
anonymous 08/04/2008 6:31 pm this article has no intellectual honesty whatsoever.
that begs the question, especially here:what’s so special  about a mac anyway?
the laptops especially slow to a crawl unless they have >2gb of ram.
i respect the fact that you 'tried' (keyword here is tried) to show the good qualities of mac computers, however this is mainly an enthusiast site, so you will be very hard pressed to fool us into thinking apple offerings are anywhere near as good as others (especially on price/performance ratio).
in terms of hardware, there’s nothing really special about a mac aside from elegant designs, be it a mac pro or macbook pro, that makes it incredibly more worthwhile than the pc equivalent.
so  where do things get really hairy with apple?
even still,  let’s settle this issue about price.
for the most part, the two systems are comparable, indicating that at least for a laptop, apple’s pricing fits in line with comparable hardware.
why compare prices with a dell xps?
you can get a better performing pc for a fraction of the cost, and its not a misconception.
for absolute performance, the screen size won’t matter here, but the slow shared graphics memory on the xps will.
after my first article on macs and os x, there were several readers who just down right bashed macs for pricing and os x without solid reasoning or legitimate hand’s on experience of macs.
for a laptop that dell indicates is a gaming machine, shared memory is a disappointment, as graphics is an important area for 3d gaming.
and to generalize it this way shows the lack of willing to understand the core of the mac: it’s operating system.
let’s take a look at the results.
the os is proprietary since the eula states you cannot use it on non-apple hardware.
btw i am both a pc and mac owner.
the person who wrote this article should be more objective.
you should be a little embarrased having published this article.
apple vs. dell price comparison $1999 macbook pro $1999 dell xps m1730 2.4 ghz core 2 duo 2.4 ghz core 2 duo 2 gb of ram 2 gb of shared ram nvidia geforce 8600m gt with  256 mb nvidia geforce 8700m gt with shared mb 200 gb hdd
let’s take a quick look at some of apple’s competition and their pricing structure compared to apple’s: we went to dell’s website and picked out what dell indicated was a serious gaming laptop.
macs and their prices 2.
we also took the xps model that was priced the same as the baseline macbook pro.
the m1530 starts at $1000, and with identical specs to the macbook pro (and vista ultimate), the price is $1650.
so where do things get really hairy with apple?
so that's a 42% premium for the mac.
certain things like shared memory for graphics leave some performance desires for the xps, but the xps has a strong leg up on the macbook pro with the larger screen size.
the number of people that want a super thin and light notebook, or need a dual quad core machine, are very few.
the truth to apple's pricing the advantage: running mac os x and windows vista opengl interface, quick view, dashboard integrated utilities, and built-in options windows is getting better too the never ending pc and mac war next page
for absolute performance, the screen size won’t matter here, but  the slow shared graphics memory on the xps will.
macs and their prices we build a pc to match a baseline mac pro total misconceptions and being severely...
don't get me wrong...
oh and another thing - if you play games at all, you can forget the apple.
tom’s hardware isn’t about being a "pc fanboy."
so this is a follow-up.
the biggest differences are the screen size, weight, thickness, and shared  memory.
it’s about finding the best hardware, revealing up and coming tech and debunking predetermined notions.
additional thought: the author's main point is that macs are similarly priced to pc's.
200 gb  hdd 15.4-inch led lcd 17-inch lcd 1440x900
i need an os for my new system so since os x isn't proprietary, can you please point me to where i can pick up a copy to run on my computer.
they messed up big time with this article.
the next version of photoshop will only natively support x64 in windows.
total misconceptions and being severely misinformed 4.
apple vs. dell price comparison $1999 macbook pro $1999 dell xps m1730
how you are comparing base model mac's to bleeding edge pc's.
please stop comparing the two.
it's for your own good.
mostly, scratch that, everyone i know that owns a mac, has it because, like you said, they want to be cool.
i priced a matching xps 1530 (same size screen and resolution), with identical specs to the mac, excepting only the built-in bluetooth, for $1399.
windows is getting better too 9.
and yes, i'm being brutally honest here...
for $1549 i purchase an hp laptop w/ 4 gb of ram, 20.1 inch screen, blu-ray, 5 speakers, and an nvidia 8800 gts.
let’s get straight to the point.
but if you’re interested in alternatives read on.
the author is being disingenuous by picking for comparison laptops at non-discounted prices.
for another comparison, let’s look at the macbook air to  voodoopc’s envy 133:
tomshardware used to be my favorite site, because it had objective, technical articles.
shared ram 80 gb ata hdd 80 gb hdd 13.3-inch led lcd 13.3-inch  lcd 1280x800 1280x800 external esata
macbook pro power cord and the magsafe design literally saved the laptops from flying.
let’s just see where apple comes in on hardware.
apples are designed to look good and be reliable.
macbook pro 15-inch widescreen display backlit keyboard hp pavilion entertainment dv5t $1,124.99 * – genuine windows vista home premium with service pack 1 (32-bit) * – intel(r) core(tm)2
there is yet to be a rational pro-osx argument aside from the general idea of "usability," which, admittedly, apple spends a lot of time on and usually gets right.
1920x1200 dual-layer dvd burner dual-layer dvd burner 802.11n
pick a better comparison tom, seriously!anonymous 08/04/2008 6:16 pm wow tuan?
also lets go ahead and say that the 8600m gt is faster than the 8700m gt.
let’s take a quick look at some of apple’s competition and  their pricing structure compared to apple’s: we went to dell’s website and picked out what dell indicated was a  serious gaming laptop.
i bought an acer laptop from newegg.com 2 weeks ago for $399.
not only that, pc's aren't "sole source", like macs, leaving open the option to shop around for a better deal.russki 08/04/2008 6:37 pm it would be a shame to regurgitate the above posts, but again, quite lackluster, tuan.
and there’s no doubt  that you can get an equally equipped pc, or build one yourself, for less money.
although the envy 133 does include an external optical drive, tacking on apple’s quite expensive $99 macbook air superdrive to the purchase of the macbook air still leaves a $200 gap.
out of the box, for a clueless person, macs are indeed a good (albeit expensive; read the posts above) option.
pmr100 08/04/2008 6:19 pm macbooks are way overpriced.
you then say mac charges a premium.
although the envy 133 does include an external optical drive, tacking on  apple’s quite expensive $99 macbook air superdrive to the purchase of the  macbook air still leaves a $200 gap.
you attempt to argue mac's are similarly priced to pc's.
the pc will always win in the price category (and usually performance as well) because you pay for the reliability and style of apple.
because that’s really what it’s about.
your component list, and laptop comparisons were clearly set up to put the mac at an advantage.
for $2000, do you really get much less?
it’s a guide to give people options.
i have seen several incidences where people have tripped over or through someone else’s
that blazing 16ms response time is insane.
apple never discounts their products.
that just goes to prove for that same cost as a very high end pc you can get a base model mac with a very proprietary os (i.e. can't install it on anything but a mac with invoking the jobs cops, check the eula).
if you’re happy with what you’ve got, great!
they really aren't designed to be performers for cheap.
oh yes another $200, so thats a $400 gap, and you still have a smaller screen, no blue ray drive, a smaller harddrive, and half the video memory.
macbook pro, 15-inch, 2.4ghz $1,999.00 part number: mb133ll/a 2.4ghz intel core 2 duo 2gb 667mhz ddr2 sdram -
high end specialty systems are always going to draw a high price; that is to be expected; that apple is competitive in the $3000 range does not matter to the vast vast majority of people who spend not even half that.
dell always has deals with $400-$500 off.
it’s about finding the  best hardware, revealing up and coming tech and debunking predetermined  notions.
however, building a pc to do the same isn’t the point, because you can always buy a cheaper car to get you from a to b. instead, let’s see what you can get for $2000, from apple and from others.
i know people are going to shoot me for this, but i find all of the fancy desktop effects to be very laggy except on laptops with a dedicated video card.
cherry picking over-priced pcs does little to prove your point.
we also took the xps model that was priced the same as  the baseline macbook pro.
because there are so many many pc vendors, it should not be hard to find one that is screwing its customers like apple and charging too much; but the prices at the store shelf tell the true story.
after my first article on macs and os x, there were several readers who  just down right bashed macs for pricing and os x without solid reasoning or  legitimate hand’s on experience of macs.
obviously if you build a pc with the exact same overpriced hardware, it will be exactly the same price.
for another comparison, let’s look at the macbook air to voodoopc’s envy 133:apple vs. voodoopc price comparison $1799 macbook air $2099 envy 133 at this point, the envy is $300 more expensive than the macbook air.
games just aren't made for it and the ones that are come out 1 year after the pc release.
http://shop3.frys.com/product/5635
for the most part, the two systems are comparable, indicating that at least  for a laptop, apple’s pricing fits in line with comparable hardware.
i'd install vista on it.
how about mac monitors?
wow, you took a pc desktop with identical hardware and proved that it would cost the same as the baseline mac pro.
i see no point to your obvious mac-fanboyism, though i'm sure you'd argue there is a point and that you are not a mac fanboy.
for the same price the windows package runs the same cpu, 4gb memory, a 320gb hdd, better graphics, 16" screen 16:9 widescreen, a choice of 3 nice cases, wireless 300n router, microsoft office home and student and a logitech vxnano wireless mouse.
apple vs. voodoopc price comparison $1799 macbook air $2099 envy 133 1.6 ghz core 2 duo 1.6 ghz core 2 duo 2 gb of shared ram 2 gb of shared ram intel gma x3100
the advantage: running mac os x and windows vista 6.
no software package at this point, the envy is $300 more expensive than the macbook air.
those things may justify the extra cost for some, but this article attempts to prove that macs are the same price.
certain things like shared memory for graphics leave some performance desires  for the xps, but the xps has a strong leg up on the macbook pro with the larger  screen size.
however, building a pc to do the same isn’t  the point, because you can always buy a cheaper car to get you from a to b.  instead, let’s see what you can get for $2000, from apple and from  others.
i completely agree that osx is awesome and so are mac's ergonomics.
the one-button mouse must die.
i have  seen several incidences where people have tripped over or through someone  else’s macbook pro power cord and the magsafe design literally saved the  laptops from flying.
i’ll talk about this later.
in terms of hardware, there’s nothing really special about a mac  aside from elegant designs, be it a mac pro or macbook pro, that makes it  incredibly more worthwhile than the pc equivalent.
so i'll take your word for it.
the point is you can pick a pc with cheaper hardware that can perform better.
the main point is that with pc's you have hundreds of different vendors i can buy a computer from.
but you know what, i want to see what all the hype is about.
however i do have solid reasoning.
it is comparing apples to apple pie.
and i use all 5+ buttons on my mouse and the scroll wheels.
please if you make the mistake of buy an airbook have fun changing the battery (you can't) or watching a dvd while on the road (again you can't no built in dvd drive).hixbot 08/04/2008
the hardware in the pc will be cheaper, faster alternatives...
you can build a pc with hardware that isn't identical but performs better for cheaper.
even still, let’s settle this issue about price.
how about you go down to your local frys/bestbuy or w/e and look at prices.
just look at the laptop below.
it has many cool utilities.
seriously, i have no idea why he compares the macs to pcs with the exact same overpriced hardware.
picking the same overpriced pc components doesnt prove anything.
the truth to apple's pricing 5.
but let's face it, thats not why people have macs.
http://store.apple.com/us/product/
who wrote this, honestly?
here’s the short answer: nothing really, just some very elegant  aluminum chassis designs.
also that dell is designed for sli graphics cards upto two 8800m gtx with 1gb of memory, lets see the 6lb macbook pro do that.
super multi drive 802.11n
let’s take a look at desktops.
because that’s really what  it’s about.
in a recent comment, someone came up with an analogy that a mac isn’t  really abmw, but rather a hyundai dressed up in a nice exterior.
one problem: hyundai’s don’t have nice european car exteriors.
i gotta say though, i was forced to use one of these atrocities at a bestbuy the other day to access internet, and i was quite turned off by several things that appeared to be major annoyances.
apple’s macbook pro has several small advantages over the xps, mainly  with the magsafe connector and it’s nearly take-for-granted use.
the key, is the operating system.
everyone says that os x is faster and yada yada yada.
also, the 8700m gt will outperform the 8600gt, and i am unable to find where it specifies that the 8700 has shared graphics memory.
2x1gb 200gb serial ata @ 5400 rpm superdrive 8x dvd+r dl/dvd+rw/cd-rw)
furthermore you choose two out of three products that are low volume special use items.
we know what we're buying, we know what each piece of hardware is capable of doing, you can't just throw fancy numbers at us and expect us to fall for it.
that begs the question, especially here:what’s so special about a mac anyway?
mac is a brand name, so is dell, hp, alienware, voodoo...
sony, with the same processor, better graphics, double the ram, bigger hard drive, and a blue ray drive, for $200 less.
[...] in_rslt_pg how much does it cost to get 4gb of ram on an apple,
that my dear journalist is not comparing apples to apples.
better luck next time.
integrated utilities, and built-in options 8.
wi-fi built in webcam built in  webcam backlit kb with ambient sensor backlit kb with ambient sensor dvi output hdmi magsafe power standard  female/male jack 3.0 lbs 3.37 lbs (with ssd) 0.16 to 0.75 inch thick 0.70 inch thick ilife ’08
let’s just see where apple comes in  on hardware.
dell sells the xps m1530 which is a 15.4 inch laptop designed more for multimedia than for gaming (similar to the mac).
you still want that macbook for the same $?
although osx is *nix (i think bsd) based, *nix it is not.
outrageous prices altogether.
my gripe with apple's pricing is that there are no real budget oriented options.
they look awesome, are well built, have an awesome retail presence, and they are right for some people... just not for me.
comparing thickness and weight of a 17" laptop vs a 15" macbook pro. sounds fair to me.
then halfway through the article, he states that mac prices are at a premium because it's from a top-shelf manufacturer and it is sold to cater to a "lifestyle.
opengl interface, quick view, dashboard 7.
the biggest differences are the screen size, weight, thickness, and shared memory.
search| note: this isn’t a guide to evangelize and convert people from windows to mac os x.
the thing is, with the first article i thought you were just sharing your personal opinion, however, with this article it's clear you're an apple fanboy and will be labeled as such.
i read the first page and stopped.
in a recent comment, someone came up with an analogy that a mac isn’t really abmw, but rather a hyundai dressed up in a nice exterior.
what can you get for $399 at the apple store - a tricked out ipod?
the envy has a carbon fiber chassis.
wi-fi 802.11g wi-fi built in webcam built in webcam backlit kb with ambient sensor optical audio  output/input spdif through dongle dual-link dvi output dual-link  dvi output remote magsafe power standard female/male jack 5.4 lbs 10.6 lbs 1  inch thick 2 inch thick