the app  is priced at £11.99
the apple software is also some of the industry's finest, if you know how to use it that is.
duplex printing, as you'd expect, was noticeably slower, adding a good third onto the time to print the same documents on a single side.
but it's the best start to getting the most from the game.
measuring 27 inches diagonally, it packs in a core-i7 sandy bridge cpu, 8gb  of ram, up to 1.8tb of storage space (with ssd options), a 2gb discrete  graphics card and a blu-ray drive.
it allows for the playback of hd video, as well as having the ability to  carry out day-to-day computing tasks such as word processing and spreadsheet  management, and also play less intensive games.
anyone who has ever pulled off a split-kick double  takedown ininternational karate +, or ran through the legs of the stay  puft marshmallow man inghostbusters will sing the machine's praises.
the app will give you full access to your  computer, if it is in sleep mode the phone will access the server and wake the  computer up for use.
and try&decide tools.
getting off the catwalk and into the tech-specs, the u46 has a sandy bridge  intel core i5 processor, backed up by a nvidia geforce gt540m graphics chip,  1gb of gddr3 video memory and 4gb of ram.
so far only the asus vg278h 27-inch (1920x1080) monitor works with lightboost, though acer and benq models are coming soon, promise nvidia.
it's not just a method of company progression, it is a way to empower a diverse workforce.
the software takes advantage of installing the operating systems as a  virtual machine, making any additional operating system run faster by not
the software takes advantage of installing the operating systems as a virtual machine, making any additional operating system run faster by not putting additional pressure on the ram and cpu of your computer.
some are very simple such as changing blood to a green colour but some are a bit more interesting and often down-right hilarious.
in the same principle the software also  allows the user to transfer over their whole pc to their mac, all their  personal files, installed software, everything will be transferred saving all  your investment into older machines.
- under the [display] tab there are two commands that you will need to change to the value of 1.
via: engadget name: kodak hero 9.1 type: all-in-one printer/scanner/copier specs: click here for full specs price: £199.99 the kodak hero 9.1 throws into the mix pretty much every high-end feature you can think of for a consumer all-in-one printer.
to sign up for more news on project fiona, head over to razer's dedicated page.
giant tablet, or touchscreen pc?
environmental is also more prominent with the new glasses, meaning you wont  have to strain to read your keyboard keys.
in keeping with the rest of the hero range's  boxy look, the rectangular hero 9.1 features a mix of gloss and black plastics,  as well as brushed metal effects either side of the print tray and a red trim  just under the scanner lid.
mobile  world congress 2008 (72) monitors (55) mother's day 2011
but using this  tweak to change the shadowing effects on trees and other land objects will  offer a noticeable improvement to the look of some of the large forest areas of  the world map: - open the skyrimprefs.ini again, and again back it up.
only one physical button (the power one) sits on the hero 9.1's
it's also the thinnest convertible ultrabook yet (of which there are  admittedly few), measuring just 16.9mm deep and weighing 1.47kg.
-under the heading [display], insert the line  'ipresentinterval=0" to switch off vsync and save the .ini file.
the scanner lid has an automatic document feeder, letting you scan multiple sheets in one go without having to replace each one manually.
they took an age to load, but offered  hours upon hours of fun.
in all tests however, text was crisp and sharp.
most pertinently, it's caught the attention of educators, with mp michael
the 9.1 only manages single-side scanning however.
"thin and powerful is where it is at for us," dell's marketing director alison gardner toldthe verge.
plus sees the laptop perform well even in direct sunlight, while the battery should stretch to 7 hours with moderate usage.
be sure to extend your page margins manually before printing  duplex pages as a result, or you'll end up with considerable space around the  edges of your prints.
the differing specification configurations available are as follows: processor intel®
a word of warning though: this can actually burn out your graphics card so is really not advised unless you know exactly what you're doing.
click here for full details price: £39.95 (£23.95 if upgrading from previous  edition) backing-up pc data can be a chore, but it's a necessary pain if  you hope to protect your sensitive and precious files from the odd ghost in the  system.
costing just under £22, the credit-card sized pc sold out just minutes after going on sale earlier today.
set network bandwidth limits so that your uploads to the acronis servers don't totally drain your internet speeds.
a touchscreen this big makes a  massively good impression; it not only allows a full qwerty keyboard to be  displayed, making the wi-fi set up really simple, but also gives you a far more  legible look at any snaps you plan to print off too using the hero 9.1's  front-mounted usb and memory card ports.
razer are the latest tech manufacturer to tease their ces 2012 hand prior to next week's big show in las vegas.
tech digest top 30 (3)
this sort of software also brings opportunities to mac users that they may never have had before, gaming would be increased with window's games now being played on macbooks and for professionals, more advanced graphic software such as autodesk applications.
so if you think that something would suit the software you have a say and the company an consider developing it.
here's how to make  it work: - before making any patches always backup your original exe just in  case something goes wrong.
stateside readers however will be able to get their hands on the  omnia 27 from january 8, with prices starting at $1,200 (£767).
due out in february in the uk, now pricing for our shores has yet been  revealed.
a developer preview at the annual microsoft build event showed qualcomm  snapdragon chips and the company's gobi 3g/4g wireless internet connectivity  chips powering a prototype windows 8 pc.
my book essential 3tb external hard drive lots of students do not  know exactly the right way to write the europe essays paper.
install patch large address aware patch like many bethesda games, skyrim is capped to use no more that 2gb of ram;  even if you have 12gb the game will reserve the rest for other uses on your  computer.
while the size offers a larger viewing area than  before, lightboost boasts 2x brighter 3d images than previous 3d solutions, and  also improves colour reproduction.
install patch large address aware patch like many bethesda games, skyrim is capped to use no more that 2gb of ram; even if you have 12gb the game will reserve the rest for other uses on your computer.
hp's new ceo meg whitman is feeling the  monetary burn too; she's taken the post with just a base salary of $1.
that low wage isn't to say whitman wont make a pretty penny from her new post.
alienware have today announced the launch of the x51 mini gaming desktop.
whatever the motivation, the following guide will help you tweak your pc
to try and provide a bridge between the two operating systems parallels has come out with their software parallels desktop 7.
it's a pity it doesn't come with a blu-ray drive; the one thing stopping the mini-desktop from being a true living room media hub.
while it's very easy to get your hands on a commodore 64 emulator (there's  even one as an app for apple devices), and just as easy to pick up a retro  machine from ebay, a new company calledcommodore usa in 2012 began to produce a  new machine called the commodore 64x.
the hero 9.1 is  compatible with google's cloud printing service, further expanding your  on-the-go print options and effectively doing away with the need to ever have  it permanently tethered to your desktop machine.
the software allows you to run multiple operating systems on your macbook bringing together the best hardware and software together.
it looks that way, though gardner cleverly avoided using the term and all the weight of expectation the new product category brings with it.
previous 1 2 3 nexttop ten must-see 3d movies of 2012 - the hobbit, prometheus and more!
we'll be keeping a close eye on dell in the coming months to see how they  approach this exciting new sector of the pc market.
the kodak hero 9.1 uses a single cartridge for all of its colour pools.
however, it's a fully-working  arm-based pc, with a hmdi port, two usb ports, ethernet, audio output and an sd  card slot.
experiment, but from a lot of forum opinions 80-85 seem to do the world justice.
- tick  "app can handle >2gb address space" and click ok - save by  clicking the disc icon and overwrite the file when prompted you will need to keep the backup copy of your.
well we've now seen it in person, and it's just as impressive as it seemed.
trackpad gestures are supported in all programs related to windows, a nice addition, you still feel like your working with the quality of a mac computer.
24-carat gold macbook pro  may have ice, but just isn't cool  smell-o-vision: whiffing its way to your  nostrils soon!
these are among a long list of features already present in previous versions of true image home 2012.
" someone get this notebook a mars bar!
you can control  everything from core voltages to fan speeds, pushing your card to the max.
"we are excited to be at build to show the windows ecosystem and how we are working together towards commercialization of apps and hardware that will run windows 8," said luis pineda, senior vice president of product management, computing and consumer products at qualcomm.
the active shutter glasses, paired with an ir emitter that works alongside compatible nvidia graphics cards, now feature 20% larger lenses that feature the new lightboost technology.
one for those who like to admire a kill is the enhanced blood textures  which will improve the resolution of the blood textures in the game, and it one  of the most noticeable of all the mods.
stateside readers however will be able to get their hands on the omnia 27 from january 8, with prices starting at $1,200 (£767).
you'll need to pop into the company's touchsmart line if multi-touch gestures  and swiping is what you're after.
you have so much knowledge about this issue, and so much  passion....
change shadow settings for trees and land objects
the holiday record sheet, filling out the dates, sending the  paperwork to hr, waiting for the form to be returned on and on and on.
if you choose to go down the web-connected route, you also open up the ability to use kodak's cloud printing service, that lets you send documents to be printed to the unit no matter where you are in the world.
it is usually a very big step  to go from windows to osx, i know for me it was a huge step at first and
blackberry (36) blu-ray (251) broadband (379) camcorders (249) cameras (833)  car stuff (3) cases, covers & bags (44)
some companies are being left behind, some are flying ahead on the wings  ever-developing technology and others are beginning to understand that a  diverse modern workforce can do an awful lot for themselves in terms of keeping  their personal details up to date.
a great gift for fans of the original  machine, it completely keeps the bulky build of the computer, but adds modern  specifications like dual-core, 1.8ghz intel atom d525 chip, an nvidia ion 2  gpu, wi-fi and a blu-ray drive.
if you are not that literate when it comes to computers, parallels has a  feature called parallels wizard that will run through most of the installation  automatically, choosing the best settings for your computer.
verdict: it's not the cheapest all-in-one on the market, nor the fastest, but the kodak hero 9.1 does deliver solid print and scanning results, as well as offering a premium feature set that you'll be hard pressed to comprehensively find elsewhere.
in fact it looks  pretty impressive.
the main idea behind this software if ease of use, it is about making the  bridge between pc users going to mac a lot safer and secure.
self-service hr software does not in any way reduce the amount of control  management has over the overall hr records - employees will only be provided  access to relevant data input areas of the hr record, management can securely  extract report data that may be required and can also input secure data  themselves, restricting some data entry from employee access.
dual-layer burner (dvd±rw) (standard) audio internal high-definition 7.1 performance audio with waves maxx audio  software wireless integrated 802.11 a/b/g/n wi-fi wireless lan when you keep in mind that all components are of standard size, meaning  they'll be easily upgradeable in the future
- run the cff explorer -
a  word of warning though: this can actually burn out your graphics card so is  really not advised unless you know exactly what you're doing.
read on for our verdict.
be it online back-ups, file-based  or continuous incremental back-ups of whole drives as they update, drive image  creation or images of partitions, the software pops all methods into a single  neat product.
it's not without its quirks, and the full suite of online support isn't the  most competitively priced, but it comes strongly recommended nonetheless..
and your blood too...
someone get this notebook a mars bar!
technology deathmatch (10) this week's top five (6) today on  tech digest (38) top 100 christmas presents (20) top fives (67) top stories  (471)
here's how to install it: - download the file from skyrimnexus and they will be downloaded as a  rar.
" expect to see the lenovo ideapad yoga starting at $1199 (around £775)  when it lands sometime in the second half of the year.
it's all presented in such a way as to be make it comfortable to use for even those who find the thought of back-up processed intimidating.
it's not just a  method of company progression, it is a way to empower a diverse workforce.
we'll be keeping a close eye on dell in the coming months to see how they approach this exciting new sector of the pc market.
- for trees, change the line btreesreceiveshadows=0 to  btreesreceiveshadows=1 - for objects out in the world, change the line  bdrawlandshadows=0 to bdrawlandshadows=1 -save the .ini file, close and  enjoy!
lenovo ideapad yoga hands-on by gerald lynch on  january 11, 2012 comments (0) remember the lenovo ideapad yoga hybrid ultrabook/tablet device we showed  you yesterday?
if you are not that literate when it comes to computers, parallels has a feature called parallels wizard that will run through most of the installation automatically, choosing the best settings for your computer.
click here for more info, or hit the video above for a short video demo of  the device.
it is usually a very big step to go from windows to osx, i know for me it was a huge step at first and sometimes you really want the comfort of your old pc as a safety net.
ah, the first world problems we face every  day in consumer technology.
though the a720 can  stand tall like a regular all-in-one desktop machine, it also folds flat to be  used as a massive tabletop tablet device.
here's how to find and change your vsync configuration: - go to my documents - my games - skyrim (directories may differ depending on your personal install preferences, or if you're playing the game through steam) - locate skyrimprefs.ini, make a back-up copy of it, and open it with notepad.
a re-vamped  interface opens with a "get started", which offers tutorials on  "how to back up?", "when to recover?"
from: mwc 2008: second life now runs on... an iphone?!
it is so efficient that the older ways of authorising holiday leave cannot be comprehended.
gove suggesting the device could have significant value for schools at a time  when the uk education system is being criticised for its lack of computer  science teaching.
the pairing of the fast processor  and ssd allow for the inclusion of samsung's "fast start" technology,  which sees the machine wake up and ready to work in just 1.48 seconds.
-under the heading [display], insert the line 'ipresentinterval=0" to switch off vsync and save the .ini file.
i'm now eating tesco's own-brand caviar, and have managed to cut down to just four bottles of champagne a week.
step 4: field of view want to take in more of skyrim's beautiful settings?
can its print speed  and quality live up to the allure of its silky 4.3 inch touchscreen and  cloud-printing capabilities?
the message, sent to a trade partner, states that 10.1 inch devices will be  getting the chop, with samsung to re-focus their energies on the ultrabook  sector.
ah, the first world problems we face every day in consumer technology.
a developer preview at the annual microsoft build event showed qualcomm snapdragon chips and the company's gobi 3g/4g wireless internet connectivity chips powering a prototype windows 8 pc.
a 10-sheet set of single sided black-and-white text documents printed in two minutes and one second, while a twenty page set of single sided documents sped up noticeably, taking three minutes and 47 seconds.
now only i have got it.
without any sort of casing and with its chips and components fully exposed,  the raspberry pi isn't much of a looker.
featuring a lush, edge-to-edge 27 inch 1080p display, it packs all its  innards, including a 2tb hard drive, hdmi input, blu-ray drive and quad-core  intel processor, into its tabletop chassis.
well  as mad new concept designs likerazer's project fiona tablet), there's plenty of  fun to be had and innovative hardware to gawk at.
share how to: tweak skyrim's ultra pc graphics and install mods by greg  collins on november 16, 2011 comments (0)
the overall benefits of a self-service hr function reduces the number of errors that can occur in terms of change of address for example and more importantly reduces dramatically the amount of paper work that can at times swamp hr departments.
while it's very easy to get your hands on a commodore 64 emulator (there's even one as an app for apple devices), and just as easy to pick up a retro machine from ebay, a new company calledcommodore usa in 2012 began to produce a new machine called the commodore 64x.
share razer tease project fiona: "pc gaming in an all-new form factor" by gerald lynch on january 4, 2012 comments (0) razer are the latest tech manufacturer to tease their ces 2012 hand  prior to next week's big show in las vegas.
managing all these options could potentially  become a pain, but again a clear ui means that it's simply a matter of checking  a list in the back-up and recovery tab to keep on top of everything lined up.
self-service hr software also provides an effective method for management to access employee's individual data and to monitor such things as holiday leave, sickness absence and can be an effective tool to conduct appraisal or performance reviews.
the pc peripheral makers have been making tentative steps into the realm of gaming machines for a few years now, capturing the public eye with the boldly designedswitchblade and razer blade machines.
"following the introduction of our new strategy in q1 2012, we stop  the product range in 10.1" (netbook) in q1 2012 for the benefit of  ultraportables products (11.6 and 12-inches) and ultrabooks to be launched in  2012," reveals the email.
in just 45 seconds we had a 4 x 6 inch holiday snap sitting in our hands, ready to be tucked inside an album.
archives are created in manageable  sizes, and the true image home 2012 processes can run happily in the background  without hogging too much of your system's resources.
putting additional pressure on the ram and cpu of your computer.
by gerald lynch  onjanuary 4, 2012 comments (0) hp are looking to wipe tech fans clean of an lingering touchpad and webos  memories with the launch of the promising new hp omnia 27 all-in-one pc.
" "collaborating with qualcomm to deliver windows 8-based pcs will help  deliver a high-performance and differentiated experience for customers,"  added mike angiulo, corporate vice president of windows planning, hardware and  pc ecosystem, microsoft.
we'll look forward to getting our hands on one of these when it launches on february 6th.
her "compensation package" will offer plenty of room to earn significant bonuses, as well as the opportunity to nab 1.9 million shares in hp through the company's 2004 stock incentive plan.
share samsung to slide out of netbook market next year?
the only large specification you will need will be hard drive space, you will need around 15gb for every operating system.
launching by the end of the month, the nvidia 3d vision 2 kit will be available from all major pc retailers for $149, as well as nvidia's online store.
anyone who has ever pulled off a split-kick double takedown ininternational karate +, or ran through the legs of the stay puft marshmallow man inghostbusters will sing the machine's praises.
no touching the hp omnia 27 quad-core all-in-one pc
the pairing of the fast processor and ssd allow for the inclusion of samsung's "fast start" technology, which sees the machine wake up and ready to work in just 1.48 seconds.
managing all these options could potentially become a pain, but again a clear ui means that it's simply a matter of checking a list in the back-up and recovery tab to keep on top of everything lined up.
regardless, a $1 salary has become a somewhat-lucky figure in tech circles.
environmental is also more prominent with the new glasses, meaning you wont have to strain to read your keyboard keys.
a tame machine by today's standards, its 8-bit charms with a mos technology 6510 processor running at a 1mhz, 64k of memory and 16-colour graphics chip were as good as it got upon release in 1982.
exe file that was changed with cff explorer because when you update your game, you will need to copy the backup .exe
coreâ¢ i7-2600 (3.40ghz, 8mb l3 cache, 8c) graphics 1gb nvidia® geforce® gt 545 1gb nvidia® geforce® gtx 555 memory 4096mb (2x2gb)
the hero 9.1 is fairly cost effective too, working out at roughly 2.25p per black and white sheet and 3.8p for colour prints, including paper costs.
if you have a high-end card you may want to turn off vsync in order to get a better frame rate from your game.
the former ebay ceo, replacing leo apotheker, was brought in following  apotheker's claims that hp were looking to sell off its hardware arm.
measuring 27 inches diagonally, it packs in a core-i7 sandy bridge cpu, 8gb of ram, up to 1.8tb of storage space (with ssd options), a 2gb discrete graphics card and a blu-ray drive.
the bulky brown home computing box of choice of the 1980's hits the three  decade landmark this month, and is fondly remembered by many a tech fan  (including this very tech digest writer) as their first experience with home  computing.
for forward looking companies it is a progressive process and for  organisations with paper based hr functions it has got to be something they  must consider.
the kodak hero 9.1 uses a single cartridge for all of its  colour pools.
revealed back at ces, the series 9 is the world's slimmest laptop,  measuring just 12.9mm, and set to go toe-to-toe with apple's macbook air line.
fast and  efficient self-service hr software is now the way of the world for leading edge  businesses.
in these hard economic times, we're all having to make a few sacrifices.
in keeping with the rest of the hero range's boxy look, the rectangular hero 9.1 features a mix of gloss and black plastics, as well as brushed metal effects either side of the print tray and a red trim just under the scanner lid.
november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may  2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november  2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april  2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october  2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march  2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006  september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006  february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 september  2005 august 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 april 2005 march 2005 february  2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004  august 2004 july 2004 june 2004 may 2004 april 2004 march 2004 february 2004  january 2004 december 2003 november 2003 october 2003 september 2003 august 2003 july 2003 may 2003 find us on twitter get rss feed subscribe to our  daily email site editor
so you have got skyrim on your pc and it looks good.
" share asus u46 notebook has super skinny screen
this sort of software also brings opportunities to mac users that they may  never have had before, gaming would be increased with window's games now being  played on macbooks and for professionals, more advanced graphic software such  as autodesk applications.
replacing every spider in the game with cuddly bears will help with any fears; they just want a hug.
the program had a few  issues recognising a crucial solid-state drive we were testing with that hadn't  been assigned a drive letter, but it's a problem that seemed unique to our  set-up.
here's how to install it: - download the file from skyrimnexus and they will be downloaded as a rar.
here's how to find and change your vsync configuration: - go to my documents - my games - skyrim (directories may differ  depending on your personal install preferences, or if you're playing the game  through steam) - locate skyrimprefs.ini, make a back-up copy of it, and  open it with notepad.
a tame machine by today's standards, its 8-bit charms with a mos technology  6510 processor running at a 1mhz, 64k of memory and 16-colour graphics chip  were as good as it got upon release in 1982.
previous 1 2 3 next top ten must-see 3d movies of 2012 - the hobbit, prometheus and  more!
- under  the [display] tab there are two commands that you will need to change to the  value of 1.
augmented reality (10) awards (35) baby gadgets (6)  bafta video games
those looking for very specific back-up tools will be pleased to discover  true home image 2012's email back-up
the app is priced at £11.99
a commodore 65 prototype was built, but never hit  mass production.
to try and provide a bridge between the two operating systems parallels has  come out with their software parallels desktop 7.
two paper trays feature, one each for 100 regular  a4 sheets and another solely for 40 pieces of photo paper.
boosting brightness levels for a more vibrant gaming experience.
though the a720 can stand tall like a regular all-in-one desktop machine, it also folds flat to be used as a massive tabletop tablet device.
you'll need to pop into the company's touchsmart line if multi-touch gestures and swiping is what you're after.
lastly, printing and scanning.
however, when it comes to colour prints you could argue that that figure could  erratically jump.
with a 4.3 inch  touchscreen, wi-fi and internet connectivity, duplex printing and cloud  printing, it ticks every box when it comes to high-end printer features.
however, with neither the switchblade nor razer blade yet available to buy,  will project fiona prove to be the final realisation of razer's gaming machine  vision, or just another prototype to linger in development hell?
no word yet on a uk launch.
however, when it comes to colour prints you could argue that that figure could erratically jump.
to adjust the field of view, while in game press the '~' to bring up the  console and enter 'fov xx'.
if you want to be getting  the most out of your upgraded card then download the program and toggle the  settings in order to get the maximum potential from the card.
the restriction of access operates through a system of access privilege levels.
the only large  specification you will need will be hard drive space, you will need around 15gb  for every operating system.
but if you're playing a game you're unlikely to be doing anything  else all that intensive.
from: how twitter broke story of amy winehouse's  death before mainstream media: 10 per cent of tweets
how does a self-service hr system operate when such things as a holiday  request requires approval - quite simply the system utilises an e-mail alert  system.
1333mhz ddr3 dual channel 6144mb (1x4gb) (1x2gb) 1333mhz ddr3 dual channel 8192mb (2x4gb) 1333mhz ddr3 dual channel hard drive 1tb (32mb cache)
without any sort of casing and with its chips and components fully exposed, the raspberry pi isn't much of a looker.
for every tree, rock and flower there is always a shadow to go with it in  skyrim,that is, o course, unless you are a nocturnal adventurer.
- tick "app can handle >2gb address space" and click ok - save by clicking the disc icon and overwrite the file when prompted you will need to keep the backup copy of your.
we'd like to see dual-trays hit  consumer printers as standard.
things worked out pretty well for them, wouldn't you say? via: all things digital personnel management: a new way of thinking with hr self-service software
£22 raspberry pi pc pushes the value of coding skills by  gerald lynch on february 29, 2012 comments (0)
the holiday request generates an e-mail alert to line management - once authorised the employee receives an e-mail alert to indicate authorisation.
very efficient, very  secure and extremely effective in terms of employee time!
revealed back at ces, the series 9 is the world's slimmest laptop, measuring just 12.9mm, and set to go toe-to-toe with apple's macbook air line.
the hero 9.1 is compatible with google's cloud printing service, further expanding your on-the-go print options and effectively doing away with the need to ever have it permanently tethered to your desktop machine.
running windows 8, the 13.3 inch screen can be swivelled 360-degrees to position it in a laptop format with keyboard, flat slate like shape, a stand for watching video and, er, a tent as lenovo themselves like to describe it.
well we've now seen it in person, and it's just as impressive as  it seemed.
if  that occurs, just remove the line you added and re-save the file.
a way that this has been implemented is  with two hours worth of video tutorials built into the software with everything  from installation to getting started with parallels.
gadget shows (130)  gadgets (1994) gallery (169) gamescom 2010 (9) gaming (2404) google (218)  google+ (5) guides (17) hard drives (92) hd dvd (108) hdtv (493) headphones /  earphones (169) health (153) hi-fi systems (27) home appliances (189) home  audio (684) home cinema (626) html5 (1) icloud (8) ifa 2007 (41) ifa 2008 (36)  ifa 2010 (28) ifa 2011 (28) ifa news (38) intellectual property (203) internet  (1097) interview (19) interviews (92) ipad (268) ipad accessories (34) ipad  apps (116) iphone (801)
john lewis have a short initial period of exclusivity for the laptop, which  will hit their stores on 25th february.
it's an exciting time to a be a pc gamer.
but for those of you out there with some top-end hardware  sitting on your desk, you may want to make it look even more glorious as you  watch the sun set over a high off mountain range, watch the shiny blood gush  from the open wounds of your enemies, or just have a bit of fun with some mods.
"working closely with qualcomm allows us to maximize performance while maintaining a high level of energy efficiency.
self-service hr software also provides an effective  method for management to access employee's individual data and to monitor such  things as holiday leave, sickness absence and can be an effective tool to  conduct appraisal or performance reviews.
toys (153) transport (124) travel gadgets (58) tvs (525)  twitter (113) twitter (114) ultrabook (9) usb memory (68) vehicles (215) video  reviews (767) virtual reality (98)
from:  ps3 price cut due this august in time for christmas rush?
they took an age to load, but offered hours upon hours of fun.
for many, the machine was also their first taste of the delights of gaming  at home, stuffing cassette tapes into the c64 rather than stuffing their pocket  money into the local arcade machines.
dell's xps 14z is the closest thing they've built recently to what could be compared to a premium-feeling ultrabook, but would need to slim down even further without compromising on power to really get consumers pulses racing and offer a genuine challenge to apple's air range and the wave of ultrabooks on the way from samsung and acer.
a touchscreen this big makes a massively good impression; it not only allows a full qwerty keyboard to be displayed, making the wi-fi set up really simple, but also gives you a far more legible look at any snaps you plan to print off too using the hero 9.1's front-mounted usb and memory card ports.
after removing a series of  protective tags, inserting the print head and clicking in the two ink  cartridges, it's just a matter of switching it on, installing the relevant  drivers to your computer, and choosing whether to connect using a standard usb  cable, or over wi-fi or ethernet.
it is a big choice  switching operating systems and the easier and shorter the process the better  for the consumer at the end of the day.
if you're flushed with cash, the £199.99 kodak hero 9.1 is the  premium offering from the company's all-in-one printer range.
however, with neither the switchblade nor razer blade yet available to buy, will project fiona prove to be the final realisation of razer's gaming machine vision, or just another prototype to linger in development hell?
increasing the field of view will increase the angle from which you see the world, giving you a wider perspective of your surrounding area and also seeing some more of your characters hands and weapons.
exe file that was changed  with cff explorer because when you update your game, you will need to copy the  backup .exe
but for those of you out there with some top-end hardware sitting on your desk, you may want to make it look even more glorious as you watch the sun set over a high off mountain range, watch the shiny blood gush from the open wounds of your enemies, or just have a bit of fun with some mods.
you can simply drag and drop files across operating systems without  any file changing or reconfiguring.
if that occurs, just remove the line you added and re-save the file.
rather than focussing on one form of data back-up, the acronis true image home 2012 suite offers the complete package.
for more news from ces 2012, click here.
samsung's move is unexpected, but not wholly surprising.
click here for more info, or hit the video above for a short video demo of the device.
sitting on a hinge-forward design, the screen can tilt over the keys at  different angles to widen the viewing angle, running at a hd-ready resolution  of 1366x768.
iphone (142) iphone accessories (68) iphone apps (235)  ipod (366) ipod accessories (19) iptv (6) itunes (24) joost (8) keyboards (51)  kinect (4) korea/japan week (24) laptops / notebooks (611) le web 3 (11)  macworld 2007 (34) macworld 2008 (15) macworld 2009 (1) media (37) media player  (1) meet the bloggers (4) mice (51) microsoft (110) mobile phones (4452)
the software is priced at around £65 for the standard edition, the switch to my mac edition includes a usb cable in order to link together both pc's to transfer all your data.
the  world is a very fast paced place and with the ever increasing need for all  things to be done at speed, hr has had to move with the times.
hr self-service software is the way forward.
there's also enough smart features (like try and decide) to make even those  with their own tried-and-tested back-up methods consider giving this a try.
anyone looking to get into making chiptune music should definitely check out the c64 too.
in the same principle the software also allows the user to transfer over their whole pc to their mac, all their personal files, installed software, everything will be transferred saving all your investment into older machines.
- download the file from skyrimnexus and they will be downloaded as a rar.
sitting on a hinge-forward design, the screen can tilt over the keys at different angles to widen the viewing angle, running at a hd-ready resolution of 1366x768.
if you choose to go down the web-connected route, you also open up the  ability to use kodak's cloud printing service, that lets you send documents to  be printed to the unit no matter where you are in the world.
the single cartridge for all colours however is  a disappointment; while it may ease the set-up process, it does mean you wont  be able to eke the very last drops out of of each colour pool should one run  dry.
john lewis have a short initial period of exclusivity for the laptop, which will hit their stores on 25th february.
by gerald lynch on september 14, 2011 comments  (0) chip makers qualcomm have confirmed that their next gen s4 mobile  processors will support windows 8 pcs alongside tablets and smartphones when  microsoft's new system launches.
by shinychris on september 23, 2011 sponsored post it is impossible for companies to continue to remain stuck in their old way  of doing things, when it comes to human resources and personnel management.
it looks very stylish too.
you can control everything from core voltages to fan speeds, pushing your card to the max.
share them via the comments section below, ourtwitter feed or our facebook page, and we'll publish some of the best in a tech digest post!
it looks that way, though gardner cleverly avoided using the term and all  the weight of expectation the new product category brings with it.
to many who have only ever had a pc in their life, sometimes working with  apple's operating system can be quite a daunting task, everything is new and  there aren't any of your usual applications for doing your day to day tasks.
it's a slightly lengthy process but it's the best start to getting the most from the game.
out now, you can grab one from comet for £699.
sometimes you really want the comfort of your old pc as a safety net.
name: acronis true image home 2012 type: pc data back-up utility system requirements: click here for full details price: £39.95 (£23.95 if upgrading from previous edition) backing-up pc data can be a chore, but it's a necessary pain if you hope to protect your sensitive and precious files from the odd ghost in the system.
these are among a long list of features already present in previous  versions of true image home 2012.
pmp (28)  podcast (6) poll (20) polls (31) previews (126) previews (39) printers (43)  projectors (40) propellerhead news (33) propellerhead top tip (158) pub guru (2) pvr (4) quick pic (1) retail (22) retro gear (22) reviews (412) robots (380)  round ups (124) samsung (37) samsung galaxy (12) satellite navigation systems  (267) satellite tv (140) science (187) show news (43) skype (11) smartbooks (4)  social media (46) software (374) space (79) sponsored posts (12) sport (82)  spotify (63) startup of the day (24) stupid gadgets (35) tablet (388) tablet pc  (11) td live (8) td tips (20) tech digest news (4427)
very efficient, very secure and extremely effective in terms of employee time!
the rest, including home, back, help and preview keys, are touch sensitive, illuminating when they can be used to navigate a corresponding function on the gorgeous 4.3 inch touchscreen.
there's also a small hinge on the scanner lid, letting you more comfortable accommodate a book or magazine for scanning purposes.
"the ideapad yoga multi-mode notebook redefines the convergence and  convertible user experience by bringing together the best of traditional pcs,  with the best of tablets.
this is software that, for anyone considering the switch, would make the whole process that much simpler and a less stressful experience and with free updates always being produced it is a worthwhile investment.
though getting off to a slow start after being revealed at the 1981 ces  show,17 million units commodore 64 units went on to be sold.
"nvidia's engineering team has made incredible enhancements in 3d on  pcs, creating a breathtaking gaming experience that's better than the best  hollywood 3d movie."
again the interface is clear, letting you easily pick source and destination locations, and in the case of online and file back-up processes, offering check-box style controls to select the precise files that need copying.
whatever your skill level, acronis have done a fairly good job of  walking you through each step of each back-up process.
archives are created in manageable sizes, and the true image home 2012 processes can run happily in the background without hogging too much of your system's resources.
with prices starting at £699, it's also a very affordable entry into pre-built pc gaming.
dual-layer burner (dvd±rw) (standard) audio internal high-definition 7.1 performance audio with waves maxx audio software wireless integrated 802.11 a/b/g/n wi-fi wireless lan when you keep in mind that all components are of standard size, meaning they'll be easily upgradeable in the future
well, we'll be sure to find out next week, when the tech digest/ shiny shiny  teams touch down in las vegas for the big ces 2012 show.
outlook users in particular will benefit from email back-up, letting you quickly and effectively archive all inbox messages and contacts, saving invaluable stuff in the case of a disaster be you a business owner working from home or simply a person who'd simply die if they lost their email-archived holiday snaps.
file will be both a data file and a  "read me", and all you have to do is drop the data folder into the  directory where skyrim is installed and replace folders when prompted.
| akihabara news | born rich |
to many who have only ever had a pc in their life, sometimes working with apple's operating system can be quite a daunting task, everything is new and there aren't any of your usual applications for doing your day to day tasks.
try&decide was  our personal favourite tool, letting you road-test risky installations (say a  work-in-progress driver or a download from an untrusted source) and then revert  back quickly and simply to a prior state if you encounter any problems.
as comfortable next to a flatscreen tv as a monitor, it'll sit either horizontally or stand vertically.
the hero 9.1 is fairly cost effective too, working out at roughly 2.25p per  black and white sheet and 3.8p for colour prints, including paper costs.
wireless  home (164) world cup 2010 (25) world cup gadgets (10) wwdc 2010 (11) yahoo (3)
you can simply drag and drop files across operating systems without any file changing or reconfiguring.
today saw the long-awaited launch of the raspberry pi pc.
the restriction of access operates through a system of access privilege  levels.
"it is clear to us that consumers want their four screens: mobile devices, tablets, notebooks and smart tvs and they want them to work together seamlessly, anytime, anywhere," said yang yuanqing, chairman and ceo for lenovo.
happy 30th birthday, commodore 64!
usb 3.0 connectivity will mean you'll quickly be able to transfer files onto the 500gb hdd, while a webcam, card reader and hdmi port round off the feature list.
the average installation time takes between twenty and thirty minutes, which for installing an operating system is pretty impressive.
elsewhere, the machine also boasts beats audio, windows 7, 6 usb slots and  a multi-card reader, as well as the ability to tilt the screen 25 degrees.
the game is full of  rather large spiders wanting to get their fangs into you but how about  replacing them with something far less creepy and skin crawling, like bears?
so if you think that something  would suit the software you have a say and the company an consider developing  it.
optional: install msi afterburner msi's afterburner easy overclocking application enables all graphics cards  to boost their performance and is completely free.
"nvidia's engineering team has made incredible enhancements in 3d on pcs, creating a breathtaking gaming experience that's better than the best hollywood 3d movie."
while the size offers a larger viewing area than before, lightboost boasts 2x brighter 3d images than previous 3d solutions, and also improves colour reproduction.
some companies are being left behind, some are flying ahead on the wings ever-developing technology and others are beginning to understand that a diverse modern workforce can do an awful lot for themselves in terms of keeping their personal details up to date.
can its print speed and quality live up to the allure of its silky 4.3 inch touchscreen and cloud-printing capabilities?
powerful, slick, and often taking design inspiration from apple's own book of  tricks, the premium ultrabook sector looks to be where the portable computing  market is headed.
share dell ring the netbook death knell by gerald lynch on december 16,  2011 comments (1) the age of the netbook is well and truly over, and nothing rings the death  knell more loud and clear than when a massive pc manufacturer like dell  announces it's stepping out of the market sector.
what  were your fondest memories of the machine?
copying capabilities are just as impressive, delivering a black and white sheet  with great accuracy in just 17 seconds.
it's also the thinnest convertible ultrabook yet (of which there are admittedly few), measuring just 16.9mm deep and weighing 1.47kg.
"we are excited to be at build to show the windows ecosystem and how  we are working together towards commercialization of apps and hardware that  will run windows 8," said luis pineda, senior vice president of product  management, computing and consumer products at qualcomm.
it is so efficient that the older ways of authorising holiday leave cannot  be comprehended.
stockists rs components and premier farnell are now taking pre-orders for  the second batch of raspberry pi pcs.
experiment, but from a lot of forum opinions 80-85 seem to do the world  justice.
by gerald lynch on january 4, 2012 comments (1) happy 30th birthday, commodore 64!
the active shutter glasses, paired with an ir emitter that works alongside  compatible nvidia graphics cards, now feature 20% larger lenses that feature  the new lightboost technology.
this is what i have  been searching in many websites and i finally found it here.
for forward looking companies it is a progressive process and for organisations with paper based hr functions it has got to be something they must consider.
it's all highly configurable too, letting you set back-up schedules,  password protect resulting archives and (in the case of the online back-up  tools) set network bandwidth limits so that your uploads to the acronis servers  don't totally drain your internet speeds.
the acronis true image home 2012 suite aims to take the hassle out of  backing up your files, while also having enough flexibility to sate the  appetite of even the most avid pc tinkerer.
asus have revealed the u46 laptop, sporting the world's thinnest 14-inch screen panel at just 5.5mm thick.
the screen is full hd at 1920 by 1200 pixels, supporting ten-finger multitouch.
we'd expect to hear a  little bit more come ces in las vegas this coming january, so check back then  for all the news from the show floor.
designed by robert mullins and eben upton and distributed by the raspberry pi foundation, it's intended to inspire a new wave of uk coding enthusiasts in much the same way the bbc micro did long ago.
from: review: sony ps vita this is very impressive very good...
"following the introduction of our new strategy in q1 2012, we stop the product range in 10.1" (netbook) in q1 2012 for the benefit of ultraportables products (11.6 and 12-inches) and ultrabooks to be launched in 2012," reveals the email.
this enables hr employees to spend time on more on effective hr requirements and gives other employees more control of their personal details data.
the world is a very fast paced place and with the ever increasing need for all things to be done at speed, hr has had to move with the times.
colour print quality was mostly great, delivering really vibrant, rich colours that shone on photo paper.
the message, sent to a trade partner, states that 10.1 inch devices will be getting the chop, with samsung to re-focus their energies on the ultrabook sector.
step 2: turn off vsync for better frame rates vysnc is a tool to limit your fps to match the refresh rate of your  monitor, making sure that your monitor can handle the amount of frames it is  being given by the graphics card.
if you're not using windows 7 you will need a programme to  extract the files - inside the rar.
be sure to extend your page margins manually before printing duplex pages as a result, or you'll end up with considerable space around the edges of your prints.
though not class leading, the kodak hero's 9.1 print speed and quality remains solid.
4/5 incoming hp ceo will have a $1 salary by gerald lynch on september  30, 2011 comments (6)
share ces 2012 video:
share them via the comments section  below, ourtwitter feed or our facebook page, and we'll publish some of the best  in a tech digest post!
after removing a series of protective tags, inserting the print head and clicking in the two ink cartridges, it's just a matter of switching it on, installing the relevant drivers to your computer, and choosing whether to connect using a standard usb cable, or over wi-fi or ethernet.
a 10-sheet set of single sided black-and-white text documents  printed in two minutes and one second, while a twenty page set of single sided  documents sped up noticeably, taking three minutes and 47 seconds.
the average  installation time takes between twenty and thirty minutes, which for installing  an operating system is pretty impressive.
rather than focussing on one form of data back-up, the acronis true image  home 2012 suite offers the complete package.
it's connectivity options include hdmi 1.4,  4x usb 2.0 slots, 2x usb 3.0, ethernet and speaker connectors.
the app will give you full access to your computer, if it is in sleep mode the phone will access the server and wake the computer up for use.
the software allows you to run two or more operating systems at the same  time without the need to use bootcamp or rebooting your system to switch  between them, you can literally have them side by side.
it's all presented in such a way as to be make it comfortable to use for  even those who find the thought of back-up processed intimidating.
like ultrabook thin and powerful?
the rest, including home, back, help and preview keys, are touch  sensitive, illuminating when they can be used to navigate a corresponding  function on the gorgeous 4.3 inch touchscreen.
in review (13) 3d tv (196) 3gsm 2007 (62)  advertorial (21) android (314)
because you are working with a full version of office everything works how it should, there is no limitations to make it work on a mac.
netbooks have faced a stiff decline in popularity following the rise of the ever-more-powerful, ever-more-portable, ever-more-business-friendly tablet.
this enables hr employees to spend time  on more on effective hr requirements and gives other employees more control of  their personal details data.
it's a pity it doesn't come with a blu-ray  drive; the one thing stopping the mini-desktop from being a true living room  media hub.
there were a few isolated cases of banding (and dotting for those anally  examining their photos with a magnifying glass), but overall it was an  impressive show from the hero 9.1.
"it is a priority for qualcomm to work with the developer community to optimize the snapdragon and gobi-powered platform for windows 8 to provide an unparalleled mobile user experience.
stockists rs components and premier farnell are now taking pre-orders for the second batch of raspberry pi pcs.
only one physical button (the power one) sits on the hero 9.1's control panel.
whether you're using true image home 2012's nonstop back-up feature to keep your my documents folder safely duplicated as you pop new files inside, or using an acronis true image online account to synchronise local folders with a network or a laptop (which follows similar concepts to those that use the dropbox service), there's a solution for pretty much every situation.
it now looks as if razer are to make yet another step towards their ultimate goal of reviving pc gaming in the wake of console gaming dominance, posting a new teaser trailer for "project fiona", which will be fully revealed at ces 2012.
it's a relief not to have to swap paper load outs, and the powered photo tray also conveniently removes the need to manually push sheets.
self-service hr software does not in any way reduce the amount of control management has over the overall hr records - employees will only be provided access to relevant data input areas of the hr record, management can securely extract report data that may be required and can also input secure data themselves, restricting some data entry from employee access.
for example a member of staff could place a request for holiday leave at one level of the system and authorisation for the leave would occur at management level, accessed via management privilege.
using a large address aware patch will solve this,  allowing the game to make full use of your ram.
- for trees, change the line btreesreceiveshadows=0 to btreesreceiveshadows=1 - for objects out in the world, change the line bdrawlandshadows=0 to bdrawlandshadows=1 -save the .ini file, close and enjoy!
the likes of rob hubbard, david whittaker and martin galway were doing trailblazing stuff with game soundtracks using the machines sid chip, the influence of which can be heard in music by the likes of crystal castles.
prev  |next categories 2007
"it is a priority for qualcomm to work with the developer community to  optimize the snapdragon and gobi-powered platform for windows 8 to provide an  unparalleled mobile user experience.
settings to get the very best ultra graphics package.
thanks for sharing......
here's how to make it work: - before making any patches always backup your original exe just in case something goes wrong.
to sign up for more news on project fiona, head over to razer's dedicated  page.
samsung may be preparing to quit production of their netbook lines as soon as next year, according to a leaked email from the company.
steve jobs of apple also famously took just a dollar for his wage when he was 9-to-5 at apple.
due out in february in the uk, now pricing for our shores has yet been revealed.
the bulky brown home computing box of choice of the 1980's hits the three decade landmark this month, and is fondly remembered by many a tech fan (including this very tech digest writer) as their first experience with home computing.
to adjust the field of view, while in game press the '~' to bring up the console and enter 'fov xx'.
there's also enough smart features (like try and decide) to make even those with their own tried-and-tested back-up methods consider giving this a try.
under the hood it's boasting some pretty nifty specs, with an intel core i5  processor, 4gb of memory and an 128gb ssd.
again the  interface is clear, letting you easily pick source and destination locations,  and in the case of online and file back-up processes, offering check-box style  controls to select the precise files that need copying.
the main advantages of this software is  using full windows programs on your mac, microsoft office being one of the main  pieces that would be popular with users.
the single cartridge for all colours however is a disappointment; while it may ease the set-up process, it does mean you wont be able to eke the very last drops out of of each colour pool should one run dry.4/5 we all know that apple produce some of the most powerful laptops and desktops that need no configuration at all.
one for those who like to admire a kill is the enhanced blood textures which will improve the resolution of the blood textures in the game, and it one of the most noticeable of all the mods.
in other words, the 360-degree twisting 1600x900, 13.3 inch touch screen  can be positioned to work like a standard laptop with keyboard, folded flat  like a tablet with the screen facing outwards, stood up like an open book, or  hinged like a tent in the picture above.
so, were you the lucky owner of a commodore 64 back in the 1980s?
i'm now eating tesco's own-brand caviar, and have managed to cut down to just  four bottles of champagne a week.
copying capabilities are just as impressive, delivering a black and white sheet with great accuracy in just 17 seconds.
festive food, sexy  santas and...er...present tossers good and brief explanation on domain  name registry.
the 9.1  only manages single-side scanning however.
verdict: it's not the cheapest all-in-one on the market, nor the fastest,  but the kodak hero 9.1 does deliver solid print and scanning results, as well  as offering a premium feature set that you'll be hard pressed to  comprehensively find elsewhere.
7,200rpm hard drive optical 24x
of course, if you're familiar with the concepts of preserving your files, you can dive straight in with the backup and recovery" tab and picking from options like: "disk and partition", "online", "file", "email" and "nonstop backup".
via: engadget review: kodak hero 9.1 all-in-one printer/scanner/copier by gerald  lynch on november 21, 2011 comments (1) name: kodak hero 9.1 specs: click here for full specs price: £199.99 the kodak hero 9.1 throws into the mix pretty much every high-end  feature you can think of for a consumer all-in-one printer.
windows phone 7 apps (10)
it's not without its quirks, and the full suite of online support isn't the most competitively priced, but it comes strongly recommended nonetheless..4/5
by gerald lynch on  november 25, 2011 comments (5) samsung may be preparing to quit production of their netbook lines as soon  as next year, according to a leaked email from the company.
of course, if you're familiar with the concepts of preserving your files,  you can dive straight in with the backup and recovery" tab and picking  from options like: "disk and partition", "online",  "file", "email" and "nonstop backup".
therefore, at  present they... from: iphone 5 landing in the autumn?
after dell's inspirion mini line silently fell off the radar, the company  have since confirmed that they will no longer be producing the little  low-powered laptops.
os x mountain lion (1) pc  tips (15) pdas (211) peripherals (297) personal video players (269)
change shadow settings for trees and land objects read tech digest's the elder scrolls v: skyrim review by  clicking here
usb 3.0 connectivity will mean you'll quickly be able to transfer files  onto the 500gb hdd, while a webcam, card reader and hdmi port round off the  feature list.
4/5 parallels desktop 7 unleashing the power in apple
launching by the end of the month, the nvidia 3d vision 2 kit will be  available from all major pc retailers for $149, as well as nvidia's online  store.
check below for a quick youtube guide on how to use the program too, which  also shows a little about gpu z, a great tool for monitoring the temperature of  your system: read tech digest's the elder scrolls v: skyrim review by  clicking here share nvidia 3d vision 2 revealed: more comfort, better brightness by  gerald lynch on october 17, 2011 comments (3) nvidia have announced the release of their nvidia 3d vision 2 kit,  updating their 3d-for-pc hardware to allow for more comfortable glasses and
youtube video of the day (203) archives march 2012 february 2012 january 2012  december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011  june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december  2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010  may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009
mwc 2011 (43) mwc 2012 (13) namm 2007 (8) naughty toys (16) noise gate (15)  nokia world 2007 (15) nokia world 2010 (7) o'malley's mashup (4) online tv (111) only in japan (1) os x leopard (20) os x lion (6)
measuring just 12.5â³ deep and 13.5â³ wide, it's little bigger than an xbox 360 but massively more powerful.
by gerald lynch on october 10,  2011 comments (3) name: acronis true image home 2012 type: pc data back-up utility system requirements:
lenovo have at least removed that quandary from your trembling brain this week, by introducing the gigantic lenovo ideacenter a720 all-in-one pc.
under the hood it's boasting some pretty nifty specs, with an intel core i5 processor, 4gb of memory and an 128gb ssd.
try&decide was our personal favourite tool, letting you road-test risky installations (say a work-in-progress driver or a download from an untrusted source) and then revert back quickly and simply to a prior state if you encounter any problems.
we'd expect to hear a little bit more come ces in las vegas this coming january, so check back then for all the news from the show floor.
a printer is unlikely to win any style awards,  but kodak have made a strong effort here to make the hero 9.1 look tidy and  sleek.
the software is priced at around £65 for the standard edition, the  switch to my mac edition includes a usb cable in order to link together both  pc's to transfer all your data.
ultrabooks now offer a far more attractive proposition than netbooks.
the holiday request generates an e-mail alert to line management - once  authorised the employee receives an e-mail alert to indicate authorisation.
click the folder icon on the left hand side and browse your pc for tesv.exe.
because you are working with a full  version of office everything works how it should, there is no limitations to  make it work on a mac.
locate the folder which has the executable file you changed, delete the current .exe file, rename the backup executable back to the original name, and then you're ready again to update.
the company gets a lot of its new features from its users.
dell's xps 14z is the closest thing they've built recently to what could be  compared to a premium-feeling ultrabook, but would need to slim down even  further without compromising on power to really get consumers pulses racing and  offer a genuine challenge to apple's air range and the wave of ultrabooks on  the way from samsung and acer.
duplex  printing, as you'd expect, was noticeably slower, adding a good third onto the  time to print the same documents on a single side.
well, we'll be sure to find out next week, when the tech digest/ shiny shiny teams touch down in las vegas for the big ces 2012 show.
asus have revealed the u46 laptop,  sporting the world's thinnest 14-inch screen panel at just 5.5mm thick.
no word yet on a uk  launch.
trackpad gestures are supported in all  programs related to windows, a nice addition, you still feel like your working  with the quality of a mac computer.
lenovo get flexible with ideapad yoga windows 8 tablet/ultrabook  hybrid by gerald lynch on january 10, 2012 comments (0) lenovo are brinigng a little added flexibility to their latest batch  of ultrabooks with the ideapad yoga, a hybrid tablet/ultrabook machine running  windows 8.
the scanner lid has an automatic document  feeder, letting you scan multiple sheets in one go without having to replace  each one manually.
the apple software is also some of  the industry's finest, if you know how to use it that is.
back to the main folder and replace the edited .exe file.
the holiday record sheet, filling out the dates, sending the paperwork to hr, waiting for the form to be returned on and on and on.
plus sees the laptop perform well even in direct  sunlight, while the battery should stretch to 7 hours with moderate usage.
replacing every spider in the game with cuddly bears will help with any fears;  they just want a hug.
with recent massive launches like star wars: the old republic and skyrim, and upcoming launches likestarcraft ii: heart of the storm and diablo iii(as well as mad new concept designs likerazer's project fiona tablet), there's plenty of fun to be had and innovative hardware to gawk at.
- download and install cff explorer (which can be found athttp://ntcore.com/exsuite.php)
but it is all down to personal taste, or in this case personal view.
employees are provided with access to enable them to update their personal details or request leave for instance.
- run the cff explorer - click the folder icon on the left hand side and browse your pc for tesv.exe.
awards 2010 (6) bargain of the week (6) biotechnology (30)
"working closely with qualcomm allows us to maximize performance while  maintaining a high level of energy efficiency.
parallels have also launched an app for ios devices to access their virtual  machines from your mobile or tablet.
colour prints were considerably slower, but we were surprised at the snappy speed of photo prints.
we'd like to see dual-trays hit consumer printers as standard.
it now looks as if razer are to make yet another step towards their  ultimate goal of reviving pc gaming in the wake of console gaming dominance,  posting a new teaser trailer for "project fiona", which will be fully  revealed at ces 2012.
the pc peripheral makers have been making tentative steps into the realm of  gaming machines for a few years now, capturing the public eye with the boldly  designedswitchblade and razer blade machines.
step 2: turn off vsync for better frame rates vysnc is a tool to limit your fps to match the refresh rate of your monitor, making sure that your monitor can handle the amount of frames it is being given by the graphics card.
lenovo ideacenter a720 all-in-one hands-on by gerald  lynch on january 11, 2012 comments (1) giant tablet, or touchscreen pc?
outlook users in  particular will benefit from email back-up, letting you quickly and effectively  archive all inbox messages and contacts, saving invaluable stuff in the case of  a disaster be you a business owner working from home or simply a person who'd  simply die if they lost their email-archived holiday snaps.
cebit 2006 (13) cebit 2007 (27)
but even though you are working with windows software it doesn't mean the software ignores the apple features.
"thin and powerful is where it is at for us," dell's marketing  director alison gardner toldthe verge.
but if you're playing a game you're unlikely to be doing anything else all that intensive.
but using this tweak to change the shadowing effects on trees and other land objects will offer a noticeable improvement to the look of some of the large forest areas of the world map: - open the skyrimprefs.ini again, and again back it up.
featuring a lush, edge-to-edge 27 inch 1080p display, it packs all its innards, including a 2tb hard drive, hdmi input, blu-ray drive and quad-core intel processor, into its tabletop chassis.
the main idea behind this software if ease of use, it is about making the bridge between pc users going to mac a lot safer and secure.
" "collaborating with qualcomm to deliver windows 8-based pcs will help deliver a high-performance and differentiated experience for customers," added mike angiulo, corporate vice president of windows planning, hardware and pc ecosystem, microsoft.
with a 4.3 inch touchscreen, wi-fi and internet connectivity, duplex printing and cloud printing, it ticks every box when it comes to high-end printer features.
it's a relief not to  have to swap paper load outs, and the powered photo tray also conveniently  removes the need to manually push sheets.
the program had a few issues recognising a crucial solid-state drive we were testing with that hadn't been assigned a drive letter, but it's a problem that seemed unique to our set-up.
where it comes into its own however is its flexibility.
while the computer whiz-kids amongst us will already have  fool-proof methods for manually creating back-up copies of their valuable  files, true image home 2012 makes the whole process much simpler for newbies.
most pertinently, it's caught the attention of educators, with mp michael gove suggesting the device could have significant value for schools at a time when the uk education system is being criticised for its lack of computer science teaching.
hp are looking to wipe tech fans clean of an lingering touchpad and webos memories with the launch of the promising new hp omnia 27 all-in-one pc.
" expect to see the lenovo ideapad yoga starting at $1199 (around £775) when it lands sometime in the second half of the year.
contrary to the  near-indefatigable lay assumption that entertainment attorneys like myself hear  all the time, one is not required to... from: pottermore officially  revealed: jk rowling's harry potter social network excellent site, keep up  the good work my colleagues would love this.
and "what is  sync?".
the former ebay ceo, replacing leo apotheker, was brought in following apotheker's claims that hp were looking to sell off its hardware arm.
that low wage isn't to say whitman wont make a pretty penny from her new  post.
however, like a prison scene from arrested development, there's no touching allowed with the hp omnia 27, as that whopping display isn't touch-enabled.
employees are provided with access to enable them to update their personal  details or request leave for instance.
anyone looking to get into making chiptune music should definitely check  out the c64 too.
processor intel® coreâ¢ i3-2120 (3.30ghz, 3mb l3 cache, 2c) intel® coreâ¢ i5-2320 (3.00ghz, 6mb l3 cache, 4c) intel®
the video gives away very little, other than promising an  "all-new" form factor for pc gaming, as well as suggesting from the  clip that high-end games such asassassin's creed: revelations will be  playable on the device.
it allows for the playback of hd video, as well as having the ability to carry out day-to-day computing tasks such as word processing and spreadsheet management, and also play less intensive games.
i read a lot of blogs on a... from: flip-fighting ge dv1 hd mini camcorder launched
the build quality of the computers is second to none, im actually writing this on a four year old macbook which is still fully working and in great condition.
xx denotes the fov number you wish to enter.
cebit 2011 (10) celebrity gadgets (30) ces 2006 (57) ces 2007 (212) ces 2008  (219) ces 2008 (1) ces 2009 (70) ces 2010 (73) ces 2011 (51) ces 2011 (80) ces  2012 (53) christmas 2010 (11) christmas gift guides (17) christmas products (23) chromebook (4) columns & opinion (234) comparisons (8) competitions &  promotions (155) computer security (82) computers (2010) concept (5) concepts  (7) dab (206) daily tech hotlinks (45) daily tech roundup (2) digital music  (638) digital set-top boxes (99) digital summer 2008 (1) digital summer 2008 (6) diy (26) dtr (5) e-books (138) ebay (2) ebay goodies from bayraider (66) energy  & efficiency (48) energy systems (126) facebook (163) facebook applications  (77) features (545) figurines (5) flash game of the week (12) foursquare (2)  furnishings & furniture (80)
while the computer whiz-kids amongst us will already have fool-proof methods for manually creating back-up copies of their valuable files, true image home 2012 makes the whole process much simpler for newbies.
coreâ„¢ i3-2120 (3.30ghz, 3mb l3 cache, 2c) intel® coreâ„¢ i5-2320 (3.00ghz, 6mb l3 cache, 4c) intel®
remember the lenovo ideapad yoga hybrid ultrabook/tablet device we showed you yesterday?
hit the video above to see a lenovo spokesperson demo the device direct  from the ces 2012 show floor.
the age of the netbook is well and truly over, and nothing rings the death knell more loud and clear than when a massive pc manufacturer like dell announces it's stepping out of the market sector.
parallels have also launched an app for ios devices to access their virtual machines from your mobile or tablet.
there is no need to install any other software and the only information you need is your account information and that is it.
colour prints were considerably slower, but we were surprised at the snappy  speed of photo prints.
should one run out quicker than the rest, you're going to have to swap out all the colours and abandon any reserves they may have left.
if you're flushed with cash, the £199.99 kodak hero 9.1 is the premium offering from the company's all-in-one printer range.
the main advantages of this software is using full windows programs on your mac, microsoft office being one of the main pieces that would be popular with users.
but even though you are working with windows software it doesn't mean the  software ignores the apple features.
if you're not using windows 7 you will need a programme to extract the files - inside the rar.
the software allows you to run two or more operating systems at the same time without the need to use bootcamp or rebooting your system to switch between them, you can literally have them side by side.
lenovo are brinigng a little added flexibility to their latest batch of ultrabooks with the ideapad yoga, a hybrid tablet/ultrabook machine running windows 8.
whatever the motivation, the following guide will help you tweak your pc settings to get the very best ultra graphics package.
it is a big choice switching operating systems and the easier and shorter the process the better for the consumer at the end of the day.
gadget show live 2009 (11)
measuring just 12.5â€³ deep and 13.5â€³  wide, it's little bigger than an xbox 360 but massively more powerful.
colour print quality  was mostly great, delivering really vibrant, rich colours that shone on photo  paper.
it's connectivity options include hdmi 1.4, 4x usb 2.0 slots, 2x usb 3.0, ethernet and speaker connectors.
a printer is unlikely to win any style awards, but kodak have made a strong effort here to make the hero 9.1 look tidy and sleek.
"it is clear to us that consumers want their four screens: mobile  devices, tablets, notebooks and smart tvs and they want them to work together  seamlessly, anytime, anywhere," said yang yuanqing, chairman and ceo for  lenovo.
though not class leading, the kodak hero's 9.1 print speed and quality  remains solid.
this is software that, for anyone considering  the switch, would make the whole process that much simpler and a less stressful  experience and with free updates always being produced it is a worthwhile  investment.
there were a few isolated cases of banding (and dotting for those anally examining their photos with a magnifying glass), but overall it was an impressive show from the hero 9.1.
a helpful addition is the full integration of copy and paste, across platforms.
how does a self-service hr system operate when such things as a holiday request requires approval - quite simply the system utilises an e-mail alert system.
note that this change can potentially lead to excessive screen tearing.
so far only the asus vg278h 27-inch (1920x1080) monitor works with  lightboost, though acer and benq models are coming soon, promise nvidia.
what were your fondest memories of the machine?
increasing the field  of view will increase the angle from which you see the world, giving you a  wider perspective of your surrounding area and also seeing some more of your  characters hands and weapons.
spare pairs of nvidia 3d vision 2 glasses, without the ir emitter, will be priced at $99.
(2) movies (22) mp3  players (1588) music (15) musical instruments (36) mwc 2009 (14) mwc 2010 (27)
powered by an intel core processor backed by up to 8gb ram and a 256gb ssd,  the ideapad yoga is engineered around a four-point viewing mode principle.
step 5: install high-res blood textures and a "no  spiders" mod for arachnophobics for some pc gamers they want to make a game their own by installing mods.
acronis true image home 2012
a way that this has been implemented is with two hours worth of video tutorials built into the software with everything from installation to getting started with parallels.
be it online back-ups, file-based or continuous incremental back-ups of whole drives as they update, drive image creation or images of partitions, the software pops all methods into a single neat product.
chip makers qualcomm have confirmed that their next gen s4 mobile processors will support windows 8 pcs alongside tablets and smartphones when microsoft's new system launches.
in fact it looks pretty impressive.
those looking for very specific back-up tools will be pleased to discover true home image 2012's email back-up and try&decide tools.
download msi afterburner
her "compensation package" will offer plenty of room to earn  significant bonuses, as well as the opportunity to nab 1.9 million shares in hp  through the company's 2004 stock incentive plan.
justcheck this selection of tracks if you need convincing.
the term for such hr software is self-service hr.
for example a member of staff could place a request for holiday leave  at one level of the system and authorisation for the leave would occur at  management level, accessed via management privilege.
the overall benefits of a self-service hr function reduces the number of  errors that can occur in terms of change of address for example and more  importantly reduces dramatically the amount of paper work that can at times  swamp hr departments.
image via: stuart frost's world share samsung series 9 notebook uk release date set for this month
running windows 8, the 13.3 inch screen can be swivelled 360-degrees to  position it in a laptop format with keyboard, flat slate like shape, a stand  for watching video and, er, a tent as lenovo themselves like to describe it.
review: sony ps vita review:  samsung galaxy nexus review: prada phone by lg 3.0 (lg p940
elsewhere, the machine also boasts beats audio, windows 7, 6 usb slots and a multi-card reader, as well as the ability to tilt the screen 25 degrees.
if you want to be getting the most out of your upgraded card then download the program and toggle the settings in order to get the maximum potential from the card.
however, like a prison scene from arrested development, there's no touching  allowed with the hp omnia 27, as that whopping display isn't touch-enabled.
this is a  nice blog.
setting up the printer is as simple as it gets.
image via: stuart frost's world samsung have finally revealed the release date of their samsung series 9 laptop, with the super-slim machine hitting the uk by the end of february.
duplex printing on the whole  had some quirks, with the printer automatically reducing the print size by a  noticeable margin.
wired:gadget lab | ohgizmo!
by gerald lynch on  september 13, 2011 comments (3)
fast and efficient self-service hr software is now the way of the world for leading edge businesses.
(3) wi-fi (279) windows 7  (24) windows 8 (23)
as comfortable next to a flatscreen tv as a monitor, it'll sit either  horizontally or stand vertically.
in just 45 seconds we had a 4 x 6 inch holiday snap  sitting in our hands, ready to be tucked inside an album.
for every tree, rock and flower there is always a shadow to go with it in skyrim,that is, o course, unless you are a nocturnal adventurer.
you can choose from windows 7, chrome os, linux or even get the developers version of windows 8, all running on your macbook.
it's all highly configurable too, letting you set back-up schedules, password protect resulting archives and (in the case of the online back-up tools)
step 5: install high-res blood textures and a "no spiders" mod for arachnophobics for some pc gamers they want to make a game their own by installing mods.
) review: western  digital
still, the scanner has a solid  2400dpi optical resolution, delivering accurate colour and detail levels.
we'll look forward to getting our hands on one of these  when it launches on february 6th.
the  software allows you to run multiple operating systems on your macbook bringing  together the best hardware and software together.
spare pairs of nvidia 3d vision 2 glasses, without the ir emitter, will  be priced at $99.
android apps (103) apparel (144) apple (611)  apple wwdc 2007 (6)
boy genius report | mobile broadband | sky packages | coolest gadgets | core 77 | crunchgear | dvice | engadget | gearfuse | geekologie | gizmodo | hack a day | home av | lifehacker | mashable | sandals shoes | mobile shop | digital slr cameras | mobile phone deals | pocket gamer!
there is no need to install any other software and the  only information you need is your account information and that is it.
the video gives away very little, other than promising an "all-new" form factor for pc gaming, as well as suggesting from the clip that high-end games such asassassin's creed: revelations will be playable on the device.
, the x51 seems like a superb addition to the gamer's living room.
- download the file from skyrimnexus and they will be downloaded as a  rar.
whatever your skill level, acronis have done a fairly good job of walking you through each step of each back-up process.
you can choose from  windows 7, chrome os, linux or even get the developers version of windows 8,  all running on your macbook.
lenovo have at least removed that quandary from  your trembling brain this week, by introducing the gigantic lenovo ideacenter  a720 all-in-one pc.
with prices starting at £699, it's also a very affordable entry into  pre-built pc gaming.
costing  just under £22, the credit-card sized pc sold out just minutes after  going on sale earlier today.
coreâ„¢ i7-2600 (3.40ghz, 8mb l3 cache, 8c) graphics 1gb nvidia® geforce® gt 545 1gb nvidia® geforce® gtx  555 memory 4096mb (2x2gb) 1333mhz ddr3 dual channel 6144mb (1x4gb) (1x2gb)  1333mhz ddr3 dual channel 8192mb (2x4gb) 1333mhz ddr3 dual channel hard drive 1tb (32mb cache)
duplex printing on the whole had some quirks, with the printer automatically reducing the print size by a noticeable margin.
- click on file header on the left, find characteristics on the right and  click the "click here" button highlighted in blue.
share next-gen qualcomm snapdragon mobile chips to power windows 8 pcs as well  as tablets and smartphones
by greg collins on  november 18, 2011 comments (0) we all know that apple produce some of the most powerful laptops and  desktops that need no configuration at all.
share happy 30th birthday, commodore 64!
steve jobs of apple also famously took just a dollar for his wage when he was  9-to-5 at apple.
whether you're using true image home 2012's nonstop back-up feature to keep  your my documents folder safely duplicated as you pop new files inside, or  using an acronis true image online account to synchronise local folders with a  network or a laptop (which follows similar concepts to those that use the  dropbox service), there's a solution for pretty much every situation.
after dell's inspirion mini line silently fell off the radar, the company have since confirmed that they will no longer be producing the little low-powered laptops.
powerful, slick, and often taking design inspiration from apple's own book of tricks, the premium ultrabook sector looks to be where the portable computing market is headed.
it's a slightly lengthy process
"the smallest desktop alienware has ever created," according to the press release, it sits in an exciting position between the power of a high-spec gaming pc and the form factor of a games console.
the likes of rob hubbard, david whittaker and martin galway  were doing trailblazing stuff with game soundtracks using the machines sid  chip, the influence of which can be heard in music by the likes of crystal  castles.
should one run out quicker than the rest, you're going to have to  swap out all the colours and abandon any reserves they may have left.
using a large address aware patch will solve this, allowing the game to make full use of your ram.
| mobile phone reviews | film company london | rock, paper, shotgun | tech dirt | tech dosh | tech meme | testfreaks©2012 shiny digital privacy policy
netbooks have  faced a stiff decline in popularity following the rise of the  ever-more-powerful, ever-more-portable, ever-more-business-friendly tablet.
"gorgeous, bright, crystal-clear 3d worlds are created by nvidia's 3d  vision 2 glasses with 3d lightboost monitors and notebooks," said phil  eisler, general manager of 3d vision at nvidia.
- download and install cff explorer (which can  be found athttp://ntcore.com/exsuite.php)
voip (157) weaponry (21) web 2.0 (882)  websites (1126) weirdness (473) which tech are you?
i read your  blog story & seen was very good skills in your writing skills, i appreciate  to your story...
with recent massive launches like star wars: the old republic and skyrim, and upcoming launches  likestarcraft ii: heart of the storm and diablo iii(as
however, it's a fully-working arm-based pc, with a hmdi port, two usb ports, ethernet, audio output and an sd card slot.
skyrim has a great one for anyone with arachnophobia.
hp's new ceo meg whitman is feeling the monetary burn too; she's taken the post with just a base salary of $1.
"gorgeous, bright, crystal-clear 3d worlds are created by nvidia's 3d vision 2 glasses with 3d lightboost monitors and notebooks," said phil eisler, general manager of 3d vision at nvidia.
the acronis true image home 2012 suite aims to take the hassle out of backing up your files, while also having enough flexibility to sate the appetite of even the most avid pc tinkerer.
for many, the machine was also their first taste of the delights of gaming at home, stuffing cassette tapes into the c64 rather than stuffing their pocket money into the local arcade machines.
share alienware set pc gaming sights on the living room with mini x51 desktop by gerald lynch on january 18, 2012 comments (0) alienware have today announced the launch of the x51 mini gaming desktop.
if you have a high-end card you may want to  turn off vsync in order to get a better frame rate from your game.
for more info, click here.
the differing specification configurations available are as follows:
some are very simple such as changing blood to a green colour but some are a  bit more interesting and often down-right hilarious.
a helpful addition is the full integration of copy and paste, across  platforms.
locate the folder which has the executable file you changed, delete the  current .exe file, rename the backup executable back to the original name, and  then you're ready again to update.
still, the scanner has a solid 2400dpi optical resolution, delivering accurate colour and detail levels.
from: first microsoft kinect accessories revealed really good game onlive desktop app...
- click on file header on the left, find characteristics on the right and click the "click here" button highlighted in blue.
a re-vamped interface opens with a "get started", which offers tutorials on "how to back up?", "when to recover?"
like ultrabook thin and  powerful?
designed by robert mullins and eben upton and distributed by the raspberry  pi foundation, it's intended to inspire a new wave of uk coding enthusiasts in  much the same way the bbc micro did long ago.
requests can be made through a form built into the software so that the company can develop a tailored experience for the customers needs.
from: christmas apps part 2:
a great gift for fans of the original machine, it completely keeps the bulky build of the computer, but adds modern specifications like dual-core, 1.8ghz intel atom d525 chip, an nvidia ion 2 gpu, wi-fi and a blu-ray drive.
two paper trays feature, one each for 100 regular a4 sheets and another solely for 40 pieces of photo paper.
the screen is full hd at 1920 by 1200  pixels, supporting ten-finger multitouch.
"the smallest desktop alienware has ever created," according to the  press release, it sits in an exciting position between the power of a high-spec  gaming pc and the form factor of a games console.
requests can be  made through a form built into the software so that the company can develop a  tailored experience for the customers needs.
things worked out pretty well for them, wouldn't you say? via: all things digital sponsored post it is impossible for companies to continue to remain stuck in their old way of doing things, when it comes to human resources and personnel management.
powered by an intel core processor backed by up to 8gb ram and a 256gb ssd, the ideapad yoga is engineered around a four-point viewing mode principle.
, the x51 seems like a superb  addition to the gamer's living room.
from: review: sony ps vita
getting off the catwalk and into the tech-specs, the u46 has a sandy bridge intel core i5 processor, backed up by a nvidia geforce gt540m graphics chip, 1gb of gddr3 video memory and 4gb of ram.
in other words, the 360-degree twisting 1600x900, 13.3 inch touch screen can be positioned to work like a standard laptop with keyboard, folded flat like a tablet with the screen facing outwards, stood up like an open book, or hinged like a tent in the picture above.
optional: install msi afterburner msi's afterburner easy overclocking application enables all graphics cards to boost their performance and is completely free.
dominating the  1980s, the machine fell out of vogue by the 1990s as nintendo, sega and amiga  machines become increasingly popular, and by the middle of the decade commodore  had filed for bankruptcy.
the build quality of the computers  is second to none, im actually writing this on a four year old macbook which is  still fully working and in great condition.
"the ideapad yoga multi-mode notebook redefines the convergence and convertible user experience by bringing together the best of traditional pcs, with the best of tablets.
though getting off to a slow start after being revealed at the 1981 ces show,17 million units commodore 64 units went on to be sold.
day 2 round-up ces 2012: day 1 and pre-show round-up the best iphone apps to battle the uk's storms and gale force winds
check below for a quick youtube guide on how to use the program too, which also shows a little about gpu z, a great tool for monitoring the temperature of your system:read tech digest's the elder scrolls v: skyrim review by clicking here nvidia have announced the release of their nvidia 3d vision 2 kit, updating their 3d-for-pc hardware to allow for more comfortable glasses and boosting brightness levels for a more vibrant gaming experience.
there's also a small hinge on the scanner lid, letting you  more comfortable accommodate a book or magazine for scanning purposes.
the game is full of rather large spiders wanting to get their fangs into you but how about replacing them with something far less creepy and skin crawling, like bears?
day 2 round-up ces 2012: day 1 and pre-show round-up the best  iphone apps to battle the uk's storms and gale force winds app of the  day: football manager 2012 handheld (iphone/ ipad)
hit the video above to see a lenovo spokesperson demo the device direct from the ces 2012 show floor.
by  gerald lynch on february 22, 2012 comments (0) samsung have finally revealed the release date of their samsung series 9  laptop, with the super-slim machine hitting the uk by the end of february.
dominating the 1980s, the machine fell out of vogue by the 1990s as nintendo, sega and amiga machines become increasingly popular, and by the middle of the decade commodore had filed for bankruptcy.
a commodore 65 prototype was built, but never hit mass production.
file will be both a data file and a "read me", and all you have to do is drop the data folder into the directory where skyrim is installed and replace folders when prompted.