the perfect mac "dream machine" for cad the other item which came up in reader's minds was the technical  description of the "dream machine" for the mac compared to the pc  magazine version.
but he is assuming that this  pc magazine is using such a card.
to see this description see the previous article.
adding a similar card to a yosemite (if  there are any available for macs . . .) could easily take it over the $9,000  level.
this is obviously a big matter in any choice of machine.
one other correction is that the dvd video card is a daughter  card that plugs into the ati 128 rage card, leaving a pci slot free.
with mac os x being similar to unix, some of these  applications may be easier to port over to mac os x.
[anymore which is a real] pity."
add to that the lack of mp systems and weak support from  the likes of autodesk, maya, and avid, and macs look weak indeed.
the  rage128 isn't even in the same league.
the unfortunate real-world disadvantage to the mac platform is that over the past several years a number of high end software developers have been abandoning their efforts for the mac, most probably as a result of it being too thin a market to make their efforts pay off.
for example, the authors of pro-engineer, solidworks, microstation/j, and  especially the parasolid kernel.
the number one thing to do is to not write apple about it (cc them, of course toleadership@apple.com) but instead write directly to the software company and tell them you want a macintosh version of their software!
where do we stand on the "ultimate cad dream machine" for mac users?
how  about mac?"you don't have to convince me.
i do electronics design, and the pc choices far outclass the two mac packages that exist (one of which, i use).
part of the reason for the creation of the architosh website is to  evangelize and inform macintosh users everywhere that the macintosh is a viable  platform for cad professionals, especially architects, engineers and  construction professionals.
do they somehow piggyback or connect in series to run one monitor with the two cards giving you twice the video power for the one monitor?
i am a big mac supporter, but  come on, you have to at least address this in your article."
but it will take some time.
the unfortunate real-world disadvantage to the mac platform is that over  the past several years a number of high end software developers have been  abandoning their efforts for the mac, most probably as a result of it being too  thin a market to make their efforts pay off.
in general adding an additional graphics card only allows you a second monitor capacity -- though it is possible to get this capacity with one graphics card in the pc space.
my company uses it, as do our most important customers [lockheed martin, u.s. army].
this discussion also talks about the usefulness of more graphics ram, as we were told by formac engineers.
we  know this is a lot, this is a "dream machine" exercise only and many  of the descriptions and choices we made could be scaled back to create the  ultimate machine of your liking.
we are not sure if such card arrangements even exist.
our feelings exactly!
how about mac? " provoked quite a bit reader feedback.
search: books popular music classical music video enter keywords...
the rage128 isn't even in the same league.
we know this is a lot, this is a "dream machine" exercise only and many of the descriptions and choices we made could be scaled back to create the ultimate machine of your liking.
for more information about the proformance 3 card from formac read our expo  report: part - 2.
with more and more sales growth, unit growth and software developer faith and encouragement in apple, we can have our cake and eat it too -- someday.
one other correction is that the dvd video card is a daughter card that plugs into the ati 128 rage card, leaving a pci slot free.
this excludes macintosh from the equation, because neither pro-engineer, nor  the parasolid kernel, nor microstation/j, nor solidworks is compatible."
he didn't say that the  formac proformance chip is as a fast as a oxygen card with 96 mb of memory  because that isn't probably possible.
if this is your situation,  start letting those developers know that you want a mac os x version now.
two slow graphics cards are  still slow.
another reader added this to the comments: "hello, you recently posted an article about pc magazine's "dream cad  machine" and attempted to build an equivalent mac.
-reader without sounding too defensive, software was left out of the equation (and  the price) in theprevious article not because there are so few choices in the  macintosh market -- because that isnot true -- but because the article was  really about the machine itself, the hardware.
in general adding an additional graphics card  only allows you a second monitor capacity -- though it is possible to get this  capacity with one graphics card in the pc space.
it doesn't support macintosh either" "for example, my company has tasked me with the objective of placing a highly integrated sw system on up to 5,000 desktops within the next 5 years.
-reader "just read your article "what is the perfect pc for cad ..
the article is an interesting exercise, but i think the conclusions are  wrong in this case.
he didn't say that the formac proformance chip is as a fast as a oxygen card with 96 mb of memory because that isn't probably possible.
they said that the market for such cards is probably too small but things could change.
these cards can easily top $2000.
my business depends on the following applications, all of which have ceased  being developed for the mac (for the foreseeable future at any rate).
add to that the lack of mp systems and weak support from the likes of autodesk, maya, and avid, and macs look weak indeed.
perfect pc for cad...how about mac?
many readers simply said that sure the macintosh has great hardware specs  and is easy to use and maintain but there simply isn't enough software for it  (in the cad space that is).
as some readers put it: " hi... sure, the mac has great specs, but there's so few  mac sw packages for cad!
otherwise, that's exactly the system i'm putting  together for my new cad system."
closing comments much of what we said in the first article still stands, with corrections  being in order.
"the problem is that many of the really good cad programs do not run on the mac
adding a similar card to a yosemite (if there are any available for macs . . .)
as much as i  hate nt, apple cannot compete with it in the high-end without better products  in hardware (mp g4s w/ slots) and software (os x consumer & third-party  support).
with more and more sales growth, unit growth and software developer  faith and encouragement in apple, we can have our cake and eat it too --  someday.
this is  obviously a big matter in any choice of machine.
this reader is also correct about the fact that an ati rage 128 bit graphics card is not even in the same league as aoxygen card from 3dlabs (see our expo report on formac's permedia 3-based card)
perhaps we  can have the gigabit ethernet after all?
we said adding an additional card, which doesn't really do  anything for processing power at all, unless the two cards worked in  conjunction somehow.
the high-end glint card has 96mb of ram and uses it all, rendering complex, high-res 3d images far faster than any mainstream cpu can.
in terms of hardware we need multiprocessing g4's, altivec-enabled cad and 3d applications and a company like formac to create an industrial-strength 60 mb plus graphics card based on the glint graphics chipset or something better.
as far as i know, autocad, the pc cad standard, still sells for around 3 grand per seat...
help support architosh by shopping at amazon.com thanks!
- autocad  stopped at r-12 (now up to r-2000 for pc) - microstation stopped at se (now up  to ms-j for pc) -
a formac engineer told us that this is not likely, though  it is theoretically possible.
don't  wait until os x comes out.
things can change and if you are interested in such cards with up to 96 mb of graphics ram then write to formac and ati and ask them about it.
we said adding an additional card, which doesn't really do anything for processing power at all, unless the two cards worked in conjunction somehow.
in fact, the number of hits we received on the piece exceeded our previous best with our article on theautocad 2000 coming to mac os x rumor.
the article encapsulates reader feedback and criticism and includes new information and responses to reader feedback.
the mac os provides a far superior user experience, and mac hardware definitely  kicks butt.
this reader is also correct about the fact that an ati rage 128 bit  graphics card is not even in the same league as aoxygen card from 3dlabs (see  our expo report on formac's permedia 3-based card)
do they somehow piggyback or connect in series to run one  monitor with the two cards giving you twice the video power for the one  monitor?
we also do need some critical applications that are currently missing  in the macintosh space.
the pc card you are comparing the mac to is most likely one of the oxygen cards from 3dlabs, based on a glint-family chipset.
vectorworks and denebacad, both of which work better on macs, start around 700 bucks...and the price differential grows as you add more seats..." - reader "the real-world disadvantage to the mac is not hardware based, nor is it os based.
unfortunately, your response fell short in one simple but incredibly important respect.
the architosh article entitled "the perfect pc for cad...
things can change and if you are interested in  such cards with up to 96 mb of graphics ram then write to formac and ati and  ask them about it.
member  of the ad club network contact us copyrighted 1998 britasmedia publications.
i am a ten-year mac loyalist!
no doubt, what good is a  machine, no matter how bitchen fast and cool if the machine can't run those  awesome cad and 3d applications you wish to work in?
no doubt, what good is a machine, no matter how bitchen fast and cool if the machine can't run those awesome cad and 3d applications you wish to work in?
as much as i hate nt, apple cannot compete with it in the high-end without better products in hardware (mp g4s w/ slots) and software (os x consumer & third-party support).
with mac os x being similar to unix, some of these applications may be easier to port over to mac os x.
we're going in the right direction, but mac users will discredit the  platform if we pretend to be what we aren't right now."
some the of the comments we received concerned the graphics systems on both the pc and macintosh system, compared: "how do two graphics cards help to do anything other than run two monitors?
however, a formac  engineer told us that the permedia chipset uses a glint core in its silicon and  has similar performance functionality at some levels.
all rights reserved .
clearly the mac is the best choice for most users on both fronts.
the  "equivalent" mac opengl card you listed was a rage128-based 32mb pci  card, which you admitted had less memory than the one on the "dream  machine."
such a card would have to be a daughter card on the main graphics card  to add additional graphics ram.
ditto for parasolid, which many believe to be the emerging international standard for 3d cad.
adding an additional graphics card and adding more graphic ram  do different things.
on the other hand, what we learned is that the 32 mb ati rage nexus card is not the fastest card you can add to your macintosh.
the high-end glint  card has 96mb of ram and uses it all, rendering complex, high-res 3d images far  faster than any mainstream cpu can.
as some readers put it: " hi... sure, the mac has great specs, but there's so few mac sw packages for cad!
microstation modeler stopped at 95 (up to ms modeler pe for  pc)"
we think this is probably the case too.
they said that the market for such cards is probably too small  but things could change.
part of the reason for the creation of the architosh website is to evangelize and inform macintosh users everywhere that the macintosh is a viable platform for cad professionals, especially architects, engineers and construction professionals.
if this is your situation, start letting those developers know that you want a mac os x version now.
another reader added this to the comments: "hello, you recently posted an article about pc magazine's "dream cad machine" and attempted to build an equivalent mac.
"the problem is that many of the really good cad programs do not run  on the mac
this reader is absolutely right.
formac, a german company who has been a longtime supporter of apple and the macintosh has come out with their latest128-bit proformance 3 graphics card and the claim is that it is up to twice as fast as the ati rage cards (to see comparisons click here).
courtesy of apple computer inc. some the of the comments we received concerned the graphics systems on both  the pc and macintosh system, compared: "how do two graphics cards help to do anything other than  run two monitors?
ditto for parasolid,  which many believe to be the emerging international standard for 3d cad.
it is currently something of a standard in aerospace.
my company uses it, as do our most  important customers [lockheed martin, u.s. army].
but yes, it is  true that there are some serious deficits in the software spectrum for both  architecture and engineering.
two slow graphics cards are still slow.
on the other hand, what we learned is that the 32 mb ati rage nexus card is  not the fastest card you can add to your macintosh.
let's try to solve that problem together by continuing to believe in the platform by purchasing more macs and macintosh software.
my business depends on the following applications, all of which have ceased being developed for the mac (for the foreseeable future at any rate).
member of the adclub network architosh news reports perfect pc for cad...how about mac?
architosh is a trademark of the britasmedia company a britasmedia  designed web site for advertising on this site click here.
but yes, it is true that there are some serious deficits in the software spectrum for both architecture and engineering.
don't wait until os x comes out.
vectorworks and denebacad, both of which work better on macs, start  around 700 bucks...and the price differential grows as you add more  seats..." - reader "the real-world disadvantage to the mac is not hardware based, nor is  it os based.
after discovering that formac is basing their mac graphics cards on 3dlabs' technologies one might wonder if they ever plan on bringing a super-fast, high-memory graphics card to the macintosh similar to the industrial strength oxygen cards.
it's the software dumbo!
this excludes macintosh from the equation, because neither pro-engineer, nor the parasolid kernel, nor microstation/j, nor solidworks is compatible." - reader " one point you left out in your short discussion: the software.
pro-engineer runs on sgi  irix, sun solaris, and windows nt.
the architosh article entitled "the perfect pc for cad...how about mac? " provoked quite a bit reader feedback.
unfortunately, your  response fell short in one simple but incredibly important respect.
as  far as i know, autocad, the pc cad standard, still sells for around 3 grand per  seat...
what we did was build a system from the choices in the apple store and then say, "what can we do to make it better?" the target price to compare with the pc magazine system was $9000.00 us.
could easily take it over the $9,000 level.
the article is an interesting exercise, but i think the conclusions are wrong in this case.
what we did was build a  system from the choices in the apple store and then say, "what can we do  to make it better?" the target price to compare with the pc magazine system was $9000.00 us.
for example, the authors of pro-engineer, solidworks, microstation/j, and especially the parasolid kernel.
formac, a german company who  has been a longtime supporter of apple and the macintosh has come out with  their latest128-bit proformance 3 graphics card and the claim is that it is up  to twice as fast as the ati rage cards (to see comparisons click here).
closing comments much of what we said in the first article still stands, with corrections being in order.
we asked a formac engineer at expo if you could add additional ram to a card by adding a card and he said not their cards.
however, a formac engineer told us that the permedia chipset uses a glint core in its silicon and has similar performance functionality at some levels.
the article encapsulates reader feedback and  criticism and includes new information and responses to reader feedback.
- autocad stopped at r-12 (now up to r-2000 for pc) - microstation stopped at se (now up to ms-j for pc) - microstation modeler stopped at 95 (up to ms modeler pe for pc)" -reader
otherwise, that's exactly the system i'm putting together for my new cad system."
you need to convince the industry leaders for high-end cad.
the perfect mac "dream machine" for cad the other item which came up in reader's minds was the technical description of the "dream machine" for the mac compared to the pc magazine version.
you suggested adding another card to double the ram.
unfortunately, graphics ram is not cumulative.
we asked a formac engineer at expo if you  could add additional ram to a card by adding a card and he said not their  cards.
in fact, the number of hits we  received on the piece exceeded our previous best with our article on theautocad  2000 coming to mac os x rumor.
part 2perfect pc for cad...how about mac?
one point you left out in your short discussion: the software.
the card is based on a 3dlabs permedia 3 graphics chipset (which is not as powerful as the glint chipset used in the 3dlabs' oxygen cards).
main | | mac os x  | powerpc  | architects  | opinion  | please visit our sponsor today, click the banner below!
feedback back to architosh news | pro mac | cadd | applications | news | bookstore | forum |
where do we stand on the "ultimate cad dream machine" for mac  users?
for more information about the proformance 3 card from formac read our expo report: part - 2.
without sounding too defensive, software was left out of the equation (and the price) in theprevious article not because there are so few choices in the macintosh market -- because that isnot true -- but because the article was really about the machine itself, the hardware.
how about mac?"you don't have to convince me.
after discovering that formac is basing their mac graphics cards on 3dlabs'  technologies one might wonder if they ever plan on bringing a super-fast,  high-memory graphics card to the macintosh similar to the industrial strength  oxygen cards.
the entire sw system has to be built around a single cad product or system.
the  card is based on a 3dlabs permedia 3 graphics chipset (which is not as powerful  as the glint chipset used in the 3dlabs' oxygen cards).
it is currently  something of a standard in aerospace.
we also do need some critical applications that are currently missing in the macintosh space.
the pc card you are comparing the mac to is most likely one of the  oxygen cards from 3dlabs, based on a glint-family chipset.
we're going in the right direction, but mac users will discredit the platform if we pretend to be what we aren't right now."
but he is assuming that this pc magazine is using such a card.
let's try to solve that problem together by  continuing to believe in the platform by purchasing more macs and macintosh  software.
i do electronics design, and the pc choices far  outclass the two mac packages that exist (one of which, i use).
pro-engineer runs on sgi irix, sun solaris, and windows nt.
it  doesn't support macintosh either" "for example, my company has tasked me with the objective of placing a  highly integrated sw system on up to 5,000 desktops within the next 5 years.
adding an additional graphics card and adding more graphic ram do different things.
a formac engineer told us that this is not likely, though it is theoretically possible.
we are not sure if such card arrangements even  exist.
that's why we have asoftware list.
let's consider pro-engineer.
in terms of hardware we need multiprocessing g4's, altivec-enabled cad  and 3d applications and a company like formac to create an industrial-strength  60 mb plus graphics card based on the glint graphics chipset or something  better.
this discussion also talks about the usefulness of more  graphics ram, as we were told by formac engineers.
such a card would have to be a daughter card on the main graphics card to add additional graphics ram.
many readers simply said that sure the macintosh has great hardware specs and is easy to use and maintain but there simply isn't enough software for it (in the cad space that is).
the number one thing to do is to not write  apple about it (cc them, of course toleadership@apple.com) but instead write  directly to the software company and tell them you want a macintosh version of  their software!
the mac os provides a far superior user experience, and mac hardware definitely kicks butt.
perhaps we can have the gigabit ethernet after all?
i am a big mac supporter, but come on, you have to at least address this in your article."
the "equivalent" mac opengl card you listed was a rage128-based 32mb pci card, which you admitted had less memory than the one on the "dream machine."