you can install windows on a mac to run the occasional windows application you just can’t live without.
you can start using these devices from the  moment you plug them in.
it’s compatible try a mac.
other pc files work too, like photos, mp3s, zip files, and more.
when you buy a computer, you want it to last.
you can install windows on a mac to run the occasional  windows application you just can’t live without.
learn more almost any device that connects via usb, audio cable, or bluetooth wireless technology will work with a mac.
learn more fast intel processors are standard on every mac, so applications fly.
that’s because a mac is designed to be as reliable and powerful as it is beautiful.
learn more with a pc, getting help can be a frustrating game of who-to-call.
with a pc, getting help can be a frustrating game of who-to-call.
a mac isn’t susceptible to the thousands of viruses plaguing  windows-based computers.
a new pc is overloaded with all sorts of applications.
learn more it comes with software you’ll love to use.
it’s designed to be a better computer.
wi-fi gives you fast wireless connectivity.
wi-fi gives  you fast wireless connectivity.
that’s easy to learn and a pleasure to use.
that’s thanks to built-in defenses in os x lion that keep you safe, without any work on your part.
most of which you don’t want or need.
learn more if you need to run an application that isn’t available for the mac, don’t worry.
why get a new pc and just upgrade your computer, when you can get  a mac and upgrade your entire computer experience?learn why you’ll  love a mac
learn more get office for mac, and you can run word, excel, and powerpoint.
copyright © 2012 apple inc.
powerful graphics bring the latest 3d games to life.
compare mac models get answers to all your questions about making the move to mac.
learn more it comes with the world’s most advanced os.
it’s compatible with your stuff.
get office for mac, and you can run word, excel, and powerpoint.
a mac, on the other hand, comes with great software that’s easy to learn and a pleasure to use.
almost any device that connects via usb, audio cable, or bluetooth wireless  technology will work with a mac.
learn more a mac isn’t susceptible to the thousands of viruses plaguing windows-based computers.
simply visit an apple retail store or make one call to applecare  whenever you have questions.
simply visit an apple retail store or make one call to applecare whenever you have questions.
you can start using these devices from the moment you plug them in.
that’s thanks to built-in defenses in os x lion  that keep you safe, without any work on your part.
that’s os x lion, and it’s what makes a mac a mac.
learn more it’s loaded with the latest technology.
if you need to run an application that isn’t available for the mac,  don’t worry.
that’s os x lion, and  it’s what makes a mac a mac.
learn more shop the apple online store (1-800-my-apple), visit an apple retail store, or find areseller.
transfer them to your new mac and use them right away.
most of which you  don’t want or need.
other pc files work too, like photos, mp3s,  zip files, and more.
learn more get a closer look at every mac to find the one that’s perfect for you.
files open perfectly on a pc (and vice versa).
fast intel processors are standard on every mac, so applications fly.
that’s  because a mac is designed to be as reliable and powerful as it is beautiful.
learn more it doesn’t get pc viruses.
a mac, on the other hand, comes with great software
files open  perfectly on a pc (and vice versa).
simple and intuitive, yet incredibly powerful.
learn more it runs office and works with your existing pc files.
learn more it runs windows and windows applications.
why get a new pc and just upgrade your computer, when you can get a mac and upgrade your entire computer experience?learn why you’ll love a mac when you buy a computer, you want it to last.
learn more it comes with award-winning support.
learn more a new pc is overloaded with all sorts of applications.
learn more simple and intuitive, yet incredibly powerful.