[login to  hide note!]
spinelli - ed - audiohead - julian angel - giechi dan productions - mike_s -  bill - jonnylightning - illusive mind - dansthetsar - ingridtornado - geomatic - almighty pattern - m1ch431 - dammedifiknow - turk - deletedtrack - heegs -  marcoast beats. - pinepoint - disposition - doomydoom - nycebeatz - multiengine  -deanomuz - hosea taylor - light3000 - mike huntingford - joon yang - contrails  over boston copyright © 2005-2011 maketunes all rights reserved.
spinelli - ed - audiohead - julian angel - giechi dan productions - mike_s - bill - jonnylightning - illusive mind - dansthetsar - ingridtornado - geomatic - almighty pattern - m1ch431 - dammedifiknow - turk - deletedtrack - heegs -
3 hours 4 min ago what the mind can conceive, 3 hours 13 min ago what the mind can conceive, 3 hours 20 min ago knock, knock!
mike s the only music program i ever used on a mac is ableton , which was awesome , the beats i made were phenomenal , but beyond that i have only used fldemo on a mac which was great too , and macs are just better for video and audio , i say you are headed in the right direction with a mac here's a couple of tracks i made on ableton , nice and crisp , and this was without mastering or mixing down http://www.maketunes.com/audio/crickets http://www.maketunes.com/audio/stop-theif he who is , who he is he that is called i am google me if you go mac you gotta go logic...fl studio takes a very far back seat
it's whatever your comfortable with in making music.
they seem clearer and less complicated to use to me.
i 21 hours 3 min ago hmmm...
9 july, 2011 - 05:24 —  screamingzombie i dunno about macs, but i use a pc with win7 and 64bit system, and its  awesome for music production :)
i've been a pc user all my life, but i'm coming up to needing a new computer, and i'm hearing more and more people say go mac for music production.
xd at my school, we have macs.
zero tolerance of abusive language towards others 200mb samples free!
follow  maketunes on twitter about jesse ratterree
i'm probably moving to fl studio 10 and want to know how other's experiences have been with music done on macs?‹
terms | privacy policy | report copyright content tweet tweet?
i'm a little leary, but i'm sick of windows crap and waiting so long for my  computer to boot when i only have a little time to dabble.
› home studio login or register to post comments 10 june, 2011 - 08:21  —teddy brazello from what i hear using a macs much more resource friendly when it comes to  music production.. thats all i know..
music on macs 10 june, 2011 - 06:36 — jesse ratterree i've been a pc user all my life, but i'm coming up to needing a new  computer, and i'm hearing more and more people say go mac for music production.
you can also upload your original music, home studio photos, and post your own forum topics and blogs.
i'm probably moving  to fl studio 10 and want to know how other's experiences have been with music  done on macs?
what are you using for bass?
i have used macs all my life
i hear every mac comes with a music creating  program called garage band.
hello guest - register or log-in now, to download the tunes, add your comments, ask questions or share  advice with our home musicians community.
competitions forum hello guest - register or log-in now, to download the tunes, add your comments, ask questions or share advice with our home musicians community.
i'm sure it is very  simple to some pc users though.
it's a personal choice.
but, if you don't want this existing program that's in the mac, i would go for logic or pro tools.
screaming zombie check out my music hello guest - register or log-in now, to download the tunes, add your comments, ask questions or share  advice with our home musicians community.
jewunit97 if you go mac you gotta go logic...fl studio takes a very far back seat 11 june, 2011 - 14:34 — adam purski it's a personal choice.
11 june, 2011 - 14:42 —  adam purski lol, but since your getting problems with windows, go for mac then.
‹ how to build bass traps and acoustic panels
mike_s i have used macs all my life
copyright © 2005-2011 maketunes all rights reserved.
haha i loved 19 hours 59 min ago nah, he couldn't pull it off 20 hours 3 min ago i realize, after listening 20 hours 10 min ago thank you, thank you.
producing music was very easy, just plug in and go, whereas i know someone who makes music on a pc and it seemed like a massive ordeal to get started, with software, compatability, speakers, sound cards, etc.
the layout of the whole application is decent.
screaming zombie check out my music hello guest - register or log-in now, to download the tunes, add your comments, ask questions or share advice with our home musicians community.
check out their music to thank them for helping our community grow!
i played around with the loops on it and it was fun.
good 21 hours 7 min ago hahaha!
marcoast beats. - pinepoint - disposition - doomydoom - nycebeatz - multiengine -deanomuz - hosea taylor - light3000 - mike huntingford - joon yang - contrails over boston name or nickname raj
subwoofer in the near field?
how to build bass traps and acoustic panels subwoofer in the near field?
mike s 11 june, 2011 - 02:48 — vodkamartinez the only music program i ever used on a mac is ableton , which was awesome  , the beats i made were phenomenal , but beyond that i have only used fldemo on  a mac which was great too , and macs are just better for video and audio , i  say you are headed in the right direction with a mac here's a couple of tracks i made on ableton , nice and crisp , and this was  without mastering or mixing down http://www.maketunes.com/audio/crickets he who is , who he is he that is called
producing music was very easy, just plug in and go, whereas i know someone  who makes music on a pc and it seemed like a massive ordeal to get started,  with software, compatability, speakers, sound cards, etc.
it's whatever  your comfortable with in making music.
i haven't had the chance to produce with  a mac yet 10 june, 2011 - 19:54 —
i am google me 11 june, 2011 - 08:39 —
i hear every mac comes with a music creating program called garage band.
you can also upload your original  music, home studio photos, and post your own forum topics and blogs.
i played around with the loops on it and
i haven't had the chance to produce with a mac yet
and i still don't really know the exact  reason, but i much prefer to use them.
[login to hide note!]
man, thanks for 21 hours 9 min ago i hear you on the vox, man; 21 hours 10 min ago home  ›forums › music production › home studio join our home musicians community now!
i'm a little leary, but i'm sick of windows crap and waiting so long for my computer to boot when i only have a little time to dabble.
but, if you don't  want this existing program that's in the mac, i would go for logic or pro  tools.
lol, but since your getting problems with windows, go for mac then.
i'm sure it is very simple to some pc users though.
and i still don't really know the exact reason, but i much prefer to use them.
› from what i hear using a macs much more resource friendly when it comes to music production.. thats all i know..
i dunno about macs, but i use a pc with win7 and 64bit system, and its awesome for music production :)
donations made to maketunes by the following members...