i don't regret getting a mac no matter how incompatible it is with programs like microsoft office–unless you're a student like me or run a business–compatibility might not be a problem for you.
year back july since switched from pc to my imac desktop computer and will never go back to the pc for using on the internet ever ever ever.
which are supposed to be impossible to crash.
my computers have never had a virus.
i just upgraded this fall to a macbook pro running snow leopard, and i love it.
i've had a lot of problems although i do like herbie and hope he ends up getting fixed.
so i bought a new one and got a free itouch and $100 printer credit.
i would say a pc… macs are more expensive, and they are so proprietary that pretty much have to take it to apple to get it fixed.
and i'm extremely happy with it.
also, my mac is way more lightweight than my old dell was, so it's a lot easier to travel with.
i can't recommend mac's enough.
i have always been a mac person they are so much better and easier to use.
like i was using dos to open up my floppy disc video games when i was 4.
this way you will be able to see/edit say word docs people have sent you.
as others have mentioned, if anything happens to it, you will have to send it to apple care, but if you have a back up computer, it shouldn't be too much of an inconvenience.
plus, the start up time is great.
you should go with the mac!
but seriously, you need to get a mac.
when i had a pc i had a lot more problems with viruses, spyware, etc.
what a generous and thoughtful gift!
you won't be forced to shop from the mac store and pay their prices.
i have not had 1 virus, not had 1 time where the computer has crashed and have tons of fun with the software already loaded on the mac and there is so much more out there for different applications that cab be bought or downloaded.
but if you go pc- not a dell.
i am a pc girl, it is what i no
i usually have to wait a long time to start up my pc definitely mac!!
a mac is a mac, but a pc can be any brand – which means if you need to upgrade, change something, etc.
looks like i'm the lone pc voice…i just bought a lenovo laptop a few months ago, and i absolutely love it.
i bought my desk top that i still currently use in 2005… and  honestly it works fine, considering all the crap it’s been through, so  i’ll probably keep it along with my laptop.
my bf has a mac, and i hate it.
they aren't a huge chain so that might be a problem for you.
it's cheap (less than $600–you won't find a mac for that!), fast, and does everything i need it to do.
otherwise, you can get everything you need from a decent pc for a hell of a lot less cash.
that allows you to call in apple anytime without being charged.
i have used a macbook pro since 2007 and i love it!
it's a really hard choice – i love my pc, even though it is constantly getting annoying viruses.
mac's are supposed to be safer, but take a bit of time to learn how to use.
so now i just stay away.
plus, if you have any questions you can always ask me.
i've had a pc for years.
in the commercial i like the mac.
pcs, though, are more user-friendly, i think.
there are wonderful applications for the mac too.
maybe there is something similar where you are.
i want something portable, long battery, but still relatively powerful and a mac ticks all those boxes.
december 9th, 2009 | tags:
i usually have to wait a long time to start up my pc enter your email address: delivered by feedburner copyright © 2012
it's so useful and it doesn't crash.
and i have to say that i love my macbook!!
i never thought i would be a mac person because we had macs at school and they were always causing problems.
they have like a handful of viruses where pc's have hundreds of thousands.
i don't recommend dell or hp or any of those.
all three of the macs that i own are still running and are used by my parents.
but i’m wondering… should i get a pc.. or take the mac road?
we have macs at school and i don't like them at all.
sounds like he's a keeper (as they say in maine.)
no matter what you decide, enjoy picking out your new computer.
but i’m  wondering… should i get a pc.. or take the mac road?
they are more expensive, but they hold their value.
it did not take long before i realized that used macs were going for prices very comparable to new ones.
however the mac's are more expensive to buy apps and software for but think in the long run they last longer and can be adapted to a wireless mouse and keyboard just like a pc and all the other whistles and bells that you want.
and it's really good to have because if you don't know how to do something or whatnot you can call them and they'll fix it for you in a couple of minutes.
but there's great alternatives.
i work on macs all day long and have both a macs and a pc at home.
(i couldn't have done this on twitter if i'd tried!)
it's cheaper and you can customize the speed.
ag having been there and done that i can tell you that if you have never used a mac and switch is going to be a bit of a, say, culture shock.
mac is better when it comes videos, pictures and writing too.
if it's a big deal to you, macs are pretty envionrmentally friendly.
there are so many things that seem logical and easy on a pc that are mega complicated on the mac.
and i had virusprotection!
if you're new here, you may want to subscribe to myrss feed.
i don't really like mac's… mac.
i got an asus gaming computer for my oldest, and it's great, but it cost as much as a macbook.
my bf agrees, but he still prefers his mac.
so much easier to use and it has none of the issues i had with my pc (viruses, slow, heavy).
uncategorized | category:
i'd do some research, find out what programs you need and stuff because like i said, unless you buy a package deal, everything is separate.
i bought acers for 2 of my kids, i've had to return them once as well.
i have a dell again, but only because i got a massive discount through my work (800 bucks off total…) but even then, i have still had to call them about 4 times in 14 months i have had this.
make sure if you go mac that you know how many mac-authorized service places there are near you.
i was informed by my special someone the other day, that he’d like to get me a laptop for christmas.
and i think it is the best computer hands down that i've ever used.
i only want a mac for scrivener and imovie, which are two amazing programs.
plus, they hardly get viruses or have problems.
definitely go for mac!
the points have pretty much already been made but here's my two cents: get a mac
i had a mac, ages ago and you can't use a lot of programs on it.
mac is a pro thing and it looks cute… for sure mac it's easy to do work where ever you want to.
i'm writing this words from an ibook g4.
oh yes, and they were dead, dead too.
i chose the non-glare screen because it's easier on the eye while writing for long hours.
i will never go back to pc.
the laptop before this one was a dell and i had a million problems with it-
plus this: i've crashed three macs.
although i'm challenged technology-wise, and both formats have given me their share of grief, i'd stick with the pc.
you should see all the problems people are posting.
i've never had any problem with my mac and i don't worry about getting any virus!
so far in the last 10 years…i've used about 6 different laptops…ranging from compaq all the way to acer….
the advantage to having a local place is you don't have to mail your computer somewhere, you take it in & they fix it when you have a problem.
as the previous posters pointed out: prettier (of course that doesn't really matter), fewer viruses, very user-friendly, and apple constantly comes up with fun techy stuff for their macs i have a pc at work and mac at home.
sorry, this turned out so long!!!
and not just because he works there.
i finally got my first mac about 4 months ago.
so, the question of the day is….
i asked out of curiousity what a new computer similar to mine would cost, it was about the same as a new mac.
as said not all programs work on mac
there are so many great things about a mac, it's true, but pcs are just simpler.
while i do have a pc, it runs linux (configured it myself and love it!).
whereas, yes a mac in the short-run is more expensive, but over time, you actually save money with the mac, since you aren't constantly fixing or replacing it.
and one of the school computers also got a virus on it while i was using it (computers hate me), which is also supposed to be impossible for macs.
macs are just wonderful!
happy holidays anna shah hoque s7anna@yahoo.ca p.s.
for me, a pc all the way.
reading these comments sounds like a lot of mac people… i am pc.
it took some getting used to at first, but once i was initiated, that was it.
the graphics are really great and the operating system is soo much easier to use than windows.
"if you are going to run windows things on your mac, you might as well get a pc."
mac – i switched a year ago and it was the best idea.
dottie i have to voice the same opinions already stated.
all  content ©the story siren 2007-2011 share this:
apple also has great support from what i've heard.
i've only had desktops
but what are you the most comfortable with because that is what really matters.
but i know lots of people who have the macbooks and love them.
and final reason, macs have a tendency to do better with the entertainment end of things (graphics, web-development, video editing, etc.)
i'm a pc user, but most all my friends have macs and they run well.
macs are so user friendly and well designed.
i just find them more easy to use.
i need to find a better browser.
at school we have mac ibooks and they are amazing to work with.
there is also a decreased risk of viruses (the same way if you use linux).
(i don't use it much, so i only notice the stuff that annoys me compared to my computer.)
if you play around with a lot of multimedia stuff (video and audio editing, mostly), then sure, get a mac.
but if you go dell, get a warranty!
but make sure you get the warranty or whatever.
it will help you stay updated on all my new  posts!
another "downside' is that everything (ilife, iwork, etc) is all separate and unless you have a hotmail, yahoo, msn, etc email, you will have to pay for mac's email system.
kind of a pain, but i haven't had to go into the genius bar more than two or three times over the years, all under warranty (be sure to get the extended warranty!)
the only complaint is that safari isn't compatible with all online sites, so i downloaded firefox, but that tends to freeze up more than i think it should.
and i know that if/when i want to upgrade, my computer will hold its value.
my pc is forever getting viruses that result in rebulding the harddrive, but my mac has never had a problem!
in addition to being a writer, i'm a professional photographer and artist so a big part of the appeal was having a dedicated graphic card (mid range one) and excellent graphics.
partially because the little experience i've had is not good.
sorry, gotta go with pc.
we have several imacs, they work great, and the hubs has a macbook, it's at least six years old, and when we had a minor problem, apple fixed it and returned it right away.
and why?all content ©the story siren 2007-2011
i had to replace the screen once, the motherboard twice, the powercord about 5 times, the heat fan twice and the cd drive three times.
blogging with a mac is a bit different as well.
after all my offers of talking to my hubby who is a manager at apple you still have to ask?
it wears off, sure, but from then on you do have to look out for compatibility issues.
you have the extra cash get a pc
i had to download the software for my internet on my computer for my brother's mac so he could access the internet so it could get the rest of the programming it needed to operate correctly.
i was a pc girl until three years ago when i bought a mac.
like reverse "parallels."
dottie i have to say pc.
i really really need that for school assignments and powerpoints, etc and mac's page app is not compatible with pc.
faster, no viruses, less clunky and easier to use.
they have a really long battery life so you don't have to keep them plugged in all the time and they are made of recycled materials, i believe.
sofware is much better than pcs, and they are also so cool!
if you can get someone to program it, i would suggest getting a pc and them programing it to run mac as well.
the story siren - all rights reserved powered by wordpress & atahualpa featuring recent posts wordpress widget development by yd
since then i have bought 2 other macs just just because i am kind of spoiled and had money burning in my pocket, not because any of them had problems.
but if you're going to keep your pc and it has all the window stuff on it, then you could get by without having windows on your mac.
it's very user friendly…handles all updates on its own…i never have to worry about viruses and crashes…it's so comfortable to type on because the keyboard is slightly different from other laptops…the keys are more sunk in so there's less stress on your fingers.
or, if you can't find someone to do that, i'd get a mac and run "parallels" even though that's just not as good.
you should get a mac.
over all i'm happy with how my programs run (compared to pc).
and software often comes out for the pc first, too.
apple makes a great computer that's super user friendly, but it does take time to get used to.
they are also user friendly, gorgeous to look at and to use.
i was an idiot & had no antivirus or anything else for a long time.
thanks for stopping by the story siren!
i got a macbook pro in september and i love it.
i'm so, so, so happy.
but hey it might amuse or not.
so, i would recommend getting an extended warranty on almost any laptop – much more fragile than a desktop – and if funds are limited, get a pc, and if money is not a concern, macbook.
i have to voice the same opinions already stated.
to have a choice on that matter?
it was worth the price
i've had to return my gateway more often than i've had the thing working in the house, but it was inexpensive, so you get what you pay for.
we've been mac people for about 9 years and have never had a virus.
i'd go with mac since i'm guessing i have a pc.
like everyone said they do not get viruses as easily.
i don't think i'll ever go back to pc.
it will help you stay updated on all my new posts!
i’ve talked to some friends on twitter about this, but i thought  i’d ask my blog friends what they thought, and why.
mac is a pro thing and it looks cute… pc pc pc pc pc for sure!
but, on the plus side, mac's crash a lot less and no viruses.
so how's that for a computer that "doesn't crash"?
your tight on cash macs last a lot longer than pcs, in general.
i have had my laptop for 5 years now.
it caught up with me.
i would highly recommend a macbook.
macs are the best and they're prettier too!
also you have to spend close to $3000 on a macbook that is similar to a $700+ pc laptop.
if you're an art student, macs are better, but if not, get a good ol' pc.
my mom wants a mac and she wanted one for christmas…but a few things came up.
having been there and done that i can tell you that if you have never used a mac and switch is going to be a bit of a, say, culture shock.
if you like windows office, you have to get a different version & (using someone else's words)
i have a macbook and i absolutely love it.
for sure mac it's easy to do work where ever you want to.
i had one for three weeks and it just crashed.
i was informed by my special someone the other day, that he’d like to  get me a laptop for christmas.
i'm one of those people who's not a mac or a pc.
while i like pcs, i definitely prefer macs.
if use microsoft a lot, you will have to get microsoft for mac.
as in having to be sent back to the factory dead.
that was in 4 years, but still.
it depends on what you plan to do with it.
as someone that's getting a windows vistaectomy today unless the guy turns into an icicle since it happens to be -8
if you are surfing the internet, writing, and playing games…stay with a pc.
however, it's not a mac world out there so the compatibility is very trying.
i'm a mac person and always have been one (except for office jobs).
i must vote for a mac.
i don't really like mac's… pc pc pc pc pc for sure!
i found it much easier to work with and navigate.
things you do on a mac will not always look the same on a windows operating system–but if you have both a mac and a pc, you're probably going be covered!
i bought my first macbook this summer, and was totally convinced i was going to get a great deal on ebay.
and it crashed after *four* weeks.
i just bought a macbook two weeks ago and am very much loving it.
so, my suggestion- a pc but not a dell, or a dell with a long warranty because then it covers basically everything, you just have to take the time to get it done.
if i was you, i wouldn't hesitate, buy a mac!!!
the battery life on a mac is great, so if you want to do a lot of work without being connected to your charger, get a mac.
another downside to a mac, if you don't have software to make your existing internet connection work on a mac, you will have a hard time getting your mac fully operational.
uncategorized i have both and i have to say that i love my macbook!!
you just use it to typeset 2)
to be honest, in reality pcs are more expensive than macs in the long run, seeing as how you basically need to replace the pc every 6 months, and there is a greater risk of viruses and crashing.
i've been a mac for almost three years now and i will never go back to pc.
if you're new here, you may  want to subscribe to myrss feed.
we got an imac almost 2 years ago and it is amazing.
i've only had my mac for a few months, but it's true love.
next minor difference: most laptops i've used have a mouse that you just tap & it clicks, on a mac you have to push the mouse because its a button.
if you do get a mac you will instantly despise windows!
and i find it hard to get used to using it after so many years of pcs.
(i had to wait weeks for the pc's to be returned.)
the only issue is that there are programs that don't work on a mac, but there are a lot of ways to work around that so they work.
my only complaint is that i have trouble finding certain software for it because i don't have the money for expensive image editing programs.
i got my computer from a place called pc laptops.
i have a pc laptop right now, and it has all sorts of problems.
and if i don't know i'll ask him.
so you will be able to switch back and forth between mac and windows.
well, i used both a pc (home) and a mac (school) while growing up and always found the pc easier to use.
there are minor differences between the two that i'm sure really wouldn't matter, but bugged me.
that's been over 2 decades .
good luck and have fun with your new toy!
plus there are barley no viruses!!!
so far, i've been working on a 46 second video for 4 hours and still can't get it working.
ag i prefer my pc, my sister has a mac i use sometimes and i find it hard to get used to using it after so many years of pcs.
really minor, there is no delete key.
of course, the downside of macs are the prices (they are definitely on the pricier side), but it's worth it.
if you get a pc, go for a vaio, because those one's last forever (and all of the many people i know who have one have had zero problems–i probably should have gotten one of those!)
i'm making friends with people in vista forums.
mainly because no one wants to write the code to make a virus =)
, so i stick with it.
there are some inconveniences (default programs/applications pc has that you'll have to download for mac), but it's very nice, and once you get used to it, you probably won't want to go back.
i grew up using pcs all my life.
they are more versatile and you aren't constrained by brand.
i bought my desk top that i still currently use in 2005… and honestly it works fine, considering all the crap it’s been through, so i’ll probably keep it along with my laptop.
there are some really cool applications and it hasn't gotten a virus.
however, pc's are cheaper.
it's super-convenient and works a lot better and faster than parallels.
you'll have to tell us what you end up going with.
i’ve talked to some friends on twitter about this, but i thought i’d ask my blog friends what they thought, and why.
my brother has a mac.
there is one thing need to mention, no inboard modem on the mac, you have to either buy a usb modem
do u have a mac or a pc?
i can sell it and take that money and apply it to my new purchase.
i can hardly stand working on windows anymore.
this probably isn't helpful at all
what a nice holiday gift!
as the previous posters pointed out: prettier (of course that doesn't really matter), fewer viruses, very user-friendly, and apple constantly comes up with fun techy stuff for their macs to have a choice on that matter?
the mac is faster, has better graphics and once you get used to it's system is more user friendly by far than a pc, most of it is just common sense stuff… the bottom line is that you have to see what you want to use the computer for, if internet use 100% you do not have to buy antivirus software and you would be pleased with lesser cost that way.
i would not trade my mac for a pc even if someone paid me!
i also got tired with all the virus the pcs were getting
they're great, and easy to use.
and i still prefer my pc.
i'm having the same dilemma at the moment except i unfortunately have to buy it for myself- you are so lucky!
can and that way you can set it up in any room you want.. i hope this helps and whichever way you go happy new computering….. year back july since switched from pc to my imac desktop computer and will never go back to the pc for using on the internet ever ever ever.
can and that way you can set it up in any room you want.. i hope this helps and whichever way you go happy new computering….. you should get a mac.
if and when i get a laptop it will definitely be a mac.
i can't really say much about macs, though i have used them and when i did, i missed my old pc.
and now macs are just plain confusing to me.
if you do decide to get a mac, you might want to consider the dual boot system (boot camp)
i'm thinking mac though, the build quality of the laptop is heaps better than most i hear and the battery life is great.
i prefer my pc, my sister has a mac i use sometimes
i have a pc at work and mac at home.
have fun with whatever you get!
my husband can only use his old pcs for parts.
we have only one in this area and it's half and hour away.
if on dialup or if you have high speed internet have to use a router on the ethernet plug in and the built in wireless airport for the router connection lets you do away with the cord connection just like a pc
« the van alen legacy  by melissa de la cruz angels are hot: contest winners  » pc or mac?
if you're going to be doing something other than writing or going online, see if the programs you will be using are available for macs.
but after my pc was constantly getting viruses and finally crashed, i finally got my first mac (an ibook) 7 years ago.
i took it in, they cleaned it up, & it runs great again.
if you are doing video editing, home videos and that kind of stuff, go with a mac.
it's the best decision you'll ever make.
mac's don't crash, hang, lose stuff, generally they are just perfect *sigh*
if 1) you go online 2)
thank you so much for visiting!