what they no longer sell is rack mounted servers.
i'm pretty sure all those college kids with their macbooks weren't using macs 10 years ago.
i investigated doing just this for a smaller firm i was a part of, but when an apple store opened up less than a mile away it didn't make sense anymore.
it simply is not ok for a person or computer company to dictate that it can't be changed, what apps are ok or not ok, or how to use your device.
there are many premium brands of windows-equipped pc which compete with apple for the "premium" computing dollars (in addition to the dirt cheap windows pcs of this world, which still have that market segment to themselves).
simon china and india are not markets of 1.5 and 1 billion.
after all, correlation !
when you are really scraping pennies you want something that will not break all the time, that you can use as long as possible.
" not to nit pick but the 8051 was released august 12, 1981, and while yes they did have devices like programmable calculators well before then.
i also haven't had any problems with last year's model of the imac 27 i7 or the previous year imac 24 core2 duo.
netbook sales, once acer's bread-and-butter, have dried-up in recent years.
but i wonder if the netbook market has stagnated, or saturated?
apple sent us a notice last year to come by the store and fix one of our white macbook chasis for free because they considered some cracking to be a manufacturing defect.
it annoys me how clueless people are to choice.
no new comments can be posted.
i'm wondering if part of the explanation...
he continued to insist that, because of marketing, the definition had changed, and that the term "pc" now referred to the operating system.
it started before microsoft was anything to worry about, the ibm pc was a huge success, so much so it was cloned by everyfuckingbody, and well if you wanted a ibm pc compatible it had to run its os of choice
the sales report comes  after some other good news this week for apple: a third of big businesses now  let employees choose a mac as their pc —and more than half choose the mac ."
there is some internal stuff going on that makes it look like that's where jobs wants to go, but that can change.
they still have the mac mini server [apple.com] for soho use.
well no, what you're missing here is that pcs are getting passed-over for tablets.
among research students, 90% buys a mac because it abstracts the unix shell away
i'm wondering if part of the explanation is that the pc market has become saturated, with new hardware having much more horsepower than any office user could reasonably take advantage of.
asia becomes fastest-growing mac market [e27.sg] the company reported a 160% year-on-year jump in asian mac sales after selling a record-breaking 3.47 million computers in its third quarter ended june 26.parent share twitter facebook
but sometimes pretty good is good enough.
you've got that exactly backward.
we're talking macs, not ios devices.
gmgruman writes "the last  time apple's mac sales accounted for more than 10 percent of the u.s. pc market  was 1991.
one of which was a 199.99 frys special.
i have two windows machines, in use, that are over 6 years old.
i have 2 completely broken dell laptops that are around the same age, so we didn't consider a crack on a macbook to be that big of a deal.
i'd really appreciate it if you'd let me know how to change it.
it's a separate install, not a separate download (although it will be with 10.7 lion)
no developer account necessary, just install it.
in my experience, all of them.
the title should read "after a baker's decade, ...".parent
what do you do just keep a bunch of them around as spares?
most high end laptops for example are trying to copy apple, some there no more priced the equivalent machines.
100 of 410 comments loaded twitter  facebook apple business mac ibm donates symphony code
or is it because the employees don't ask... i have to wonder why the other 2/3rds don't let their employees change.
mac sales have been steadily climbingyear after year [arstechnica.com].
the "i'm a mac, i'm a pc" commercial series twisted what "pc" meant to make it out to be a windows machine.
actually they did one of those commercials where "mac" specifically says he's"a pc too"
i'm a little surprised.
those are all switchers.
happens depressingly often.
apple sells servers, in big tower configurations and in home appliance-like configurations.
you've provided a fine counter-example, and i'm sure there are plenty of others.
every school daughter has attended in my area -- grade, junior high, high -- are mac exclusively.
you really have no clue about osx / unix do you?
it's measured in some odd recursive binary.
if only every business on the planet had that problem...
and so it's' recursive like php, 10 *2 = 20.
"try switching where your window controls are located" you poor tortured soul.
[mashable.com] or is it some marketing hype in order to make the stocks in nasdaq move ?
to apache software foundation submission: after a decade, mac sales again top 10% app uses  facial profiling to identify perps this discussion has been  archived.
you can dual boot or use a virtual machine.
apple does not sell servers.
if anything i would blame the case badges from the xt-at ibm pc's which was pc visually dominating the thing don't forget not being able to (legally) run it on virtual machines (unless you have os x server).
in the asia pacific region, mac sales grew 76 percent year over year.
pc means personal computer, people.
i'm free to change anything i want how do you configure the dock to auto-hide and reappear with no delay?
parent share twitter facebook i'm thinking the editor just had a serious "jesus-
people who are prepared to pay a premium when buying a pc don't hesitate to chose a mac.
they are out of the enterprise server market, although there's a rumor they are planning a rack mountable version of the mac pro.
that is the worst argument against a macbook pro i've ever heard.
you learn something new every day.
i spent a summer helping out in the grade school computer lab one summer, got acquainted with a fairly wide range of mac hardware, some quite elderly.
you can still boot other oses or run them in a vm, and there's no requirement to use the app store to get your apps.
let me know when you pass 12 percent.
i didn't know gcc was proprietary.
but then there are always apple rumors.
its the first ibm product called personal computer my linux desktops disagree.
(often i can't even salvage the case, because it's some strange configuration into which a generic motherboard will not fit.)
i'm the main tech support for my extended family who all used windows computers.
instead, apple merely traded places with acer, and pumped their share a little due to the largest lineup refresh in over a year.
yes, the macs do have the occasional issue but they are much easier to use and they rarely break down.
parent share twitter facebook the personal computer isn't locked down like that.
please stand up and defend your statement.
the other problem i see is that the people who want these macbooks the most tend to want them because they're cool, and thus will be more likely to want upgrades before five years is up.
in the 90s some macs came with a x86 coprocessor card, it was basically a pc in a slot.
pc makers have basically given up on the high end.
i'm wondering where the guy is who i was arguing with that the term "pc" means "personal computer" and hence applies to damn near any computer sold for personal use.
it would be interesting to see how apple stacks up in asia, where the pc market is still growing at 12% per year...
i guess you can still buy bsd workstations, which is genetic unix even if it is not trademarked as such.
uh, no, the ibm pc back in the 70's and 80's was when pc =
i have to wonder why the other 2/3rds don't let their employees change.
i wouldn't really categorize them as long-lasting and reliable but maybe it's just a mac-fail cluster here.
now they all run macs and i rarely have to do anything.
but i have to agree about the uptick in corporations allowing macs, having seen it in my own company.
after a decade, mac sales again top 10%  more login after a decade, mac sales again top 10% archived discussion load all  comments full  abbreviated  hidden
usually, it's because they have an exclusive volume purchase deal with hp or dell.
i was thinking more that of the ... third of big businesses now let employees choose a mac as their pc — and more than half choose the mac.
am i the only person delighted that they used pc not exclusively in the windows context?
most apple users i know are switchers (as am i.)
the days of being 3 times expensive are over.
blore's razor: given a choice between two theories, take the one which is funnier.
premium price = premium market.
but considering a modern mac is just a pc running a different os, you can still buy a pretty good pc for less than what you would pay for a m but considering a modern mac is just a pc running a different os, you can still buy a pretty good pc for less than what you would pay for a mac.
are workstations not desktops?
fortunately, apple does not do any of these things with mac desktops or servers.
moment when he realised his mistake (or will do when he will).
http://www.apple.com/support/programs/ what does that cost?
is it because they don't want to?
so yes, apple did have macs that could run ms-dos and windows just fine back in the 90s.
there may be more comments in this discussion.
share twitter facebook babylonians would probably use sixtieths instead of percent, making the milestone 6/60: the last time apple's mac sales account for more than 6 sixtieths of the u.s. pc market was 1991.
parent share twitter facebook apple does not sell servers.
apple doesn't force anyone to use osx.
parent share twitter facebook
among customers, too many have been bitten by dell and the like which could offer a cheap computer but will be filled with crapware and fail within 2 years.
parent share twitter facebook i know its purely anecdotal
in addition, apple released a major refresh on their most popular models th this is a variation on what i was trying to say, that we're not seeing more mac sales, we're seeing fewer pc sales.
i'm sure that there are plenty of windows users out there who have very few problems with their machines but for the ordinary person a windows machine can be very fragile.
or better yet, no the os the machine runs has nothing to do with how well the hardware lasts.
even when they do break down it usually a quick fix and the machine is back in action.
well ok, but would you really expect fred and ethyl mertz to understand this and make decisions based on it?
once you throw in things like service, build quality, noise level, footprint and intangibles like style, macs own their category.
it would be interesting to see how apple stacks up in asia, where the pc market is still growing at 12% per year..
but it's still available.
in addition, apple released a major refresh on their most popular models this quarter (something folks have been waiting on after years of core 2), so they were able to satisfy a lot of pent-up demand.
the apple store isn't the only game in town for buying mac service agreements.
and i like people who own flower shops and have big hula hoop earrings.
the only thing worse than a laggy ui is a ui with delays deliberately built into it.
or is this somewhat of a nerd thing?
then it would be very simple.
it seems that the japanese appreciate "shit that works" over "shit that needs a degree to understand" just as much as other people.
that's a very astute observation.
[wikipedia.org] yep, nothing says "locked down" more than bundling an ide with your os, along with gcc, llvm, perl, java, python, ruby...parent share twitter facebook solaris workstations are still sold.
acer went from over %10 of the us pc market to around %8, basically trading places with apple.
there's no reason to buy a new pc because the last one i bought was fa i'm not going to argue it either way.
i have several first generation intel models and i haven't had a problem.
here's a hint: if ios didn't exist, apple would still sell millions of computers a year.
you can build a "pretty good" pc for less than a mac if you only compare the specs.
you might want to check your sources: http://www.appleinsider.com/articles/09/02/28/japanese_hate_for_iphone_all_a_big_mistake.html [appleinsider.com]http://mashable.com/2009/07/04/iphone-japan/
-jcr i talked to an idc analyst when this broke: apple was at 10.5% back around spring/summer 2010.
we are not responsible for them in any way.
this spring,apple finally returned to that market share high, with  10.7 percent of all u.s. pc sales, according to both idc and gartner.
the x-serve was discontinued last year, i think.
i'm not a mac fan; i have one at home because my daughter is required to use them at school, but it's always good
i wouldn't have expected this in a down economy, considering the mac's premium price.
also, compiling custom code is a lot simpler (gcc program.c) than setting up and dealing with either visual studio (and it's odd licensing for redistribution and compiler quirks) or cygwin.
but i have apple computers that are powerpcs and they are still running well without problems.
"it simply is not ok for a person or computer company to dictate that it can't be changed, what apps are ok or not ok, or how to use your device."
that is their populations, not the number of people who are able to buy computers of any sort.
i know its purely anecdotal
lack of onsite service and mail ahead parts makes them non-starters for business use.
after a decade, mac sales again top 10% 410 posted by timothy on  thursday july 14 2011, @04:50pm from the  in-many-ways-never-really-went-away dept.
one of the most difficult things i have to do is tell someone they bought a cut rate pc that can't be upgraded and the best thing they can do is dump it and start over.
yeah, because garnering 10% of the world's computer hardware market is such a petty accomplishment compared to their "main" business.
this somewhat helped.
these days, macs are just pcs running a different os with a slightly cooler display and keyboard.
i'm free to change anything i want, i can run any app i want, and i can use my mac desktop any way i want.
for large enough businesses you would just get one or two guys trained as certified apple techs and they can then order replacement parts, direct from apple to have on hand.
while that's true what we're seeing isn't a one time peak.
the articles talking about the study used apple as an example, since they were the only major computer manufacturer who saw positive growth in unit sales in the quarter or two immediately after the recession hit, while the rest of the >
not answering anything in your post other than the whole japan thing was proven to be the result of "analysts", well, just making shit up.
a bit like realising your favourite music is now considered "retro", or seeing a style of clothing come "back into fashion" which you recognise from the first time round.
it's not that big a deal.
i haven't found any suggestions on the internet.
that is also mistaken.
the articles talking about the study used apple as an example, since they were the only major computer manufacturer who saw positive growth in unit sales in the quarter or two immediately after the recession hit, while the rest of the industry was seeing negative growth i understand this, but i submit that the rest of the industry would have been sluggish regardless, because hardware had overstepped the requirements of the software.
'clueless' - how apt.
it probably has a lot to do with the fact that, in tough economic times, it tends to be the poor who suffer (the ones who would buy the cheapest pcs), while those with a lot of spare cash tend to carry on having [...] japan is 100 million (and you have to have advanced gadgetry there - cellular phones that cannot display tv broadcasts dont sell - that includes apple's iphoneshttp://www.wired.com/gadgetlab/2009/02/why-the-iphone/ [wired.com] )
apple's customer base is relatively fixed, and that means that when the cheap-end of the pc market falters, their "percentage" of the market grows without needing any sales growth.
the difference here is that apple is likely to keep this spot because of gangbuster sales -- and, of course, acer's "there are no ipads in baghdad" strategy of depending way too much on netbooks and cheap notebooks.
share twitter facebook perhaps this method of counting is an attempt to delay y3k problems?
or you can reformat and install another os.
there are no "nice" pc's anymore, all i see are half assed attempts by the likes of hp and ricer monstrocities while the rest are in a race to the bottom.
imho, ymmv, etc. understood, there's a lot of trash out there.
you know we are talking about macs, right?
so 20 this is a recursive binary decade.
apple does very well in japan - according to a (later) wsj [wsj.com] article, apple has ~72% of the smartphone market in japan.
way to totally miss the point.
the ios ecosystem only helps the halo effect and spurns growth in their computer hardware divisions.
during that same period, i've had 1 dead sony laptop, 3 dead dell desktops, and 2 operational but basically worthless dell laptops due to their cases breaking at key mechanical points (eg hinges, latches, keyboard).
try doing it on windows.
that's a  major reversal from its 2004 share of under 2 percent.
i'd be willing to bet that ios development is a huge factor in this... because a lot of houses are wanting to jump on the ios development bandwagon, and the only authorized way to develop for ios (and the only way to get an app on itunes) is by using a mac for development.
selling a crapload of high-profit stuff seems to work well enough for them.
nickname: password:public terminal 100 of 410 comments loaded twitter facebookapple business mac nickname: password:public terminal the fine print: the following comments are owned by whoever posted them.
or ubuntu, for that matter.
customer service is abysmal with some of these companies an >
since when does 20 years = 1 decade?
so if you want to conveniently run some office type app on the mac desktop you can do so, and when you want to run a game and get full performance you can dual boot rather than emulate.
now, someone who *wants* a mac won't hesitate to pay the premium, but what we were talking about here (i think) is previous pc customers who have decided to make the switch.
they are selling like hotcakes: overseas growth driving mac sales as us consumers hold out for new models [appleinsider.com] in the march quarter, apple reported 28 percent growth in mac sales for a total of 3.76 million units.
i don't think aapl really needs this kind of help.
i finally got fed up with it and convinced each one to convert over to mac as their computers died out.
the entire explanation can be found here [apple.com].
like, any tablet that is purchased instead of a pc but is not an ipad still counts as not a mac sa apple's customer base is relatively fixed, and that means that when the cheap-end of the pc market falters, their "percentage" of the market grows without needing any sales growth.
because dell will let our helpdesk folks replace parts and they charge nothing for that.
the people at the higher end of the income scale are doing pretty great about now while those below are getting crushed.
when she had to bring software home, (she's dyslexic and is entitled to some special ed tools) sometimes there would be a pc version, but there was problems often enough that it was easier to buy a used mac and dedicate it as a hom i guess it depends on the school district, or how aggressive the local salescreatures are who handle school accounts.
the mac apps could support this pretty easily, just as many linux applications look fine in both kde and gnome.
parent share twitter facebook why do you think a windows machine won't?
this spring, apple finally returned to that market share high, with 6.4 sixtieths of all u.s. pc sales, according to both idc and gartner.
hadn't thought of that.
so i'm not really sure what your point is.
which is more then a decade.
as it is it takes about half a second to pop up, which is long enough to get annoyed at it.
can't you run x and any windowing system you want inside that on a mac?
even 1 mile is too far to hassle with, how long will your employee be gone waiting for that?
i recall seeing a study from a few years back that people in economic downtimes tend to be more frugal (not really a surprise), to research big purchases much more carefully, and to purchase items which they expect to last them for longer, even if they come at a higher price.
pc is shorthand not just for personal computer, but also, "ibm compatible personal computer.
that's a major reversal from its 2004 share of barely over 1 sixtieth.
not clear to me that tablets are specifically digging into traditional pc revenue, but if so, this should be reflected in the numbers somehow.
changing window managers is not big deal, but it not impacting mac apps is pretty lame.
although the stagnation of the netbook market is a good point that i had not thought of.
just because people are making a choice you don't like, doesn't make everyone else is clueless.
i appreciated this line especially: a third of big businesses now let employees choose a mac as their pc
= causation and all that.
fwiw apple has replaced gcc with clang/llvm http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/clang
intel box running dos/windows.
i'd say they traded places with the likes of hp and sony on the premium end of the market which apple completely owns.
in my group we have a high chunk of problems with macbooks, especially with batteries.
the conspiarcy side of me says that there is a gigantic education bubble going on, all those 'graphic designers' need macs for their gubmint funded for-profit 'degrees in animation'.
pretty much every weekend i was cleaning up one computer or another, fixing both hardware and software issues.
we pretty much went all mac for all new purchases because of the great experience we have with apple computers and their excellent customer support.
windows is not the place anyone runs x11.
as a matter of fact the virtual machine software on the mac can run windows from that dual boot partition or a more typical vm filesystem file(s).
often a "cheap" pc is just a false economy [wikipedia.org].
fast forward to now, since the x86 macs, they can finally actually run ms-dos programs.
(boot disk of course)
they were marketing some of their macs/powerbooks as if they could run ms-dos programs.
personally i'd prefer a thinkpad with linux if it could get past the corporate blockade that requires outlook.
without javascript enabled, you might want toturn on classic discussion system in your preferences instead.
so, this is not some "amazing" milestone, nor is it an indicator of impressive growth for apple in the pc market.
the thing is: apple's main business is not selling computers, but gadgets/appliances.
parent share twitter facebook http://refit.sourceforge.net/myths/ [sourceforge.net] "...with 10.7 percent of all u.s. pc sales..." is that the lion share?...