thanks for listening to can  radio that's all the time we have.
well nathan their both great computers but i believe it's all about personal opinion."
i've been wondering which one you think is better?" "
i feel as if it the best computer on the  market."
i feel as if it the best computer on the market."
join in and write your own page!
i love your show!""well thanks.
debbie which do you prefer mac or pc?"
well nathan their both great computers but i believe
so lets get back to  the topic of the day.
all the bundles up into one whole package just  blows pc out of the water."
(c)  copyright 2008-11 build-creative-writing-ideas.com purchase some of author bryan cohen's books at  the following sites!
hi your on can radio" "hey you guys i'm dan" hi dan thanks for calling in.
" well i say we go to one of our callers and get their thoughts' on these two corporations." "hi caller number one your on can radio.
guess that feud lives on.
well there you have it.
"well to start off i own a mac and i feel like mac is the  better computer.
""hi chase and nathan my  name is debbie.
simply click here to return tofree creative writing prompts #1.
not just because i own one  but over half of americans do as well.
and i work on a pc and have a pc for the main computer and to me pc is  the best computer out there.
"and i'm chase, and your  listening to can radio!"
"and i'm chase and  this is can radio signing off.
i'm talking about the devices such as the itouch, the ipad, the computers.
"well thanks for your thought on the pc have a good  day."
hi your on can  radio" "hey you guys i'm dan" hi dan thanks for calling in.
it's all about personal opinion."
" to be honest i like  pc over mac."
"and i'm chase and this is can radio signing off.
" click here to post comments.
thanks for listening to can radio that's all the time we have.
"well to start off i own a mac and i feel like mac is the better computer.
" to be honest i like pc over mac."
don't get me wrong pc is a good computer but mac just has that  extra oomph to put it over the top.
" well i say we go to one of our  callers and get their thoughts' on these two corporations." "hi caller number one your on can radio.
" so lately i've been hearing a lot of talk  about the battle between pc and mac.
granted mac does have some good gadgets and computers but pc
chase and nathan my name is debbie.
so  the question is pc or mac.
i think beats them by a land slide.
"and why is that" "well i am in the computer  business
1,000 creative writing prompts: amazon,  smashwords, bcwi, barnes & noble, kobo, sony ted saves the world:  amazon, smashwords, barnes & noble sharpening the pencil: amazon,  smashwords, bcwi, barnes & noble 500 writing prompts for kids:  amazon, smashwords, bcwi, barnes & noble writer on the side: amazon ,smashwords, bcwi, barnes & noble chekhov kegstand: amazon,  smashwords, barnes & noble covenant coffee (ep. 1):
" so lately i've been hearing a lot of talk about the battle between pc and mac.
i'm talking about the devices such as the  itouch, the ipad, the computers.
"personally i'm more of a mac type of person" "why is that?"
"and i'm chase, and your listening to can radio!"
granted mac does have some good gadgets and  computers but pc
"well thanks for your thought on the pc have a good day."
one for pc one for mac.
"personally i'm more of a mac type of person" "why is  that?"
all the bundles up into one whole package just blows pc out of the water."
not just because i own one but over half of americans do as well.
don't get me wrong pc is a good computer but mac just has that extra oomph to put it over the top.
i've been wondering which one you think is  better?" "
so the question is pc or mac.
"and why is that" "well i am in the computer business and i work on a pc and have a pc for the main computer and to me pc is the best computer out there.
simply click  here to return tofree creative writing prompts #1.
"well thank you debbie for that wonderful  insight on your thought on the mac" "
"well thank you debbie for that wonderful insight on your thought on the mac" "
so lets get back to the topic of the day.
by nathan king (ocala, fl) "good morning ocala