mac os, the apple mac operating system, is based upon the berkley software  distribution (bsd) of unix, surrounded by a nice graphical user interface.
reply alan says: april 10, 2012 at 6:32 pm yes, i understand the space limitations and that nt wasn't widely used on  the desktop before xp, although nt3.51, nt4 and w2k were vastly superior to any  other desktop operating systems available contemporaneously (and microsoft  often gave nt away for free).
reply have to agree with city-support - although he omits to say whether the infected files had windows viruses in them which would not affect his client's mac!
reply peter j taylor says: april 10, 2012 at 11:44 pm thank you for responding, alan.
as someone forced to use micros**t products at work for 20 years & having my productivity diminished by the experience i offer no apologies for not enthusing about the micros**t experience.
this is where regions of computer memory that should not be  used for executing code are misused by rogue software.
mac os acquired aslr in late 2007 (mac os x v10.5, aka  "leopard").
mac osx is just as vulnuerable,  and this latest trojan proves that.
i still dispair at the number of people who ignore simple security basics, regardless of the os you use, you should have a decent av system.
of course there is no such thing as a totally secure system, but the clunky design of windows & the whole retarded user experience forced by using windows, means that users are more likely to be trapped into downloading and running malware.
culter previously developed vms and nt drew heavily on that earlier experience.
the performance of av systems is  dismal.
preventing is better then curing!reply ummmm... linux ftw?reply your email address will not be published.
that's almost 20 years ago and more than 8 years before the release of windows xp.
reply tim says: april 10, 2012 at 5:18 pm a change of mindset and some extra security will go a long way for the (in  the most polite way) ignorant apple product user.
that is quite a  safe way for employers to operate.
anti virus software is a personal choice and not always needed.
a mac os user is less likely to be attacked than a windows user, but that is nothing to do with the level of vulnerability in the operating system.
when you install a program in unix, you typically predict  which folders the executables and data will reside.
reply simon says: april 10, 2012 at 2:12 pm
"apple said it planned to improve items such as aslr in its next  release of mac os, but some five years later we are still waiting.
likewise,  you might exploit a vulnerability in a third party application, as happened  recently when abackdoor trojan embedded inside boobytrapped word documents  successfully ran on macs.
don't show me this again hi fellow twitter user!
"a security model had previously existed but it wasn't until xp, where objects were given security ids and allowed actions were enabled in a way similar to unix, that a model existed that had the same value as that in unix.
even mr cluley's occasional barbed stabs at macs have only been mildly irritating when it is obvious that not running a "decent av system" in a business environment is just plain stupid.
apple said it planned to improve items such as aslr in its next release of  mac os, but some five years later we are still waiting.
reply peter j taylor says: april 10, 2012 at 3:46 pm i've run sophos on my macs since 1999, and it has never reported any  irrelevant garbage: just a handful of infected emails in all that time.
but you really shouldn't drink it.
reply @profwoodward says: april 10, 2012 at 4:41 pm i did have in mind desktop oss when i wrote the piece so didn't mention nt.
javascript code was used  to load a java-applet which exploited a vulnerability (since patched).
with thelast three years seeing a growth in mac os malware in excess  of 200%, mac os users need to start adopting a different mindset or they will  be caught out.
in less than 1  hour i was infected by a malicious site.
reply grahamg says: april 10, 2012 at 2:22 pm have to agree with city-support - although he omits to say whether the  infected files had windows viruses in them which would not affect his client's  mac! have used sophos for about 15 years on a mixed mac and pc network (we  are a printer) and have not had an issue.
mac osx is just as vulnuerable, and this latest trojan proves that.
the first time around it reported a lot of irrelevant garbage.
from the start getting third-party developers and end-users to use it was difficult.
whatever the new  security conscious approach from micros**t entails, the company will always be  associated with poorly designed, buggy and insecure software, and this  reputation is well deserved.
as well as preventing developers inadvertently building this into their  applications by adding safeguards to the compilers, microsoft also introduced  memory protection mechanisms within their operating systems.
" my understanding is that apple was slow to implement aslr but that the current version of os x has caught up.
however, there are similar warnings coming from many other independent sources and many incidents being reported to support the proliferation of mac attacks.
for windows, this has spawned a whole host of tools for the uninstall and clean-up process.
steve jobs came up with some amazing products but security was never big on the feature list.
by default am antivirus system must download and install  updates.
with this increase in scale, it's natural for them to expand their market to  cover macs in addition to pcs.
what you don't say is that there are two windows families, ms-dos, w95, w98 etc.
why not join us on facebook to find out about the latest security threats.
reply april 10, 2012 at 12:44 pm as apple says:
yes, i understand the space limitations and that nt wasn't widely used on the desktop before xp, although nt3.51, nt4 and w2k were vastly superior to any other desktop operating systems available contemporaneously (and microsoft often gave nt away for free).
i think what all of this exemplifies is two populations of users (mac os  and windows) that have developed very different attitudes to security.
if you began your career using unix, as i did, one of the things you come to value is that unix (and hence mac os) has always had a security model built into the operating system.
that was not always the case for windows as it was originally based upon ms-dos.
anyway, i  take a go at answering.
however, there are similar warnings coming  from many other independent sources and many incidents being reported to  support the proliferation of mac attacks.
what i want from a system is functionality, something that would  be degraded if i started believing & acting on all the sophos hype!
if you're new here, you might want to subscribe to our rss feed for updates.
yes, because sophos really are trying to get people to buy their software.
never used sophos antivirus so can't comment.
a security model  had previously existed but it wasn't until xp, where objects were givensecurity  ids and allowed actions were enabled in a way similar to unix, that a model  existed that had the same value as that in unix.
i was trying to make sure i didn't compare apples and oranges :).
i have run windows 95 without anti virus for more than 10 years without  virus of any kind.
apple said it planned to improve items such as aslr in its next release of mac os, but some five years later we are still waiting.
if you were spouting more than hot air you'd know that apple is trying to develop a program similar to microsoft's sdl and that apple has actually hired away security expertise from microsoft and other companies over the last couple of years to help address their on-going security problem.
why not  join us on facebook to find out about the latest security threats.
join the naked security discussion group and connect with your  peers in the security industry.
reply searbet says: april 10, 2012 at 4:42 pm i think most of the stuff it found came via a work exchange account i was  monitoring at home.
initially, one of the biggest threats was considered by microsoft to be  buffer overflow.
the first time  around it reported a lot of irrelevant garbage.
for an assessment of the current state of os x and ios security i'd also read anything on the topic by charlie miller and dino dai zovi.
while i know  perfectly secure system, sometimes i wonder if the guys coding their programs  even care or notice if they make a system more vulnerable with their apps.
i see no reason for  those companies not to bear part of the burden to keep all computers secure by  cleaning up their code.
nearly every time i hear about a new vulnerability it isn't due to the os being vulnerable, it's due to some sloppy coding in some app that was made for a pc/mac.
like g dean, the "charms" of microsoft elude me, but as long as the machines are protected and the only worry is the convoluted logic behind the operating system - i can live with them - albeit with having to pay for "professional" help which is not needed on the macs.
thus, apple's jvm is usually behind any other platform in regards to fixes and/or versions.
the concept of read, write and execute for various executables and data, as implemented in unix, is simple to understand and has stood unix systems in good stead for many years.
that is quite a safe way for employers to operate.
reply machine_silver says: april 10, 2012 at 3:32 pm it is of course peoples perrogative to stick their head in the sand and  ignore the warnings from sophos who, you could legitimately argue have a  potential vested interest in scaring mac users (although their mac av product  is presently free for home use!).
well, security kool-aid maybe
reply mac os + faronics deep freeze
adobe flash, java, and a number of other  add-in and plug-ins make all computers more vulnerable.
rob m says: april 10, 2012 at 11:33 am macs safer, no.
reply april 10, 2012 at 5:12 pm "intrusive and performance degrading security products.
here's a video to take you back to the bygone era of apple security  nostalgia.
having said that in the last 20 years of using a mac i have  been infected 0 times had 0 malware installed and feel safe.
i still dispair at the number of people who ignore simple security basics,  regardless of the os you use, you should have a decent av system.
reply thank you for responding, alan.
a security model had previously existed but it wasn't until xp, where objects were givensecurity ids and allowed actions were enabled in a way similar to unix, that a model existed that had the same value as that in unix.
join thousands of others, and sign up for naked security's newsletter filed under: apple, featured, malware, vulnerability last week, there was a lot focus on the security of apple macs after the russian security firm, dr web, revealed that they had found a botnet comprising overhalf a million infected mac computers.
windows users also typically update their software when an update is released by microsoft; they know updates mean that vulnerabilities may have been found, and it is safer to update than be exposed.
up until now, virus/malware concerns in my mac environment have been next to none.
i fight windows malware nearly every day as part of my job so i am way more  familiar with the stuff than i care to be.
there were numerous  reasons that it exposed me to potentially more vulnerabilities than it could  have ever found.
but yes, i had really intended the question for the author of the article,  prof. alan woodward!
it is my understanding that macs are definitely now becoming a focus of attention for the authors of malware exactly because they know that they are surrounded by this invulnerability culture and often left unprotected and so they can use them as carriers to inject malware into networks and other systems.
that’s  thanks to built-in defenses in mac os x that keep you safe, without any work on  your part.
perhaps the issue isn't as clear as pc/mac and has to do with other companies having to take responsibility for making operating systems vulnerable.
you might run, for example, a piece of javascript that steals credentials,  or a keylogger, without necessarily attacking the operating system.
those using windows have been aware for a long time that their systems have  vulnerabilities, and so they are much more likely to use some form of  protection such as anti-virus software.
so they windows xp inherited users, software and developers that  assumed admin rights (i.e. the computing world's equivalent of crack addicts).
and yes i have tried sophos "free" anti virus, all it did was flag up some non threats & a piece of malware that seems to have been the product of sophos mac scare tacticsreply i've a bucket of sand if you'd like to borrow it.
"that was not always the case for windows as it was originally based  upon ms-dos."
while i know perfectly secure system, sometimes i wonder if the guys coding their programs even care or notice if they make a system more vulnerable with their apps.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gqb_q8wrl_g good read, but you talk about windows history starting on top of ms dos and security being introduced in xp.
you're always less likely to get hit by cars if you check the road, just like you're less likely to get hit by malware if you check your system, no matter what os you're using.
xp is the successor of  windows 2000 and windows nt, which definitely had a security model built into  the operating system, including file system restrictions in ntfs to secure  read/write/execute permissions.
certainly more sense than the idea your beloved fanboi os could have any security issues.
the attack has left a lingering question: how secure are apple macs?
the large criminal enterprises that create and market these tool kits have now added 'mac support' to their standard product offerings.
it is my understanding that macs are  definitely now becoming a focus of attention for the authors of malware exactly
this most recent mac flashplayer virus was therefore still technically a zero day attack (no patch available) on macs, 42 days after the vulnerability was patched on "buggy and insecure" windows.
ffs most mac users long ago learned that the safest thing for their machines was a no micros**t policy, it removed risk & stopped the performance degradation & instability inherant to poorly designed and developed software from microsoft, who often seemed more intent on changing the macos to suit themselves rather than designing software for the mac (anyone remember the number of system extensions (& vulnerabilities) that installing word on os7 needed?).
follow our team of security experts on twitter for  the latest news about internet security threats.
unix has other simple features, such as storing executable code and data in separate folders.
thanks to a competitor not even letting the  world know their source code was stolen 5 years prior to an announcement, i  can't trust a security company either by default.
to do so is to play roulette.
don't show me this again don't forget you can subscribe to the sophoslabs youtube channel to find  all our latest videos.
follow naked security's graham cluley for the latest security news.
reply i think most of the stuff it found came via a work exchange account i was monitoring at home.
congratulations, you've successfully signed up for our daily news!
i loved the bit about "backdoor trojan  embedded inside boobytrapped word documents "!
this most recent mac flashplayer virus  was therefore still technically a zero day attack (no patch available) on macs,  42 days after the vulnerability was patched on "buggy and insecure"  windows.
these unknown downloads would also need to be able to scan and change the  lowest levels of the system or it isn't protecting all areas.
my understanding is that the early implementation didn't accomplish much  because it was fairly easy to work around it.
again there is quite a bit of  application software that isn't written to utilize aslr.
reply peter j taylor says: april 10, 2012 at 11:51 pm before i retired i worked for meteorological office defence services, who  realised that people did work at home and either emailed or brought it into the  office.
xp is the successor of windows 2000 and windows nt, which definitely had a security model built into the operating system, including file system restrictions in ntfs to secure read/write/execute permissions.
certainly more sense than  the idea your beloved fanboi os could have any security issues. .
reply gandalf says: april 10, 2012 at 11:16 pm windows xp for the desktop came out in 2001.
think  most people developing apps for ios and android give a second thought about  security?
having said that in the last 20 years of using a mac i have been infected 0 times had 0 malware installed and feel safe.
lets face it - all computer users need to stop being complacent and realise that av is essential.
when the large ms-dos/w95/w98 user-base switched to windows xp they  were all used to running with full administrative rights because that was the  way things worked on the older windows family and most software required such  rights.
reply never, ever use your own example of being virus-less for x years as a proof your system is secure.
unix has other simple features, such as storing executable code and data in  separate folders.
and i strongly recommend all mac users to start taking this issue seriously.
mac os users think their systems are somehow inherently  “secure” and hence they are less likely to update as frequently as  windows users, or to use tools such as anti-virus software.
preventing is  better then curing!
don't show me this again already using google+?
adobe flash, java, and a number of other add-in and plug-ins make all computers more vulnerable.
or is the aslr that comes with leopard better than no aslr at all?
what is now catching up with mac os users is that their platform of choice  is now becoming popular enough to be considered worthy of hackers’
i also have sophos anti-virus installed on my mac for protection.
reply g dean says: april 10, 2012 at 5:13 pm the "free"software is a classic bait lol.
a new cookie recipe: the  international chamber of commerce uk cookie guide 41 responses to are macs safer than pcs?
nearly every time i hear about a new vulnerability it isn't due to the os  being vulnerable, it's due to some sloppy coding in some app that was made for  a pc/mac.
reply guess it's time for me to try sophos again on my macs.
even mr cluley's occasional  barbed stabs at macs have only been mildly irritating when it is obvious that  not running a "decent av system" in a business environment is just  plain stupid.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gqb_q8wrl_g alex says: april 10, 2012 at 4:12 pm good read, but you talk about windows history starting on top of ms dos and  security being introduced in xp.
i have run windows 95 without anti virus for more than 10 years without virus of any kind.
mac os users may be "safer" than windows users, simply because  they have fewer attacks focussed on their systems, but they are not more  "secure".
windows on ms dos died with windows 98 se  (or me if you choose to acknowledge its existence).
the 'malware industry' has become very organized over the last few years and most malware is built using standardized exploit tool kits that are purchased on the black market.
does apple's adoption of an inferior aslr with effect from 10.5 leopard mean i would be safer to remain in tiger rather than to upgrade to leopard?
reply phil coates says: april 10, 2012 at 8:24 pm i have to applaud sophos for bringing their av to the mac market.
leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
reply bdm says: april 11, 2012 at 8:18 am since i switched to macpro in 2008 i'vr been using sophos av!
the performance hit from most as well as the way they prevent real work from occurring at times leads me to believe i can rebuild my system once every 2 years with less disruption than installing av software.
chester wisniewski also discussed the presentation on this blog last year.
same goes for web developers.
reply brian m. says: april 10, 2012 at 12:34 pm
thanks to a competitor not even letting the world know their source code was stolen 5 years prior to an announcement, i can't trust a security company either by default.
if you began your career using unix, as i did, one of the things you come  to value is that unix (and hence mac os) has always had a security model built  into the operating system.
but is it in  fact just tidier?
anyone who has installed software onto a windows platform knows that the installed components can be placed in a wide variety of folders, the obscurity of which mean that if you were ever to attempt to unpick the installation manually you’d inevitably end up with some unwanted pieces of code on your machine.
a mac isn’t susceptible to the thousands of viruses plaguing windows-based computers.
do you have a reference to some other info as would love to read it.
microsoft also  implemented the security development lifecycle program to train developers  (their own and third-party) to bake security into the software development  process from the very start.
apple has its part to play by releasing updates rapidly in response to  known vulnerabilities, and users need to make sure they implement those updates  as well asinstalling security software to protect against the coming threat.
i did have in mind desktop oss when i wrote the piece so didn't mention nt.
join thousands of others, and sign up for naked security's newsletter don't show me this again  by prof alan woodward on april 10, 2012 | 157619 41 comments http%3a%2f%2fnakedsecurity.sophos.com%2f2012%2f04%2f10%2fmacs-safer-than-pcs%2f are+macs+safer+than+pcs%3f2012-04-10+09%3a42%3a18prof+alan+woodward http%3a%2f%2fnakedsecurity.sophos.com%2f%3fp%3d157619 filed under: apple, featured, malware, vulnerability last week, there was a lot focus on the security of apple macs after the  russian security firm, dr web, revealed that they had found a botnet comprising  overhalf a million infected mac computers.
a mac os user is less likely to be attacked than a windows user, but that  is nothing to do with the level of vulnerability in the operating system.
os x for the desktop came out in 2001.
"it doesn’t get pc viruses.
for clarification, i should have written that they bought a sophos antivirus licence for every member of staff.
so what i am getting out of this is the best combination is your computer being a mac and your user being intelligent and diligent about putting antivirus and updates on their machine.
patching  any vulnerabilities will ensure that such drive-by attacks will be nullified.
seehttp://www.microsoft.com/security/sdl/.
when you install a program in unix, you typically predict which folders the executables and data will reside.
when you wrote "mac os is based on bsd", you meant "from 2001, mac os has been the os x flavour, based on bsd."
macs were becoming infected with flashback malware after users were redirected to a rogue website from a compromised site.
don't show me this again on linkedin?
i also have sophos  anti-virus installed on my mac for protection.
for windows, this has spawned a whole host of tools for the uninstall and  clean-up process.
follow naked security's graham cluley for the latest  security news.
this  was one of the main innovations to come out the trusworthy computing  initiative.
the corollary of this is that it is easy to completely remove an installation.
i would never keep a computer - whether mac or windows - without virus protection.
think most people developing apps for ios and android give a second thought about security?
the "free"software is a classic bait lol.
when the large ms-dos/w95/w98 user-base switched to windows xp they were all used to running with full administrative rights because that was the way things worked on the older windows family and most software required such rights.
" actually, no city-support says: april 10, 2012 at 1:32 pm ha finally someone is talking about the insecurities of the apple os, how  safe can you be if you leave your house unlocked?
i'd  guess they don't even notice, and probably don't care since they've made their  buck, and they can pass the responsibility on to the guys who have to patch the  operating system to block a new exploit created by sloppy coders.
my guess is that we'll see an explosion of mac infections as miscreants around the world upgrade their malware to use these latest exploit kits, seeking the newest technology and cool new features.
over 100,000 people are part of the sophos community on facebook.
however, the lua rights model has existed in nt from the start.
anyone who has installed software onto a windows platform knows that the  installed components can be placed in a wide variety of folders, the obscurity  of which mean that if you were ever to attempt to unpick the installation  manually you’d inevitably end up with some unwanted pieces of code on  your machine.
that sort of half-answers my question, as i get the impression that leopard with aslr is marginally better than tiger with only the original os x protection.
please come back later and try again.
macs were becoming infected with flashback malware after users were  redirected to a rogue website from a compromised site.
perhaps the issue isn't as clear as  pc/mac and has to do with other companies having to take responsibility for  making operating systems vulnerable.
it was evidently only because i was prudent, as when my  father get the same computer, the system became infected beyond repair in less  than ten minutes.
those using windows have been aware for a long time that their systems have vulnerabilities, and so they are much more likely to use some form of protection such as anti-virus software.
ten years ago, when windows gained a bad reputation for security, microsoft  responded by introducing itstrustworthy computing initiative.
i remember  fondly the seamless & non intrusive nature of disinfectant on os7 compared  with the intrusive nature of norton & sophos products on the pcs i have to  use it speaks volumes about the scare tactics & marketing of the security  companies who have managed to create a major industry out of poorly developed  software by micros**t reply april 10, 2012 at 10:11 pm i agree with you on norton.
that wouldn't have added any words to the article - plus you could then have left out two whole paragraphs about windows not having file permissions, and unix having them built-in.
reply it is of course peoples perrogative to stick their head in the sand and ignore the warnings from sophos who, you could legitimately argue have a potential vested interest in scaring mac users (although their mac av product is presently free for home use!).
i fight windows malware nearly every day as part of my job so i am way more familiar with the stuff than i care to be.
even if it's in a false way!
i think what all of this exemplifies is two populations of users (mac os and windows) that have developed very different attitudes to security.
windows on ms dos died with windows 98 se (or me if you choose to acknowledge its existence).
or is the aslr that comes  with leopard better than no aslr at all?
" actually, noreply ha finally someone is talking about the insecurities of the apple os, how safe can you be if you leave your house unlocked?
perhaps the two parties should get together and remedy this situation.
by being in denial, i feel you potentially put others as well as yourself at risk.
apple has traditionally marketed its systems as being more secure than those running microsoft windows, but how true is that?
however, the lua rights model has existed in nt  from the start.
if web developers gave a  damn about security something as simple to prevent as sql injection wouldn't be  so common.
but is it in fact just tidier?
that makes perfect sense.
unfortunately, apple’s implementation is not as advanced as that in windows, and hence it does not provide the same degree of protection.
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:               more videos this way more... try out our free trials and demos
" my understanding is that apple was slow to implement aslr but that the  current version of os x has caught up.
because they know that they are surrounded by this invulnerability culture and  often left unprotected and so they can use them as carriers to inject malware  into networks and other systems.
read his personal blog at www.profwoodward.org and follow him on twitter at @profwoodward.
"https://www.apple.com/why-mac/better-os/ lot of people is getting this so wrong!
"https://www.apple.com/why-mac/better-os/ lot of people is getting this so wrong!reply
at that point you  are trusting the security measures of the vendor to protect your system from  infection through their software.
follow our team of security experts on twitter for the latest news about internet security threats.
one of the reasons why i only have  macs running at home - too fatiguing to deal with malware 24/7.
whatever the new security conscious approach from micros**t entails, the company will always be associated with poorly designed, buggy and insecure software, and this reputation is well deserved.
they realised that this was a potential source of infection, so they  bought a licence for home use by every single member of staff.
reply ohlmann says: april 11, 2012 at 2:55 pm never, ever use your own example of being virus-less for x years as a proof  your system is secure.
what is now catching up with mac os users is that their platform of choice is now becoming popular enough to be considered worthy of hackers’ efforts.
you're set for a very, very long time.
have you seen this parrot?
i remember fondly the seamless & non intrusive nature of disinfectant on os7 compared with the intrusive nature of norton & sophos products on the pcs i have to use it speaks volumes about the scare tactics & marketing of the security companies who have managed to create a major industry out of poorly developed software by micros**treply i agree with you on norton.
certainly my beloved os has lots of security issues, but it is beloved because it works reliably and is easy to use.
for an assessment of the current state of os x and ios security i'd also  read anything on the topic by charlie miller and dino dai zovi.
culter previously developed  vms and nt drew heavily on that earlier experience.
along with never downloading things from web sites, or emails ¬ using word, this works for me.
they get a bigger bang for their buck, to borrow a phrase from the military.
reply a change of mindset and some extra security will go a long way for the (in the most polite way) ignorant apple product user.
if you want a smooth secure user experience there is one golden rule, do not buy any micros**t productsreply "so far apple have done a good job patching vulnerabilities" - apple were, what, 6 weeks later with the current java patches for os x than the patches for all other operating systems.
javascript code was used to load a java-applet which exploited a vulnerability (since patched).
reply april 10, 2012 at 2:45 pm there appear to be some factual errors or at least misleading statements in  this article.
reply april 11, 2012 at 10:36 am ummmm... linux ftw?
up until now, virus/malware concerns in my mac environment  have been next to none.
so far apple have done a good job patching vulnerabilities & it is not necessary for mac users to degrade their user experience by running intrusive and performance degrading security products.
" sids have existed in the windws nt family of operating systems from the beginning.
i will not dispute the merits of macs over pcs especially in the area of security but neither they nor apple are perfect and i strongly recommend all mac users to start taking this issue seriously.
it  has everything to do with the fact that over 80% of the personal computers in  use run the microsoft windows operating system.
so they windows xp inherited users, software and developers that assumed admin rights (i.e. the computing world's equivalent of crack addicts).
my understanding is that the early implementation didn't accomplish much because it was fairly easy to work around it.
these unknown downloads would also need to be able to scan and change the lowest levels of the system or it isn't protecting all areas.
apple has to wait for sun/oracle to release information regarding patches and updates to java before they can fix it in their implementation.
does apple's adoption  of an inferior aslr with effect from 10.5 leopard mean i would be safer to  remain in tiger rather than to upgrade to leopard?
don't show me this again don't forget you can subscribe to the sophoslabs youtube channel to find all our latest videos.
if you're new here, you might want to subscribe to our rss feed  for updates.
that sort of half-answers my question, as i  get the impression that leopard with aslr is marginally better than tiger with  only the original os x protection.
this was one of the main innovations to come out the trusworthy computing initiative.
their software that they give away for free.
the major security issue associated with windows relates to software development and users: 1.
it will generally do that silently to avoid constantly nagging the  user.
sorry, that email doesn't look right to us so we haven't added it to our  list.
nt was wriiten from the ground up by dave cutler who was hired away from digital.
do you have a reference to some other info as would love to  read it.
nothing close to the infections found in windows.
reply jon fukumoto says: april 10, 2012 at 2:33 pm there's no such thing as a 100% secure os.
kind regards alan says: april 10, 2012 at 4:09 pm i take it you mean alan woodward.
i do checks for  updates at least once a week, and i keep sophos anti-virus updated.
now is the time to prepare, rather than try to react, when the inevitable  onslaught begins.
if i now turn off java in my browsers i  really do feel quite safe....
xp was just the version version of his stream made to be consumer friendly for home users.
as to aslr i had understood that it was not going to be fully implemented until snow leopard and that what there is at present hasn't changed much in 5 years.
your article compares windows and os x. which windows do you think we thought you meant?
i've run sophos on my macs since 1999, and it has never reported any irrelevant garbage: just a handful of infected emails in all that time.
view all  posts by prof alan woodward popular
follow @profwoodward free anti-virus for mac download sophos anti-virus for mac home edition image credit: pcruciatti / shutterstock.com tags: apple, flashback, mac os x, malware, microsoft, windows macs safer, no.
the  large criminal enterprises that create and market these tool kits have now  added 'mac support' to their standard product offerings.
a new cookie recipe: the  international chamber of commerce uk cookie guide are macs safer than pcs?
for example, since vista was introduced in 2007, windows has had address  space layout randomisation (aslr) which is implemented so as to obscure most of  what an attacker needs to conduct, for example, shell code injection attacks.
we're adding your address to our list...
reply brian says: april 11, 2012 at 8:18 pm there are no decent av systems though.
that was not always the case for windows as it was originally based upon  ms-dos.
now is the time to prepare, rather than try to react, when the inevitable onslaught begins.
the performance hit from most as well as  the way they prevent real work from occurring at times leads me to believe i  can rebuild my system once every 2 years with less disruption than installing  av software.
they realised that this was a potential source of infection, so they bought a licence for home use by every single member of staff.
likewise, you might exploit a vulnerability in a third party application, as happened recently when abackdoor trojan embedded inside boobytrapped word documents successfully ran on macs.
that they  don't in fact sell at all.
as well as preventing developers inadvertently building this into their applications by adding safeguards to the compilers, microsoft also introduced memory protection mechanisms within their operating systems.
what was it?reply i bought a new pc and went online without virus protection.
chester wisniewski also  discussed the presentation on this blog last year.
the  worst part in my job is dealing with systems people bring in because they  "work from home" and it's our job to clean up those messes too.
as to aslr i had understood that it was not going to be fully  implemented until snow leopard and that what there is at present hasn't changed  much in 5 years.
follow @profwoodward download sophos anti-virus  for mac home edition image credit: pcruciatti / shutterstock.com tags: apple, flashback, mac os x, malware, microsoft, windows take  our poll  have you seen this parrot?
those using mac os have, perhaps, been lulled into a false sense of  security.
that's almost 20 years  ago and more than 8 years before the release of windows xp.
with this increase in scale, it's natural for them to expand their market to cover macs in addition to pcs.
i should have used a different name.
reply april 10, 2012 at 6:05 pm mac os + faronics deep freeze
wow, sophos continues its "scare the mac users into buying unecessary security software " campaign.
here's the reference for aslr in lion https://threatpost.com/en_us/blogs/apple-revamps-security-os-x-lion-072111 also see "macs in the age of the apt", a talk given at last year's blackhat.
maybe the time has now come?
this is where regions of computer memory that should not be used for executing code are misused by rogue software.
check your inbox soon, we've sent you an email.
like g dean, the "charms" of microsoft elude me,  but as long as the machines are protected and the only worry is the convoluted  logic behind the operating system - i can live with them - albeit with having  to pay for "professional" help which is not needed on the macs.
kind regardsreply i take it you mean alan woodward.
anti virus software is a  personal choice and not always needed.
reply i have to applaud sophos for bringing their av to the mac market.
but you really shouldn't drink  it.
initially, one of the biggest threats was considered by microsoft to be buffer overflow.
when running a competing product, it never found anything on my system.
xp was just the version version of his stream  made to be consumer friendly for home users.
along with never downloading things  from web sites, or emails &not using word, this works for me.
there were numerous reasons that it exposed me to potentially more vulnerabilities than it could have ever found.
one of the reasons why i only have macs running at home - too fatiguing to deal with malware 24/7.
if you want a smooth secure user experience there  is one golden rule, do not buy any micros**t products reply jessie s's friend says: april 10, 2012 at 1:45 pm "so far apple have done a good job patching vulnerabilities" -  apple were, what, 6 weeks later with the current java patches for os x than the  patches for all other operating systems.
by being in denial, i feel you potentially put  others as well as yourself at risk.
os x for the desktop came out  in 2001.
microsoft does provide  a tool to manually force such apps to use it (along with other types of memory  protection).
ffs most mac users long ago  learned that the safest thing for their machines was a no micros**t policy, it  removed risk & stopped the performance degradation & instability  inherant to poorly designed and developed software from microsoft, who often  seemed more intent on changing the macos to suit themselves rather than  designing software for the mac (anyone remember the number of system extensions  (& vulnerabilities) that installing word on os7 needed?).
the first version was releaseed in mid-1993.
recent versions of windows have been attempts to force third-party developers  to write code that will run in standard user rights and wean windows users of  their admin rights addiction.
and yes  i have tried sophos "free" anti virus, all it did was flag up some  non threats & a piece of malware that seems to have been the product of  sophos mac scare tactics reply april 10, 2012 at 2:35 pm i've a bucket of sand if you'd like to borrow it.
peter j taylor says: april 10, 2012 at 11:54 pm for clarification, i should have written that they bought a sophos  antivirus licence for every member of staff.
jim says: april 10, 2012 at 2:39 pm imo, mac owners should be very concerned.
on my macbook i have auto log on disabled,  and i have the firewall enabled and stealth mode on.
apple has to wait for sun/oracle to release information  regarding patches and updates to java before they can fix it in their  implementation.
if web developers gave a damn about security something as simple to prevent as sql injection wouldn't be so common.
when you wrote "mac os is based on bsd", you meant "from  2001, mac os has been the os x flavour, based on bsd."
and the windows nt family.
(ppc g5s cannot accept any os later  than leopard.)
ten years ago, when windows gained a bad reputation for security, microsoft responded by introducing itstrustworthy computing initiative.
reply alan, can you please answer this for me?
incidentally i also have a laptop with 10.7 lion, but see no reason to  replace the desktop mac any time soon.
when running a  competing product, it never found anything on my system.
on my macbook i have auto log on disabled, and i have the firewall enabled and stealth mode on.
the concept of read, write and execute for various executables and  data, as implemented in unix, is simple to understand and has stood unix  systems in good stead for many years.
even if there are no known  thieves in the area?
"flashback would now have infected 1% of macs, making flashback roughly as common for mac as conficker was for windows" macworld.com/article/116625…— mikko hypponen (@mikko) april 06, 2012
he has worked for the uk  government and still provides advice on issues including cybersecurity, covert  communications and forensic computing.
reply "intrusive and performance degrading security products.
apple originally did their own jvm when sun basically told them it was not worth their effort to support the platform.
incidentally i also have a laptop with 10.7 lion, but see no reason to replace the desktop mac any time soon.
patching any vulnerabilities will ensure that such drive-by attacks will be nullified.
see http://thehackernews.com/2012/04/flashback-checke...reply imo, mac owners should be very concerned.
of course there is no such thing as a  totally secure system, but the clunky design of windows & the whole  retarded user experience forced by using windows, means that users are more  likely to be trapped into downloading and running malware.
mac os acquired aslr in late 2007 (mac os x v10.5, aka "leopard").
mac os, the apple mac operating system, is based upon the berkley software distribution (bsd) of unix, surrounded by a nice graphical user interface.
so what i am getting out of this is the best combination is your computer  being a mac and your user being intelligent and diligent about putting  antivirus and updates on their machine.
apple has traditionally marketed its systems as being more secure than  those running microsoft windows, but how true is that?
always tricky  in 1000 words.
what i want from a system is functionality, something that would be degraded if i started believing & acting on all the sophos hype!
reply g dean says: april 10, 2012 at 5:26 pm as someone forced to use micros**t products at work for 20 years &  having my productivity diminished by the experience i offer no apologies for  not enthusing about the micros**t experience.
"that was not always the case for windows as it was originally based upon ms-dos."
i've also disabled java applets  in safari, as well as having the latest version of java.
i have a desktop ppc g5 imac with os 10.4.11, tiger.
the thing that surprised many of us was the scale of the botnet.
microsoft also implemented the security development lifecycle program to train developers (their own and third-party) to bake security into the software development process from the very start.
that gives you an os that is targeted  less frequently and a user that knows they are not invincible and updates their  machine and av software regularly.
the corollary of this is  that it is easy to completely remove an installation.
it was evidently only because i was prudent, as when my father get the same computer, the system became infected beyond repair in less than ten minutes.
see http://thehackernews.com/2012/04/flashback-checke...
take a look at cripin cowan's pdc talk from 2008 "windows 7: best practices for developing for windows standard user" http://blogs.microsoft.co.il/blogs/bursteg/archiv... 2.
fundamentally, there is no reason why macs should not be targeted using malware in the same way that viruses, trojans and worms are built to target windows systems.
i do checks for updates at least once a week, and i keep sophos anti-virus updated.
reply there are no decent av systems though.
reply searbet says: april 10, 2012 at 2:57 pm guess it's time for me to try sophos again on my macs.
certainly my beloved os  has lots of security issues, but it is beloved because it works reliably and is  easy to use.
here's the reference for aslr in lion https://threatpost.com/en_us/blogs/apple-revamps-security-os-x-lion-072111 also see "macs in the age of the apt", a talk given at last year's  blackhat.
i'm a different alan, the one that posted  a couple of earlier comments.
you're always less likely to  get hit by cars if you check the road, just like you're less likely to get hit  by malware if you check your system, no matter what os you're using.
that gives you an os that is targeted less frequently and a user that knows they are not invincible and updates their machine and av software regularly.
reply windows xp for the desktop came out in 2001.
however, microsoft took a long look at the threat and made a conscious effort to evolve their operating systems to counter it.
always tricky in 1000 words.
reply w glazier says: april 10, 2012 at 4:43 pm what i notice is security issues are brought about by other companies when  you add their programs to your system.
" sids have existed in the windws nt family of operating systems from the  beginning.
however, microsoft took a long  look at the threat and made a conscious effort to evolve their operating  systems to counter it.
steve jobs came up with some amazing products but security was never big on  the feature list.
even though nt implemented a security model similar to vms and unix (nt actually had a posix subsystem and currently supports an interix subsystem)
a mac isn’t susceptible  to the thousands of viruses plaguing windows-based computers.
i would never keep a computer -  whether mac or windows - without virus protection.
aslr was first implemented in leopard but wasn't fully implemented until  lion.
apple originally did their own jvm when sun  basically told them it was not worth their effort to support the platform.
i have nothing against windows pcs as i have to use them every day, it's  because of that i know how unrelenting the updates and patches are :-).
reply part of the problem is that the mac osx version of java is not supported directly by sun/oracle.
there's no such thing as a 100% secure os.
don't show  me this again hi fellow twitter user!
the 'malware industry' has become  very organized over the last few years and most malware is built using  standardized exploit tool kits that are purchased on the black market.
what i notice is security issues are brought about by other companies when you add their programs to your system.
you might run, for example, a piece of javascript that steals credentials, or a keylogger, without necessarily attacking the operating system.
if i now turn off java in my browsers i really do feel quite safe....
so, mac os “feels” like it should be more secure.
however, keep in mind that nothing is perfect, so be very careful of which websites you go to.
it has everything to do with the fact that over 80% of the personal computers in use run the microsoft windows operating system.
i see no reason for those companies not to bear part of the burden to keep all computers secure by cleaning up their code.
your article compares windows and os x. which windows do you think we  thought you meant?
required fields are marked * name * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:                 about the author professor alan woodward is a visiting professor at  theuniversity of surrey's department of computing.
you didn't mention what the files were infected with.
"apple said it planned to improve items such as aslr in its next release of mac os, but some five years later we are still waiting.
have used sophos for about 15 years on a mixed mac and pc network (we are a printer) and have not had an issue.
as these criminal enterprises have grown, so have their r&d budgets.
again there is quite a bit of application software that isn't written to utilize aslr.
join the naked security discussion group and connect with your peers in the security industry.
i'm a different alan, the one that posted a couple of earlier comments.
reply april 10, 2012 at 2:33 pm their is a flashback checker
i have nothing against windows pcs as i have to use them every day, it's because of that i know how unrelenting the updates and patches are :-).reply as apple says: "it doesn’t get pc viruses.
take a look at cripin cowan's pdc talk from 2008 "windows  7: best practices for developing for windows standard user" http://blogs.microsoft.co.il/blogs/bursteg/archiv... 2.
even if there are no known thieves in the area?
microsoft does provide a tool to manually force such apps to use it (along with other types of memory protection).reply
thus, apple's jvm is usually behind any other platform in  regards to fixes and/or versions.
what you don't say is that there are two windows families,  ms-dos, w95, w98 etc.
from the start getting third-party developers and end-users to use it was  difficult.
so far apple have  done a good job patching vulnerabilities & it is not necessary for mac  users to degrade their user experience by running intrusive and performance  degrading security products.
three weeks ago i looked at a clients personal mac, 1500 infected files, she was very surprised and said "but macs don't have viruses" a very expensive mistake.
for example, since vista was introduced in 2007, windows has had address space layout randomisation (aslr) which is implemented so as to obscure most of what an attacker needs to conduct, for example, shell code injection attacks.
the performance of av systems is dismal.
reply april 10, 2012 at 2:33 pm alan, can you please answer this for me?
at that point you are trusting the security measures of the vendor to protect your system from infection through their software.
"a security model had previously existed but it wasn't until xp, where  objects were given security ids and allowed actions were enabled in a way  similar to unix, that a model existed that had the same value as that in  unix.
those building malware would rather attack the vast majority of the users.
of course i run anti virus  software on a regular basis just in case.
alan says: april 10, 2012 at 3:11 pm @ g dean if you were spouting more than hot air you'd know that apple is trying to  develop a program similar to microsoft's sdl and that apple has actually hired  away security expertise from microsoft and other companies over the last couple  of years to help address their on-going security problem.
aslr was first implemented in leopard but wasn't fully implemented until lion.
a pdf of the slides are online if you search.
reply g dean says: april 10, 2012 at 12:55 pm wow, sophos continues its "scare the mac users into buying unecessary  security software " campaign.
here's a video to take you back to the bygone era of apple security nostalgia.
(ppc g5s cannot accept any os later than leopard.)
anyway, i take a go at answering.
i get  everyone i know to install it, it's free, no longer slow downs your mac or  interfere with normal operation and is great at helping me not pass on dodgy  emails to my windows brethren !
three weeks ago i looked at a clients personal mac, 1500  infected files, she was very surprised and said "but macs don't have  viruses" a very expensive mistake.
that’s thanks to built-in defenses in mac os x that keep you safe, without any work on your part.
mac os users may be "safer" than windows users, simply because they have fewer attacks focussed on their systems, but they are not more "secure".
mikko hypponen, chief research officer at f-secure, put it very well when he said that, proportionally, the flashback trojan was as widespread amongst macs as the notorious conficker worm had been amongst windows-based pcs.
with thelast three years seeing a growth in mac os malware in excess of 200%, mac os users need to start adopting a different mindset or they will be caught out.
however, keep in mind that nothing is perfect, so be very careful of which  websites you go to.
but yes, i had really intended the question for the author of the article, prof. alan woodward!reply their is a flashback checker
that they don't in fact sell at all.
i get everyone i know to install it, it's free, no longer slow downs your mac or interfere with normal operation and is great at helping me not pass on dodgy emails to my windows brethren !
those using mac os have, perhaps, been lulled into a false sense of security.
the major security issue associated with windows relates to software  development and users: 1.
reply david says: april 10, 2012 at 2:14 pm i bought a new pc and went online without virus protection.
recent versions of windows have been attempts to force third-party developers to write code that will run in standard user rights and wean windows users of their admin rights addiction.
unfortunately, apple’s implementation is not as  advanced as that in windows, and hence it does not provide the same degree of  protection.
the worst part in my job is dealing with systems people bring in because they "work from home" and it's our job to clean up those messes too.
fundamentally, there is no reason why macs should not be targeted using  malware in the same way that viruses, trojans and worms are built to target  windows systems.
of course i run anti virus software on a regular basis just in case.
you should  therefore have written, "windows is based on vms," meaning,  "from 2001, desktop windows has been the windows nt flavour, based on  vms."
apple has its part to play by releasing updates rapidly in response to known vulnerabilities, and users need to make sure they implement those updates as well asinstalling security software to protect against the coming threat.
reply john says: april 11, 2012 at 2:10 pm part of the problem is that the mac osx version of java is not supported  directly by sun/oracle.
mikko hypponen, chief research officer at f-secure, put it very well when  he said that, proportionally, the flashback trojan was as widespread amongst  macs as the notorious conficker worm had been amongst windows-based pcs.
that wouldn't have added any words to the article - plus you could then  have left out two whole paragraphs about windows not having file permissions,  and unix having them built-in.
lets face it - all computer users need to stop being complacent and realise  that av is essential.
windows users also typically update  their software when an update is released by microsoft; they know updates mean  that vulnerabilities may have been found, and it is safer to update than be  exposed.
you should therefore have written, "windows is based on vms," meaning, "from 2001, desktop windows has been the windows nt flavour, based on vms."
before i retired i worked for meteorological office defence services, who realised that people did work at home and either emailed or brought it into the office.
please come back  later and try again.
i loved the bit about "backdoor trojan embedded inside boobytrapped word documents "!
check  your inbox soon, we've sent you an email.
don't show me this again sorry, something happened and we couldn't sign you up.
sorry, that email doesn't look right to us so we haven't added it to our list.
nt was wriiten from the ground  up by dave cutler who was hired away from digital.
mac os users think their systems are somehow inherently “secure” and hence they are less likely to update as frequently as windows users, or to use tools such as anti-virus software.
"flashback would now have infected 1% of macs, making flashback  roughly as common for mac as conficker was for windows"  macworld.com/article/116625… mikko hypponen (@mikko)  april 06, 2012
their free software.
my guess is that we'll see an explosion of mac infections as miscreants  around the world upgrade their malware to use these latest exploit kits,  seeking the newest technology and cool new features.
i'd guess they don't even notice, and probably don't care since they've made their buck, and they can pass the responsibility on to the guys who have to patch the operating system to block a new exploit created by sloppy coders.
it will generally do that silently to avoid constantly nagging the user.
i've also disabled java applets in safari, as well as having the latest version of java.
i will not dispute the merits of macs over  pcs especially in the area of security but neither they nor apple are perfect
reply there appear to be some factual errors or at least misleading statements in this article.
even though nt implemented a security model similar to vms and unix (nt  actually had a posix subsystem and currently supports an interix subsystem)
since i switched to macpro in 2008 i'vr been using sophos av!
in less than 1 hour i was infected by a malicious site.
other companies have since adopted this development model but a lot  of the software still isn't deevloped with any consideration to security.
don't show me this again
it's time to start laying blame where it really lies.
other companies have since adopted this development model but a lot of the software still isn't deevloped with any consideration to security.
by default am antivirus system must download and install updates.