plus, there’s always linux.
of course, this doesn’t matter much with mobile platform games (likeangry birds).
i also don’t like the hardware control that apple wants.
i just don’t see how spending the extra money on a mac is worth it.
myviewsonic  is great for games, reading, movies and detailed design work and is crisper  than my cinema display.
anyone  (including that guy behind the counter in best buy) can swap out any part of  your pc for the most recent edition.
no one but designers will care for this bit but it  must be mentioned: font management (like auto activation of fonts) is much  better on the mac.
lean towards a mac if you’re planning to do design work.
sure,  pc’s areexactly the same in this respect but as a designer  you’re probably already using a mac so maximize your business dollars;  stick with what you know.
home » digital life »
in this penultimate post to the series closer, i want to clear up a major question: mac or pc?
lots of them don’t come out for  it and the ones that do don’t get a ton of backend support for odd  crashes.
lots of them don’t come out for it and the ones that do don’t get a ton of backend support for odd crashes.
the only time that becomes problematic is when a major change comes along (like intel’s dual core chip) which changes the face of pc tech.
so if mac users are having problems it’s not something that can  turn the name of the company into a pariah.
i do quite a bit of design work and i love the adobe suite on my pc.
just remember that apple has some serious security issues.
the cinema display cost over a thousand; the viewsonic cost three hundred.
if you want upgradeability go with a pc; mac’s have a time stamp that  lasts as long as the next conference in june or the christmas season.
both macs and pc’s are ridiculously easy to use and they each come with their own learning curve.
if you do go that route, invest in antivirus and a decent firewall like little snitch.
both macs and pc’s are ridiculously easy to use and they each come  with their own learning curve.
if you’re planning to play the most recent video games you’re  going to want to steer clear from a mac.
anyone (including that guy behind the counter in best buy) can swap out any part of your pc for the most recent edition.
with web fonts on the grow, that can change.
thoughts on the christian life as we sojourn together through the modern world posted by rey on dec 21, 2011 in digital life | 3 comments i’ve already noted that you need to figure out your priorities with your new digital bible.
i’ve said it before: if you’re going to just use the thing for  surfing the web, writing emails and maybe posting on your blog spending a  boatload of money on anything expensive is a waste.
this is  why you’ll have tofocus on your usage list.
————————- read the next and final post in this series: a successful hunt.
this is why you’ll have tofocus on your usage list.
apart from gaming i think a lot of it comes down to 3 things: money, taste and what you are used to.
of course, this doesn’t  matter much with mobile platform games (likeangry birds).
shop around for a monitor because both macs  and pc’s can use them (though mac’s usually with an adapter on  everything but an imac which has a monitor built in) and it’s the one  piece of equipment that might probably outlast your system.
shop around for a monitor because both macs and pc’s can use them (though mac’s usually with an adapter on everything but an imac which has a monitor built in) and it’s the one piece of equipment that might probably outlast your system.
no one but designers will care for this bit but it must be mentioned: font management (like auto activation of fonts) is much better on the mac.
the cinema display cost over a thousand; the viewsonic  cost three hundred.
never miss another post again... receive every new post in your inbox wordpress template by elegant wordpress themes
the only factor that has held me back is the price.
apple’s monitors, though pretty, aren’t all that great  considering their steep price tag.
ease of use, security, and stability of the operating system being the main reasons.
myviewsonic is great for games, reading, movies and detailed design work and is crisper than my cinema display.
macs make up a small segment of video game producer’s market  share
————————- good article rey.
sure, pc’s areexactly the same in this respect but as a designer you’re probably already using a mac so maximize your business dollars; stick with what you know.
those very minor tasks (sorry they are) don’t necessitate all thatcranking power.
but then again, that mightjust mean a tablet—although not necessarily an ipad (which will still require a computer to set it up).
those very minor tasks  (sorry they are) don’t necessitate all thatcranking power.
the only time that becomes problematic is  when a major change comes along (like intel’s dual core chip) which  changes the face of pc tech.
if you want upgradeability go with a pc; mac’s have a time stamp that lasts as long as the next conference in june or the christmas season.
if you’re planning to play the most recent video games you’re going to want to steer clear from a mac.
macs make up a small segment of video game producer’s market share so if mac users are having problems it’s not something that can turn the name of the company into a pariah.
apple’s monitors, though pretty, aren’t all that great considering their steep price tag.
in this penultimate post to the series closer, i want  to clear up a major question: mac or pc?
i certainly agree that competition between the mac & pc platforms is healthy.
i’ve said it before: if you’re going to just use the thing for surfing the web, writing emails and maybe posting on your blog spending a boatload of money on anything expensive is a waste.
the hunt: mac  or pc the hunt: mac or pc posted by rey on dec 21, 2011 in digital life | 3 comments i’ve already noted that you need to figure out your priorities with  your new digital bible.
i think both systems are good and they both make each other better.
for the last 20 years i’ve used windows based pcs, but recently i have been tempted to switch over to the mac.
don’t believe the fan-boy hype.
but then  again, that mightjust mean a tablet—although not necessarily an ipad  (which will still require a computer to set it up).