* which version of macos you're using.
these viruses are not known to be in circulation.
under 7.0.1, the mac may be unbootable.
doesn't  spread under system 7.
reader questions & answers on this topic!
his program merryxmaswatcher 2.0 was very popular and still can eradicate the most common two strains, merryxmas and merry2xmas.
a likely symptom of corrupted pram is a  problem with date and time (but could be a symptom of a corrupted system file).
some of the "totally witless user's guide to......." books dealing with security in general include information on pc -and-
i am aware of at least one instance of a mac diskette which, when read on a pc running a utility for reading mac-formatted disks after being infected with a boot-sector infector, became unreadable as a consequence of the boot track infection.
8.6 contact details --------------------
secondary distribution of infected documents may result  in: * civil action - for instance, inadvertent distribution of an infected  document to external organisations may be in breach of contractual obligations  * legal action in terms of breach of data-protection legislation such as the uk  data protection act or the european data protection directive.
disinfectant has been available up to now from the following sources, but this may not continue to be the case.:
this article by paul ducklin of sophos explains the eicar test file: .
the first four  variants are not known to be in circulation.
again this  applies to windows emulation; however, most virus protection and detection  products are only tested in an english language environment, and may cause  problems on non-english systems.
the focus on these two groups tends to be  ibm-compatible, but mac issues are certainly aired.
* cryptographic checksummers use an encryption  algorithm to lessen the risk of being fooled by a virus that targets that  particular checksummer.
between 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on the sixth and twelfth day of any month, the virus will try to delete all non-application files on the startup disk.
if you get an error message, try the first part of the url, e.g.  and drill down from there.]
sales are not retail, but direct or through the sophos distributor network.
++this section may vanish in the near future, or at least contract.
not only do these versions not only understand embedded macros, but they can't read the word 6 file format unaided.
at the time of  the longstanding second-to-last upgrade of disinfectant (version 3.6 in early  1995), there were no known macro viruses in the wild, apart from hypercard  infectors.
tel: +44 (0)1296 318700 usa tel: +1  781-273-7400, 1-888-drsolomon compuserve: go drsolomon web:
displays the message "dukakis for president", then deletes itself, so not often seen.
nav, sam, and virex offer  checksumming/integrity checking (detecting possible infection by unknown  viruses, by monitoring changes in infectable files) - the correct checksums or  fingerprints for individual files are kept in a database file.
7.3 mac trojan horses  ----------------------
it reportedly sends out private information while running in  the background.
lots of other useful files.
thanks to bruce burrell, michael wright, peter gersmann, david miller, ladd van tol, eric hildum, jeremy goldman, kevin white, bill jackson, robert slade, robin dover, and john norstad for their comments and suggestions.
payload is either beeping or (nvir a) saying "don't panic" if macintalk is installed.
windows 95 users should be aware that scanprot is not recommended for use with ms word 7.0a for windows with internal detection enabled, as these two tools will cancel each other out.
7.1 mac-specific system and file infectors  7.2 hypercard infectors 7.3 mac trojan horses 7.4 macro viruses, trojans,  variants 7.5 other operating systems, emulation on a mac 7.6 autostart 9805  worms 7.7 esperanto.4733 8.0
some of these are pc-specific, rather than mac-specific, while some have no basis in reality on any system.
* generic - catch-all name for antivirus software that doesn't know about individual viruses, but attempts to detect viruses by detecting virus-like code, behaviour, or changes in files containing executable code.
[dh] the following varieties are listed below: 7.1 mac-specific  system and file infectors 7.2 hypercard infectors 7.3 mac trojans 7.4 macro  viruses, trojans, variants 7.5 other operating systems, emulation on a mac 7.6  autostart 9805 worms 7.7
this section will be improved when and if i have time.
nor is there the same degree of urgency about  the mac virus field, though the risk element may be somewhat underestimated in  general, at present.
worms  ------------------------- autostart 9805 is not a virus, but a worm: that is,  it replicates by copying itself, but doesn't attach itself parasitically to a  host program.
a likely symptom of corrupted pram is a problem with date and time (but could be a symptom of a corrupted system file).
5.1 computer virus faqs  ------------------------
* list any error messages or alerts that have appeared.
it's possible to download them in acrobat and in some cases other formats from:  where you can also order hardcopy and cd versions.
virus identity updates are  available from the web between monthly cd-roms.
office 97/98 include limited detection of a handful of known viruses during upconversion of macros.
while these effects may be devastating, trojans are usually very traceable to  their point of entry.
it differs from a destructive virus in that it doesn't reproduce, (though  this distinction is by no means universally accepted).
united  states customer care: voice +1 408 988 3832 fax +1 408 970 9727 fax-back  automated response system +1 408 988 3034 bbs +1 408 988 4004 america online  keyword:
these are often unsubtle and immediate in their effects: while these effects may be devastating, trojans are usually very traceable to their point of entry.
++intego has a  limited-function french demo of rival, "minirival."
can damage applications so that they can't be 100% repaired.
(i'm paraphrasing from memory: i may well check out exactly what it says for the next update of the faq.)
tracker init and delprotect init, both by ioannis galidakis, were first released on 19-nov-98.
all known macro viruses,  some only found in research labs, some in the wild.
next faq release, maybe.
by david harley version 1.6b:
infects application files and the finder.
if you're using word, it may be critical to know whether you're using version 6 or later, or an earlier version.
copyright on this document remains with the author(s), and all rights are reserved.
so far, compressed archives must be decompressed before scanning; i am assured that archive scanning will be in future versions.
however, the series has been re-vamped since i acquired my copies, and this may be less than just.
newsgroups: alt.comp.virus ,comp.virus,comp.sys.mac.apps,comp.sys.mac.misc,comp.sys.mac.system,alt.answers ,comp.answers,news.answers subject: viruses and the mac faq followup-to:  alt.comp.virus,comp.virus summary: why viruses are a mac problem, too....
i don't know of a macro virus  with a mac-specific payload that actually works at present, but such a payload  is entirely possible.
takes two forms, 'init' resource id '33' in an extension named "\001graphics accelerator" and an 'mdef' resource id '1' to '255'.
which applications you're using, and which version.
they can, of course, spread across platforms simply by copying  infected files from one system to another.
mbdf  (a,b): originated from the tetracycle, tetricycle or  "tetris-rotating" trojan.
as ever, we can't  give a definitive answer to this.
8.1 microsoft's protection tools ---------------------------------  microsoft's macro virus protection tools originally detected concept (nuclear  and dmv were also mentioned in the documentation, but were not identified  specifically by the tools).
doesn't spread under system 6 with multifinder beyond system and  multifinder.
sevendust-a through g  (mdef 9806-a through d, also known as 666, e was at first called "graphics  accelerator"): a family of five viruses which spread both through 'mdef'  resources and a system extension created by that resource.
scanner 1.1x also by ioannis galidakis was released 15-jan-99, and is a  free, generic, heuristic 68k virus scanner for advanced macintosh users.
infects inits  and application files.
no intentional damage, but causes beeping, crashes, font  corruption and other problems.
update it with current definitions.
[dh] ++ i'm slightly surprised to find that i'm managing an eicar project in this area: watch this space.
even benign viruses (apparently non-destructive viruses) cause significant damage by occupying disk space and/or main memory, by using up cpu processing time, by introducing the risk of incompatibilities and conflicts, and by the time and expense wasted in detecting and removing them.
version 1.10 was due for release by the time of writing (february 1997), and an adaptation for office97 is in progress.
prod: nvir variant scores (eric, vult, nasa, san jose flu): aimed to  attack two applications that were never generally released.
deletes files other than the system file from the system folder, and documents, and is termed dangerous.
nor does it  mention any of the subsequently discovered variants.
netopia, inc., acquired what is now named timbuktu netoctopus in  late '98 or early '99.
at this time, agax will detect and  try to clean only sevendust, code 9811, and the autostart worms (the worm  additive was in beta testing at the time of this writing).
the latest version may be found at:   5.2 eicar ---------- ++dr solomon's anti-virus toolkit, virex, and nav (norton antivirus for macintosh) now support the eicar test.
++sophos anti-virus for macintosh (sav) was upgraded in january 1999 to include the sweep on-demand scanner.
the protection tool can be used to scan for concept-infected files, but there are a number of possible problems with it.
for further information on specific macro viruses, try one of the information resources given earlier.
[nav supersedes sam (symantec antivirus for macintosh)], virex for macintosh, rival, and sophos anti-virus for macintosh (sav).
it only detects a handful of mac system viruses  which the author claims that commercial vendors have not detected, and have not  been reported in the wild.
two of these viruses cause no  other damage.
macmag (aldus, brandow, drew, peace): first distributed as a  hypercard stack trojan, but only infected system files.
this version of the faq primarily reflects my  involvement in setting up an information resource at icsa.
[sl] 5.3 "robert slade's guide to computer viruses" -----------------------------------------------
from time to time  there are reports from mac users that the message 'welcome datacomp' appears in  their documents without having been typed.
dr solomon's "mac  viral zoo" starting to go out of date   ++keep  watching  5.5 virus bulletin -------------------
virex, nav, and  sam [obsolete] all address a full range of threats, including trojans and macro  viruses, and can do scheduled scanning as well as on-access (memory-resident)  scanning.
there is a copy of the retirement announcement on the web:   8.3 demo software  ------------------
can cause  accidental damage, though - system crashes, problems printing or with macdraw  and excel.
they infect applications and system files with an 'mdef' resource id '0', not otherwise causing file damage.
hc 9603 - infects the home stack, then other running stacks.
4.0  mission statement ==
takes two forms, 'init' resource id '33'  in an extension named "\001graphics accelerator" and an 'mdef'  resource id '1' to '255'.
note also that the possibility of virus-infected files embedded as objects in files associated with other applications: this possibility exists on any platform that supports ole.
chinatalk - system  extension - supposed to be sound driver, but actually deletes folders.
update the demo with current  definitions: .
++the reference site for this faq is now  www.icsa.net.
wdef (a,b): infects desktop file only.
++mac users with word 6 or versions  of word/excel supporting visual basic for applications, however, are vulnerable  to infection by macro viruses which are specific to these applications.
no mac scanner is known to attempt to detect it.
[dr.  solomon's for the mac detected pc boot sector infectors as well as mac viruses,  but didn't detect pc file viruses (apart from macro viruses), and so was not  sufficient protection for a mac with dos emulation.]
[dh] the following varieties are listed below: 7.1 mac-specific system and file infectors 7.2 hypercard infectors 7.3 mac trojans 7.4 macro viruses, trojans, variants 7.5 other operating systems, emulation on a mac 7.6 autostart 9805 worms 7.7
the expensive (but, for the professional, essential) periodical virus bulletin includes mac-specific information from time to time.
* disable autostart in quicktime  settings control panel.
symantec corporation (for nav and sam) 10201
the book also contains a  reasonable quantity of mac-friendly information.
there are a number of ways of opening a document which bypass it, some of which are rather commonly used (e.g. double-clicking or using the recent documents list).
the book also contains a reasonable quantity of mac-friendly information.
this section will probably be  amended or removed in the next version of the faq, when i've checked.]
special thanks to susan lesch for her  contributions, editing, and maintenance chores as co-maintainer.
sensibly  configured mailers and browsers don't allow this: check yours.
flag: unrelated to wdef a and b, but  was given the name wdef-c in some anti-virus software.
when it was first seen, it was reported to be a multiplatform virus capable of executing under some circumstances on macintoshes.
sophos also has a 30-day evaluation, also fully-functioning, which includes the sweep application.
no intended effects, but may damage  the home stack.
macintoshes and  clones driven by motorola 680x0 series cpus can't run the replicative code.
macro viruses are therefore highly  transmissible via macintoshes, even if they don't have a destructive effect on  motorola platforms, if there is an equivalent application available on the  macintosh.
dos diskettes infected with a boot  sector virus can be read on a mac with apple file exchange, pc exchange, dos  mounter etc. without (normally) risk to the mac.
sevendust-a through g (mdef 9806-a through d, also known as 666, e was at first called "graphics accelerator"): a family of five viruses which spread both through 'mdef' resources and a system extension created by that resource.
however, it's strictly speaking a limited-runtime demo -- it stops functioning after 20 trial runs on one system.
tetracycle - implicated in the original spread of mbdf virus info - purported to contain virus information but actually trashed disks.
indeed, it may be that the terms of  that agreement would prevent norstad from making the code public even if he  wanted to (i doubt that he does....).
the ciac virus database includes  entries for pc, macintosh, and a number of other platforms.
major developments in the sophos product are expected, including smooth large-scale deployment and ease of updating over networks.[sl] [this section is overdue for serious refurbishment.
no  mac scanner is known to attempt to detect it.
set to trigger and self-destruct on march 2nd, 1988, so rarely found.
you can get a copy of the latest version of les jones' faq on the good times hoax on the world wide web:  there's a mini-faq available as:  10.2 modems and hardware viruses ---------------------------------
[sl] 5.3 "robert  slade's guide to computer viruses"  -----------------------------------------------
this hypercard stack requires hypercard 2.1 or later.
also of interest, again sometimes outdated:   kevin harris's virus reference was last updated 31-aug-95.
may rename a file or folder to "virus mindcrime".
the main reason for this is that he doesn't have the resources to extend its capabilities to detect macro viruses, which have become by far the most significant virus problem for most macintosh users.
the ciac virus database includes entries for pc, macintosh, and a number of other platforms.
delprotect protects against malicious file deletion.
mdef-e and mdef-f:  described as simple and benign.
they can, of course, spread across platforms simply by copying infected files from one system to another.
1.0 copyright notice 2.0 preface 3.0 availability of  this faq 4.0 mission statement 5.0 where to get further information 5.1  computer virus faqs 5.2 eicar 5.3 "robert slade's guide to computer  viruses" 5.4 web sites 5.5 virus bulletin 5.6 macro virus information  resources 5.7 other resources 6.0
whether  you mail direct or post to a relevant newsgroup, it's helpful if you can supply  a few details, such as: * which model of macintosh you're using.
rebuilding the  desktop is by no means a cure-all, but rarely does any harm.
however, microsoft  suggest that you open the file in word for the macintosh and save it before  scanning.
the few mac-specific trojans are rarely seen, but of  course the commercial scanners generally detect them.
overwrites  stack resources, so a repaired stack may not run properly.
the main problem affecting mac users nowadays is the spread of macro viruses, and i can't possibly find time to catalogue them individually, so they are only considered generally.
this is probably a  wise decision, given the number of people who still overestimate the  effectiveness of the package in the face of the macro virus threat.
since the initial release of this  document, a number of people have e-mailed me asking for help with a possibly  virus-related problem.
indeed, these viruses can, potentially, infect other files on any hardware platform supporting these versions of these applications.
* heuristic scanners - scanners that inspect executable files for code using operations that might denote an unknown virus.
however, word 5.x users may contribute indirectly to the  spread of infected files across platforms and systems, since it is perfectly  possible for a user whose own system is uninfectable to act as a conduit for  the transmission of infected documents, whether or not s/he reads it  personally.
[reference to dr solomon's for mac removed, as the product is no longer supported.]
7.2 hypercard infectors  ------------------------
the macintosh section also includes a number of joke programs and one or two apparent hoaxes.
however, my own site at  will be the first place new versions will be posted.
indeed, it may be that the terms of that agreement would prevent norstad from making the code public even if he wanted to (i doubt that he does....).
[sl] wormscanner by james walker  autostart hunter by akira nagata  (english)  (japanese) bugscan by mountain ridge dataworks (also detects sevendust e)  worm gobbler by jim kreinbrink  innoculator by macoffice  wormfood by doug baer  eradicator with update, by uptown solutions ltd.  as stated above, one-shot solutions to a very small subset of a particular class of threat have a long and honourable history, and are very welcome when a new threat catches the antivirus developers on the hop (it can take some time to incorporate detection of new threats into the product update cycle).
however, leaving such an  infected disk in the drive while booting an emulator such as softpc can mean  that the virus attempts to infect the logical pc drive with unpredictable  results.
sections tagged with [dh] or [sl] are hangovers from the time when maintenance of the faq was shared between david harley and susan lesch, and usually denote personal opinions the originator didn't feel the other maintainer should be held responsible for.
can crash system 7 or damage files, but doesn't spread beyond the  system file.
the exorcist, free from  laffey computer imaging, may give some (by one description, about 90%)
tracker is now at version 1.1.
* use find file to find and trash an invisible "desktop print spooler", "desktop printr spooler", or "deldesktop print spooler" file (-not- desktop printer spooler, which is a legitimate and usually necessary system file).
david harley table of contents =
however, my own site at   will be the first place new  versions will be posted.
this will do the job, but will also infect your system, if the file  is infected.
virex 5.9.1 was released on 18-jan-99, for compatibility with mac os 8.5 and virex administrator 1.4, and can be downloaded. .
nvir variant that spoofs disinfectant to avoid detection (disinfectant 3.6 recognizes it).
working excel viruses are now beginning to appear also, and any future macintosh application that supports visual basic for applications will also be vulnerable.
sophos also has a 30-day evaluation, also fully-functioning, which includes the  sweep application.
esperanto 4733 7.1 mac-specific system and file  infectors -------------------------------------------
tetracycle - implicated in the original spread  of mbdf virus info - purported to contain virus information but actually  trashed disks.
[ken dunham discovered the merryxmas virus.
++office 98 applications are in principle vulnerable to most of the threats to which office 97 applications are vulnerable.
english and japanese are supported.
a minor variant of mbdf b appeared in summer 1997:
disinfector was briefly available at info-mac, but has  since been removed.
dr. solomon's for macintosh went through various stages of neglect  through late 1998 and support appears to have vanished altogether in 1999, when  customers started to receive virex disks instead of dr. solly's updates.
mdef (mdef a/garfield, mdef b/top cat, c, d): infect system file and application files (d doesn't infect system).
* list any other steps you've taken towards determining the  cause of the problem and/or trying to fix it, e.g. rebuilding the desktop,  booting without extensions, zapping pram etc.
sophos plc (for sophos anti-virus)
every  6, 10, or 30 minutes.[sl] affected platforms: any powermac.
two of these viruses cause no other damage.
it's also available from henri delger's prodigy  anti-virus center file library, as is thealt.comp.virus faq.
the costs of not establishing these measures can be considerable, irrespective of damage caused on infected machines, especially in corporate environments.
applescripts  should be downloaded only from known trusted sources.
it should *not* be regarded as being in any sense  authoritative, and has no legal standing.
virus reference 2.1.6 mentions an 'unnamed postscript hack' which disables postscript printers and requires replacement of a chip on the printer logic board to repair.
however,  the series has been re-vamped since i acquired my copies, and this may be less  than just.
dukakis - infects the home stack, then other stacks used subsequently.
more information from microsoft may be available at the addresses below.
thanks to bruce burrell, michael  wright, peter gersmann, david miller, ladd van tol, eric hildum, jeremy  goldman, kevin white, bill jackson, robert slade, robin dover, and john norstad  for their comments and suggestions.
macmag -  hypercard stack (new apple products) that was the origin of the macmag virus.
extant versions don't cause intentional damage.
applescript trojans - a demonstration destructive compiled applescript was posted to the newsgroups alt.comp.virus, comp.sys.mac.misc, comp.sys.mac.system, it.comp.macintosh, microsoft.public.word.mac, nl.comp.sys.mac, no.mac, and symantec.support.mac.sam.general on 16-aug-97, apparently in response to a call for help originally posted toalt.comp.virus on 14-aug-97 and followup on 15-aug-97.
contributions will, if incorporated, remain the copyright of the contributor, and credited accordingly within the faq.
most viruses are comparatively harmless, and may be present  for years with no noticeable effect: some, however, may cause random damage to  data files (sometimes insidiously, over a long period) or attempt to destroy  files and disks.
virus bulletin, july, 1998, includes a comprehensive analysis of autostart and some of its variants.
there is a copy of what i believe to be the last released version at  sherpasoft:  5.7  other resources --------------------
7.2 hypercard infectors ------------------------
variants include merry2xmas, lopez, and the rather destructive crudshot.
there is *no* good times virus that trashes your hard disk and launches your cpu into an nth-complexity binary loop when you read mail with "good times" in the subject: field.
it's well out-of-date, though, and was  always inaccurate in some respects.
symantec issued a norton antivirus 5.x->5.0.3 patch for mac os 8.5, fixing the problem with copying files on appleshare networks.
mosaic - supposed to display graphics, but actually mangles directory  structures.
6.0 how many viruses affect the  macintosh?
aids - infects  application and system files.
runs a gotcha message ("you have a virus.
microsoft make available a free 'protection tool' whose effectiveness is often overestimated.
however, microsoft suggest that you open the file in word for the macintosh and save it before scanning.
[dh] 8.5 commercial packages ------------------------
however, at least two reputable pc anti-virus vendors still list it as capable of activating on a macintosh.
there are around 40 mac-specific viruses and related threats.
* change detectors/checksummers/integrity checkers - programs that keep a database of the characteristics of all executable files on a system and check for changes which might signify an attack by an unknown virus.
the macrolist template is accessed by a button in the standard toolbar.
indeed,  these viruses can, potentially, infect other files on any hardware platform  supporting these versions of these applications.
unlike some commercial packages, it didn't scan compressed files, either: compressed files had to be expanded before scanning.
(nvir b strain) aladin - close relative of frankie anti (anti-a/anti-ange, anti-b, anti variant) - can't spread under system 7.x, or system 6 under multifinder.
dr solomon's software acquired virex and netoctopus from datawatch  corp. on 10-oct-97.
7.6 autostart 9805 worms -------------------------
no other intentional damage is done.
(umpteen volumes of fairly low-level info.
rarely,  may delete files.
* making the code public, even to a limited circle, would increase the chances of its falling into irresponsible hands.
it may be useful to know how much ram it has, the size of the hard disk, and any peripherals you're using.
virus test center,  hamburg: antivirus catalog/carobase early work       these  links may be out-of-date: if they don't work, try  last we checked [03-sep-97], these  sites probably need updating, though some older files do have historical value.
there is *no* good times virus that trashes your hard  disk and launches your cpu into an nth-complexity binary loop when you read  mail with "good times" in the subject: field.
the demo supports both english and japanese.
this  probably doesn't belong here.
info-mac mirrors have macintosh information, but includes some outdated virus information and software at this writing; still, always worth a visit.
symantec (www.symantec.com), network associates (www.nai.com), sophos (www.sophos.com) and dr. solomon's (www.drsolomon.com) include macintosh virus information.
senator-bedfellow.mit.edu 567  18.181.0.29 xref: senator-bedfellow.mit.edu alt.comp.virus:293335  comp.virus:31181 comp.sys.mac.apps:448328 comp.sys.mac.misc:363332  comp.sys.mac.system:718861 alt.answers:82494 comp.answers:63809  news.answers:308794view main headers see reader questions & answers  on this topic!
esperanto 4733 7.1 mac-specific system and file infectors ------------------------------------------- aids - infects application and system files.
init 29 (init 29 a, b): spreads rapidly.
it's well out-of-date, though, and was always inaccurate in some respects.
after copying itself, it reboots  the system and is now launched every time the system restarts.
primary author and maintainer of this document is david harley, comments and additional material have been received with gratitude from ronnie sutherland, henri delger, mike groh and eugene spafford.
comp.virus lies dormant for years at a time, but is well worth watching when there's anything there.
tracker is now at version  1.1.
doesn't include information  on individual viruses apart from name and platform, and somewhat irregularly  maintained.
this faq originated from a concern over the spread of  macro viruses, a theme that is taken up below.
there is, however, at least one freeware  utility which allows word 5.x users to read word 6 files.
these viruses are  not known to be in circulation.
hc 9507 - infects the  home stack, then other running stacks and randomly chosen stacks on the startup  disk.
the pentagon abingdon  oxon england ox14 3yp us support: +1-888-sophos-9 uk support: +44-1235-559933 http://www.sophos.com/ ++details on datafellows will be included when i've  determined the current status of f-secure for macintosh.
antibody is a recent virus-hunting virus which propagates between stacks  checking for and removing merryxmas, and inserting an inoculation script.
++office 98 moves the  goalposts again.
* virus - a program (a  block of executable code) that attaches itself to, overwrites or otherwise  replaces another program in order to reproduce itself without the knowledge of  the computer user.
this should also prevent infection by future malware exploiting the same loophole, but will fail if a setup is booted from a volume with an infected extensions folder [sl].
whether you mail direct or post to a relevant newsgroup, it's helpful if you can supply a few details, such as: * which model of macintosh you're using.
originally included in versions 2.0/2.1 of the public domain game  gomoku.
disinfector was briefly available at info-mac, but has since been removed.
* cryptographic checksummers use an encryption algorithm to lessen the risk of being fooled by a virus that targets that particular checksummer.
7.3 mac trojan horses ----------------------
transmission method:  infected media contain an invisible application file named "db" or  "bd" or "deldb" in the root directory (type appl, creator  ????).
compuserve genie america  online calvacom delphi bix info-mac mirrors in the ../vir/
[dh] curiously, the same fallacies have  recently been been aired on a unix virus discussion list.
if you don't have extensions manager, try now utilities or  conflict catcher.
probably the most complete [sl].
subsequent reports indicate that this belief results from misinformation on the part of the author.
registered users who bought mcafee virusscan during the past six months or so, and registered users of virex 5.8 and 5.9 could still upgrade: .
a note to users from hotline communications ceo adam hinkley is  posted at .
if the reset values aren't retained, the battery may  need replacing.
the cursor moves diagonally and uncontrollably across the screen  when the mouse button is held down when an infected application is run.
but not always the most  accurate [dh].
ncam: nvir variant nvir (nvir a, b, c - aids, fuck, hpat, jude, mev#, nflu): infect system and any opened applications.
more information may be available from symantec sam support on the web.]
infect applications and system files  including system and finder.
draws a bomb icon and displays 'frankie says: no more piracy!"
hc "two tunes" (referred to by some sources as "three tunes") - infects stack scripts.
the last time i saw it, it detected macro viruses only.
stand-alone on-access scanning is now available in the release version.
;-)   network associates, formerly mcafee associates: virus information library   macintosh viruses  sophos plc  about.com "macintosh virus desriptions" part of work in progress  by ken dunham +  (new  domain name)
files with names ending "dat" are targeted if the whole file is c. 2mb or larger.
transmission method: infected media contain an invisible application file named "db" or "bd" or "deldb" in the root directory (type appl, creator ????).
disinfector 1.0 is described by its author as shareware.
faq this is posted to alt.comp.virus approximately fortnightly.
even  sources which describe this virus as "three tunes" seem to describe  the symptoms consistently with the description here, but we will, for  completeness, attempt to resolve any possible confusion when time allows.
can cause accidental damage, though - system crashes, problems printing or with macdraw and excel.
on the sixth day of the month, mdef 9806-b may erase all non-application files on the current volume.
removal: the easiest and safest method for most people will be to use the updated version of their favoured anti-virus software, as it becomes available.
to one of the commercial products.
there  are a few reported instances of failures by some of these programs to identify  or remove the autostart worms, and it is likely that d might be mis-identified  as c, and e may be mis-identified as the original worm.
if the host mac isn't already infected, it copies itself  to the extensions folder.
the main problem affecting mac users nowadays is the spread of macro viruses,  and i can't possibly find time to catalogue them individually, so they are only  considered generally.
date: 25 may 2006 04:23:53 gmt lines: 1723 nntp-posting-host:  penguin-lust.mit.edu x-trace: 1148531033
unfortunately, the number of known macro viruses runs into several thousand, though the number in the wild is far fewer.
[this seems to have disappeared, along with rival itself - 11-12-99]
doesn't spread under system 6 with multifinder beyond system and multifinder.
* damage to reputation - no legitimate organisation wants to be seen as being riddled with viruses.
working excel viruses are now beginning to appear also,  and any future macintosh application that supports visual basic for  applications will also be vulnerable.
message; plays the tune "muss i denn"; plays the tune "behind the blue mountains"; displays hypercard toolbox and pattern menus; displays 'don't panic!'
cdef - infects desktop files.
+ sophos combines an intercept driver (intercheck) and a scanner application (sweep).
attempts to overwrite whole startup volume and disk  information on all connected hard drives.
however, many users are unaware  of these distinctions and still assume that disinfectant is a complete  solution, even after its effective demise (in fact, there were people still  relying on gatekeeper long after its author disowned it....).
this  virus is not known to be in circulation.
[thus word 5.1 users can not be directly infected, but may, like anyone,  pass on infected documents to vulnerable systems.]] network associates,  symantec, and intego all make known-virus scanners that detect a range of macro  viruses.
contact virus bulletin for further information on the annual conference and on obtaining the proceedings.
there are excellent pages on hypercard viruses at hyperactive software.
disinfectant has been available up  to now from the following sources, but this may not continue to be the case.:
can cause accidental damage to the system file and menu problems.
'zapping' pram returns possibly  corrupt pram data to default values.
nor is there the same degree of urgency about the mac virus field, though the risk element may be somewhat underestimated in general, at present.
prevention: uninfected systems can be protected by disabling the autostart option in quicktime settings (quicktime 2.5 or later only - earlier versions don't have a disable option).
dr solomon's  software ltd.  central command   network associates  data fellows   ++richard martin put together  an faq on the subject of word viruses.
(no longer  accessible) msn: go macrovirustool aol:
in any case, disinfectant was always intended to deal with system viruses, not trojans or macro/script viruses.
compuserve: the word  forum microsoft product support services 206-462-9673 (winword) 206-635-7200  (word mac) email:wordinfo@microsoft.com
- u - v - w - x - y - z viruses and the mac faq [ usenet faqs | web faqs  |documents | rfc index | restaurant inspections ] faqs.org archive-name: computer-virus/macintosh-faq last-modified: fri, 1 jan 2000 19:14 gmt url: http://www.sherpasoft.org.uk/macsupporters/macvir.faq copyright: copyright 1996-2000 by david harley and contributors maintainer: david harley  view all headers path: senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!dreaderd!not-for-mail message-id:  supersedes:  expires: 22 jun 2006  04:23:25 gmt x-last-updated: 2000/01/07 organization: none from: d.harley@icrf.icnet.uk (david harley)
only found on macs running the italian version of macos.
you can get a copy of  the latest version of les jones' faq on the good times hoax on the world wide  web:  there's a  mini-faq available as:  10.2 modems and hardware viruses ---------------------------------
nonetheless, here are some thoughts on the main  contenders.
++mac users with word 6 or versions of word/excel supporting visual basic for applications, however, are vulnerable to infection by macro viruses which are specific to these applications.
from symantec's advice: "in order to maintain the safety and security of your data from viruses without interruption, we recommend that you upgrade to navm 5.0.3 before may 1st.
viruses and the mac faq font: monospace arial verdana tahoma times new roman  helvetica comic sans ms search the faq archives 3 - a - b - c - d - e - f - g - h - i - j - k - l - m n - o - p - q - r - s - t
variants  include merry2xmas, lopez, and the rather destructive crudshot.
symantec corporation (for  nav and sam) 10201
i'll return to this subject when and if time allows.
the sarc encyclopedia calls mdef 9806-c, "polymorphic and encrypted, no payload," and mdef 9806-d, "encrypting, polymorphic, symbiotic," and says the symbiotic part, "alters a 'wind' resource from the host application."
infects system files, applications, and  document files (document files can't infect other files, though).
gmt x-last-updated: 2000/01/07 organization: none from: d.harley@icrf.icnet.uk (david harley)
fuck: infects application and system files.
++office 98 moves the goalposts again.
in fact, the online documentation has long stated that the code for the  detection engine is not available, though some of the interface code was.
installation and interface are  easy and efficient.
a statement like, "please forward to everyone!" is one mark of a hoax.
what's the best antivirus package for the  macintosh?
it is nigh impossible for an average person to know what any given compiled script will do.
7.4 macro  viruses, trojans, variants -------------------------------------
new features included liveupdate virus definition updates over the internet, enhanced macro virus protection, automatic file repair, a bootable cd-rom for emergencies, faster scanning for ppc, and a universal safezone.
dr. solomon's for macintosh went through various stages of neglect through late 1998 and support appears to have vanished altogether in 1999, when customers started to receive virex disks instead of dr. solly's updates.
netopia, inc., acquired what is now named timbuktu netoctopus in late '98 or early '99.
tracker init and  delprotect init, both by ioannis galidakis, were first released on 19-nov-98.
these are a somewhat esoteric breed, but a couple have been seen since disinfectant was last upgraded in 1995, and most of the commercial scanners detect them.
in particular, check that your web browser doesn't automatically pass word documents to word 6 to open, since this may result in embedded macros being launched.
1.0 copyright notice 2.0 preface 3.0 availability of this faq 4.0 mission statement 5.0 where to get further information 5.1 computer virus faqs 5.2 eicar 5.3 "robert slade's guide to computer viruses" 5.4 web sites 5.5 virus bulletin 5.6 macro virus information resources 5.7 other resources 6.0
4.0 mission statement ==
this section will probably be amended or removed in the next version of the faq, when i've checked.]
since questions about macs and  viruses tend to appear more often in the mac groups thanalt.comp.virus or  virus-l, distribution of this faq is wider.
unfortunately, the quality of  virus-related information in such publications is generally low, and there are  few or no books on computer viruses in general which are both recent -and-  accurate.
applescript trojans  - a demonstration destructive compiled applescript was posted to the newsgroups alt.comp.virus, comp.sys.mac.misc, comp.sys.mac.system, it.comp.macintosh,  microsoft.public.word.mac, nl.comp.sys.mac, no.mac, and  symantec.support.mac.sam.general on 16-aug-97, apparently in response to a call  for help originally posted toalt.comp.virus on 14-aug-97 and followup on  15-aug-97.
it may not be reproduced for profit or distributed in part or as a whole with any product for which a charge is made, except with the prior permission of the copyright holder(s).
a mac  virus guru says: "the postscript 'trojan' was basically a postscript job  that toggled the printer password to some random string a number of times.
fontfinder - supposed  to lists fonts used in a document, but actually deletes folders.
8.6  contact details --------------------
may display a message if a locked floppy is accessed on an infected system 'the disk "xxxxx" needs minor repairs.
code 252: infects application and system files.
the document is subject to revision, so the file name may change.
the last versions of virusscan for mac and disinfectant did not detect autostart.
they are included here (a) because mac support staff are accustomed to being asked about them (b) because anything that -might- work on a real pc -might- also work with dos emulation, in principle.
disabling extensions is also a good starting point for tracking down an extensions conflict.
but not always the most accurate [dh].
some of the "totally  witless user's guide to......." books dealing with security in general  include information on pc -and-
http://www.drsolomon.com ftp: ftp://ftp.drsolomon.com
5.0 where to get further information =
t4-d spreads from application to application on launch by appending itself to the 'code' resource.
doesn't spread under system 7.
virex 5.8 scans zip archives, has a contextual menu plug-in module, and interface enhancements.
this article by paul ducklin of  sophos explains the eicar test file: .
there is a copy of the retirement announcement on the web:  8.3 demo software ------------------
contributions will, if incorporated,  remain the copyright of the contributor, and credited accordingly within the  faq.
mac troubleshooting =
david harley table of  contents =
macro viruses work because the files to which they  are attached are not 'pure' data files.
viruses that manipulate text strings within a document may work just as well on a macintosh as on a pc.
unfortunately,this is now a little out-of-date, particularly as regards the update status of the antivirus software it mentions.
scanprot cannot handle non-english documents,  and will hang during the scanning process if it encounters a document created  with a non-english version of word.
david harley  3.0 availability of this faq  =
tracker is a behavior blocker something like the retired program gatekeeper.
approved: news-answers-request@mit.edu originator: faqserv@penguin-lust.mit.edu
the focus on these two groups tends to be ibm-compatible, but mac issues are certainly aired.
the excel add-in for macs removes only laroux a and  b.
8.2 disinfectant -----------------
infects system extensions (inits).
* making the code public, even to a  limited circle, would increase the chances of its falling into irresponsible  hands.
the author's web page and documentation invite mac programmers to contribute additives.
there is no known way in which a virus could sensibly be spread by a graphics file such as a jpeg or .gif file, which does not contain executable code.
for presales and upgrade questions, please contact  customer service.
* infected files embedded in ole2 files or e-mail files will not be detected.
not to be confused with virus reference.
the basic package includes a control panel for scanning on file or diskette access which can be locked independently of the administration package.
messages you don't want to post  corporates who haven't sorted out their hoax management strategy might get some mileage out of my mini-paper on "dealing with internet hoaxes", though it's getting a bit long in the tooth.
mdef (mdef a/garfield, mdef b/top cat,  c, d): infect system file and application files (d doesn't infect system).
this document is intended to help individuals with computer  virus-related problems and queries, and clarify the issue of computer viruses  on macintosh platforms.
the sarc encyclopedia calls mdef  9806-c, "polymorphic and encrypted, no payload," and mdef 9806-d,  "encrypting, polymorphic, symbiotic," and says the symbiotic part,  "alters a 'wind' resource from the host application."
parameter ram (pram) contains system information, notably the  settings for a number of system control panels.
(umpteen volumes of fairly  low-level info.
triggered (displayed a peace message and self-deleted on march 2nd 1988, so very rarely found.
info-mac mirrors have macintosh information, but includes some outdated virus  information and software at this writing; still, always worth a visit.
they can be reached at 800-441-7234 or online at:"  [sam 4.5.x needs the 4.5->4.5.1 application patch to run current definitions, and the 4.5.3 intercept patch to resolve a compatibility issue with microsoft office 98, and segment loader errors when intercept loads.
the  paper can also be found (by permission of virus bulletin) at the author's  website  and at  5.6 macro virus information resources  -------------------------------------- ++university of hamburg virus test  center macro virus list is the definitive listing.
scanprot cannot handle non-english documents, and will hang during the scanning process if it encounters a document created with a non-english version of word.
doesn't infect or trigger on real macs or the spectre emulator.
(nvir b strain) aladin -  close relative of frankie anti (anti-a/anti-ange, anti-b, anti variant) - can't  spread under system 7.x, or system 6 under multifinder.
nonetheless, here are some thoughts on the main contenders.
some apple laser printers have a firmware counter that allows the password to only be changed a set number of times (because of pram behavior or licensing -- i don't remember which), so eventually the password would get "stuck" at some random string that the user would not know.
sevendust f uses a trojan "extensionconflict", common extensions names, and creator 'acce'.[sl] t4 (a, b, c, d): infects applications, finder, and tries to modify system so that startup code is altered.
visual/audio effects: 'hey, what are you doing?'
init 17: infects system file and  applications.
there is no virus that causes damage to hardware.
[i look forward to hearing about the first turing  machine infector....]
many major vendors have a virus  information database online on their web sites.
* damage  to reputation - no legitimate organisation wants to be seen as being riddled  with viruses.
most macro viruses (if they have a warhead at all) target intel platforms and assume fat-based directory structures, so they usually have no discernible effect on macs when they trigger.
infect applications and system files including system and finder.
if it's infected with a virus -other- than concept, this could create problems if the protection tool is bypassed on a subsequent file open.
primary author and maintainer of this document is david harley, comments and  additional material have been received with gratitude from ronnie sutherland,  henri delger, mike groh and eugene spafford.
later implementations built into the application are better on  identifying a few specific viruses and on integration into word itself, but  should not be relied on for 100% effective detection, blocking and disinfection  of macro viruses.
however, at least two reputable pc  anti-virus vendors still list it as capable of activating on a macintosh.
there are several strains, most of which cause system crashes and other anomalies.
the best choice depends on subjective  criteria and individal needs.
the hoax business has  changed a lot since this faq began.
nvir-f: nvir  variant.
however, it may be freely  distributed and quoted - accurately, and with due credit.
it's also available from henri delger's prodigy anti-virus center file library, as is thealt.comp.virus faq.
8.1 microsoft's protection tools 8.2 disinfectant retired 8.3
virex offers very fast scanning is easy  to update, and includes checksumming for the detection of unknown viruses.
it is probably not safe to use or rely on on modern  systems, and i believe the author recommends that people don't attempt to use  it, though i've been unable to contact him to get confirmation.
the maintainer does not currently have the time or resources to do full detection testing of these products (or any other).
for more information about this book:  [springer] ++very few books primarily about computer viruses deal at any length with mac viruses (i can't think of one, at present).
parameter ram (pram) contains system information, notably the settings for a number of system control panels.
the document is subject to revision, so the file name may  change.
triggers when run between june 6th and december 31st.
for instance, although word for windows versions before vs. 6 support wordbasic, word versions for the mac up to and including version 5.1 do not.
the macintosh  section also includes a number of joke programs and one or two apparent hoaxes.
also of interest, again sometimes outdated:    kevin harris's virus reference was  last updated 31-aug-95.
server-based on-access scanning has long been  available for mac clients on nt or netware networks.
network associates (nai) acquired dr solomon's on  13-aug-98.
it will probably be available shortly from  there are html versions at:    i have no control over the content of these sites, and can't guarantee that they're up-to-date.
[the following absolute urls may change: such is the way of web administrators.....
in brief, office 98 does a better job of implementing a primarily  generic approach [i.e. "if it contains macros, it's suspicious: sort it  out yourself...."], but whether this is enough is a question demanding  more space and time than i have to spare right now.
disinfector 1.0 is described by its author as  shareware.
zuc (a, b, c): infects  applications.
12.0 general reference section  =
this is probably a wise decision, given the number of people who still overestimate the effectiveness of the package in the face of the macro virus threat.
this makes it even more important that disinfectant users switch..." to one of the commercial products.
the costs of not establishing these measures can be  considerable, irrespective of damage caused on infected machines, especially in  corporate environments.
the few mac-specific trojans are rarely seen, but of course the commercial scanners generally detect them.
note that i'm not primarily in the business of hands-on virus analysis, and  cannot accept responsibility for descriptive errors based on third-party  information.
a note to users from hotline communications ceo adam hinkley is posted at .
it may be  useful to know how much ram it has, the size of the hard disk, and any  peripherals you're using.
free technical support is all-year round, any time of day.
[etc.]"), then self-deletes.
*  the microsoft tools are not useful on non-english windows systems (which may be  run under virtual pc or real pc).
zuc (a, b, c): infects applications.
dukakis - infects the home stack, then other  stacks used subsequently.
the only cure is to replace the keyboard (be polite but firm with the dealer if you were sold this as a new keyboard!).
it is nigh impossible for  an average person to know what any given compiled script will do.
* it misses one of the main points of norstad's announcement, which is to acknowledge the dangers of continuing to develop a scanner which detects only one class of virus, when so many people have laboured so long under the misapprehension that it was a complete solution.
unlike the legitimate desktop printer spooler extension, the worm file has the invisible attribute set, and isn't listed as a running process by the system software, though it can be seen with process watcher or macsbug.
it is probably not safe to use or rely on on modern systems, and i believe the author recommends that people don't attempt to use it, though i've been unable to contact him to get confirmation.
computer virus faq for new users a mainly non-mac virus faq posted tonews.newusers.questions, alt.newbie, alt.newbies, alt.answers , andnews.answers.
there are several strains,  most of which cause system crashes and other anomalies.
init 29  (init 29 a, b): spreads rapidly.
stand-alone on-access scanning is now  available in the release version.
the disk includes a copy of  disinfectant 3.6, which is now out-of-date -- 3.7.1 is the latest and final  release.
infects inits and application files.
network associates has a 30-day fully-functioning evaluation version of virex 5.9.1.
[i look forward to hearing about the first turing machine infector....]
this virus has no known with the pc file infector sometimes known as three tunes.
macworld magazine  tidbits (have done many good articles on mac/macro virus issues.)
gatekeeper was not a scanner, but a generic tool.
transmission media: hfs or hfs+ volumes (hard disks, diskettes, most types of removable media, even disk images).
i'm an experienced mac user and an it support professional, but i don't claim  to be a mac expert (2) pressure of work and other commitments and
it  was originally intended to reference all the major variants at least by name  eventually, but since the information is of academic interest at best to most  users (and available elsewhere anyway), it's no longer considered a priority.
it was originally intended to reference all the major variants at least by name eventually, but since the information is of academic interest at best to most users (and available elsewhere anyway), it's no longer considered a priority.
the paper can also be found (by permission of virus bulletin) at the author's website  and at  5.6 macro virus information resources -------------------------------------- ++university of hamburg virus test center macro virus list is the definitive listing.
i have not heard any  reports of anyone suffering from this in many years."
merryxmas - appends to stack script.
* to think that a committee of well-intentioned amateurs (or a single ambitious amateur can develop disinfectant to the same high standard that it achieved through its lifetime demonstrates a profound underestimation of the difficulties of maintaining (let alone creating) a first-class known-virus scanner.
7.7 esperanto.4733 -------------------
network associates (for virex, dr solomon's anti-virus toolkit, and virusscan) network associates corporate headquarters 3965
john dalgliesh has created agax, an  extensible, free anti-virus program which replaces his program antigax, and  uses plug-ins called "additives."
demo  software 8.4 other freeware/shareware packages 8.5 commercial packages 8.6  contact details 9.0
the (may 1998) sam definitions  files included a read me with instructions.
some of  these are pc-specific, rather than mac-specific, while some have no basis in  reality on any system.
the first four variants are not known to be in circulation.
under system 6 and 7.0, inits and system extensions don't load.
this document is a little different to  thealt.comp.virus faq, which david harley also co-maintains (at time of  writing).
alt.comp.virus is unmoderated, and the quality of the advice and opinions aired there is very variable - there are many reputable and expert posters, and many mischievous and misleading contributions.
untagged sections using the first person are usually  attributable to david harley.
"inside macintosh" (addison  wesley).
init-9403 (sysx): infects applications and finder under systems 6 and 7.
self-extracting archives were probably best scanned  before unpacking, then again when unpacked.
if you get an error message, try the first part of the url,  e.g.  and drill down from there.]
approved: news-answers-request@mit.edu originator: faqserv@penguin-lust.mit.edu date: 25 may 2006 04:23:53 gmt lines: 1723 nntp-posting-host: penguin-lust.mit.edu x-trace: 1148531033 senator-bedfellow.mit.edu 567 18.181.0.29
++[i suspect that this product has been removed from  circulation, but haven't checked with the author.
targeted files are attacked by overwriting the data fork (up to the 1st mb) with garbage.
when run, infected the system file, which then infected system files on  floppies.
precise urls tend to come and go, but you might like to try the following: symantec antivirus research center virus encyclopedia based on project vgrep: huge, and now has a search engine.
code 32767: once a month tries to delete documents.
however, charging for this particular utility puts it into the same arena as the commercial scanners which detect a far wider range of threats and for which full support is available, an area in which it cannot at present compete.
this virus is not known to be in  circulation.
*  heuristic scanners - scanners that inspect executable files for code using  operations that might denote an unknown virus.
in fact, the  information that such and such a virus exists is not, in itself, useful to the  average computer user, even if it does.
special thanks to susan lesch for her contributions, editing, and maintenance chores as co-maintainer.
unfortunately, this can be counterproductive in real life, since an over-stringent alert policy is apt to result in the facility being turned off altogether.
do you want to repair it?'.
however, word 5.x users may contribute indirectly to the spread of infected files across platforms and systems, since it is perfectly possible for a user whose own system is uninfectable to act as a conduit for the transmission of infected documents, whether or not s/he reads it personally.
the a strain was also distributed in obnoxious tetris and ten tile puzzle.
virus identity updates are available from the web between monthly cd-roms.
mbdf (a,b): originated from the tetracycle, tetricycle or "tetris-rotating" trojan.
runs a gotcha  message ("you have a virus.
[v1.1 and the office 97 "late beta" were available as at 18th march 1997.
new roman helvetica comic sans ms view all headers path: senator-bedfellow.mit.edu!dreaderd!not-for-mail message-id:  supersedes:  expires: 22 jun 2006 04:23:25
on 03-sep-97, macintouch published xavier bury's finding of a second  applescript trojan horse, which, like the call for help followup, mentioned  hotline servers.
unfortunately, this can be counterproductive in real life, since an  over-stringent alert policy is apt to result in the facility being turned off  altogether.
nav, formerly sam, is particularly oriented towards behaviour blocking: the intercept tool can be configured to raise an alert at the slightest whiff of a 'suspicious' operation.
network associates (for virex, dr  solomon's anti-virus toolkit, and virusscan) network associates corporate  headquarters 3965 freedom circle mccandless towers santa clara, ca 95054
it is no longer supported by its author, but is still available on some sites.
nondestructive but spreads; infected stacks blink once per second starting in january, 1999.
these are often unsubtle and immediate in their effects:
since the initial release of this document, a number of people have e-mailed me asking for help with a possibly virus-related problem.
similar damage mechanisms to init-1984.
in the early days of virus/antivirus technology, a number of utilities were made available which addressed only one or a few viruses, and a proliferation of free autostart worm detectors continues that honourable tradition.
amendments of minor grammatical or syntactical errors are not flagged unless they affect factual accuracy or clarity.
the eighth principle of the data protection act, for instance, requires that security measures are taken to protect against unauthorised access to, and alteration, disclosure and destruction of personal data, or its accidental loss.
symptoms: perhaps the most noticeable symptom of the worms is that an infected system will _lock up and churn with unexplained disk activity_ every 6, 10, or 30 minutes.[sl] affected platforms: any powermac.
if you're  rebuilding the desktop, release the shift key and hold down command (the key  with the apple outline icon) & options (alt) until requested to confirm  that you want to rebuild.
draws a bomb icon and displays 'frankie says:  no more piracy!"
+ sophos combines an  intercept driver (intercheck) and a scanner application (sweep).
new features included  liveupdate virus definition updates over the internet, enhanced macro virus  protection, automatic file repair, a bootable cd-rom for emergencies, faster  scanning for ppc, and a universal safezone.
this makes it even more important that disinfectant users switch..."
similar damage mechanisms to  init-1984.
-- end "viruses and the macintosh" version 1.6a by david harley[ usenet faqs | web faqs | documents | rfc index ] user contributions: comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about this topic:name: e-mail: display email publicly security code: comment: (50-4000 characters) archived related questions and answers send corrections/additions to the faq maintainer:send corrections/additions to the faq maintainer:
displays message "from the depths of cyberspace" the first time it triggers.
the virex trial includes  the application, not the control panel.
[dh] word mac version 5.1 and below do  not support wordbasic, and are not, therefore, vulnerable to direct infection.
[dh]  ++ i'm slightly  surprised to find that i'm managing an eicar project in this area: watch this  space.
mosaic - supposed to display graphics, but actually mangles directory structures.
damages files by renaming them, changing file type and file creator, creation and modification dates, and sometimes by deleting them.
there is no modem virus that spreads via an undocumented subcarrier - whatever that means....
by david harley  version 1.6b: 7th january 2000 significant changes from the previous version  are flagged with + symbols in the first two columns at the start of the  relevant line or section.
in fact, i don't know of any formal testing for pc antivirus software in  the context of pc emulation on macs.
detection: updates to deal with the worms are available for virex  (http://www.drsolomon.com/products/virex/), for nav and sam ( http://www.symantec.com/avcenter/download.html), and for rival  (http://www.intego.com/).
the virus-l/comp.virus faq (also fairly low on mac-specific information) is regularly posted to the comp.virus newsgroup (version 2.0 at time of writing).
it's not a virus - it cannot infect anything.
it includes a document that summarizes and gives contact information for a  number of other virus-related faqs; (not much mac-specific material).
"power macintosh  emergency handbook" (apple computer)  macfixit "troubleshooting for the  macintosh"  "sad macs, bombs and  other disasters" ted landau (addison wesley)
it's also possible to buy an administration package.
norton  antivirus for macintosh (nav)
disabling extensions is also a good starting point  for tracking down an extensions conflict.
files infected with a pc-specific file virus (this excludes macro  viruses) can only execute on a macintosh running dos or dos/windows emulation,  if then.
others cause unintended damage.
sam application minimum and preferred memory allocations must be increased from their shipping defaults to 5000k or greater.
if booting without extensions appears  to bypass the problem, try removing extensions with extensions manager (system  7.5) - remove one at a time, and replace it before removing the next one and  booting with that one removed.
virex 5.9.1 was released on 18-jan-99, for  compatibility with mac os 8.5 and virex administrator 1.4, and can be  downloaded. .
corrections and additional material are welcome, especially if kept polite....
freedom circle mccandless towers santa clara, ca 95054
the protection tool can be used to scan  for concept-infected files, but there are a number of possible problems with  it.
macworld magazine  tidbits (have done many  good articles on mac/macro virus issues.)
to disable extensions, restart the machine with the shift key held down until you see an extensions off message.
nav, formerly sam, is  particularly oriented towards behaviour blocking: the intercept tool can be  configured to raise an alert at the slightest whiff of a 'suspicious'  operation.
unfortunately,this is now a little out-of-date, particularly as  regards the update status of the antivirus software it mentions.
transmission media: hfs or hfs+ volumes (hard disks, diskettes, most types of  removable media, even disk images).
despite the message, no intentional damage is  done, though shutting down the mac instead of clicking to continue could cause  damage.
the hoax business has changed a lot since this faq began.
some general books on the mac touch on the  subject, but none i can think of add anything useful.
this is the result of using a  trojanised 3rd-party mac-compatible keyboard with this 'joke' hard-coded into  the keyboard rom.
the authors accept no responsibility for errors or omissions, or for any ill effects resulting from the use of any information contained in this document.
symantec has a 30-day fully-functioning trialware nav (norton antivirus for macintosh).
if booting without extensions appears to bypass the problem, try removing extensions with extensions manager (system 7.5) - remove one at a time, and replace it before removing the next one and booting with that one removed.
displays message "from the depths of cyberspace" the  first time it triggers.
so far,  compressed archives must be decompressed before scanning; i am assured that  archive scanning will be in future versions.
symantec has a 30-day fully-functioning trialware nav  (norton antivirus for macintosh).
principally, they merely warned users that the  document they are about to open contained macros and offered the choice of  opening the file without macros, opening it with macros, or cancelling the file  open.
vesselin bontchev has considered macro  upconversion at some length in papers for virus bulletin and eicar conferences.
"inside macintosh" (addison wesley).
unlike some commercial  packages, it didn't scan compressed files, either: compressed files had to be  expanded before scanning.
at this time, agax will detect and try to clean only sevendust, code 9811, and the autostart worms (the worm additive was in beta testing at the time of this writing).
10.5 hoaxes help -----------------
this is  not a virus scanner, but allows disabling of automacros, listing of any macros  found in the current document etc.
readme-important was updated again on 11 october 1998, adding,  "in addition to the autostart worm and the microsoft macro viruses,  several other new mac viruses have appeared since disinfectant's retirement in  may.
self-extracting archives were probably best scanned before unpacking, then again when unpacked.
native mac viruses are rather rarely seen nowadays, and  most people don't need to know about them in detail -- in fact, what they need  most is to know that their favoured antivirus software will deal with them.
os 9 users will need the beta control panel available from www.nai.com, to overcome compatibility problems.
++virusscan 3.0.1 is the final version for macintosh, and may be updated for macro viruses into 1999, but will never have autostart worm definitions or definitions for the new system viruses like sevendust e. virusscan customers need to take advantage of a free upgrade to virex as soon as possible.
[reference to dr solomon's for mac  removed, as the product is no longer supported.]
they infect applications and system files with  an 'mdef' resource id '0', not otherwise causing file damage.
however, the entire macintosh community owes john norstad a debt of gratitude for making it freely available for so long, an act of altruism which has probably contributed very significantly to the comparative rarity of native macintosh viruses.]
xref: senator-bedfellow.mit.edu alt.comp.virus:293335 comp.virus:31181 comp.sys.mac.apps:448328 comp.sys.mac.misc:363332 comp.sys.mac.system:718861 alt.answers:82494 comp.answers:63809 news.answers:308794view main
7.0  what viruses can affect mac users?
the eighth  principle of the data protection act, for instance, requires that security  measures are taken to protect against unauthorised access to, and alteration,  disclosure and destruction of personal data, or its accidental loss.
it is highly recommended  that anyone with such a system should run a reputable, up-to-date pc antivirus  program under emulation, as well as a good mac antivirus program.
i've done some informal testing (referred  to in another paper), but am not prepared to make vendor-specific  recommendations on the basis of such testing.
code 252: infects application and system  files.
* monitor/behaviour blocker - a  tsr that monitors programs while they are running for behaviour which might  denote a virus.
however, icsa does not currently certify mac  products, though this is being looked at.
hc 9507 - infects the home stack, then other running stacks and randomly chosen stacks on the startup disk.
* to think that a committee of well-intentioned  amateurs (or a single ambitious amateur can develop disinfectant to the same  high standard that it achieved through its lifetime demonstrates a profound  underestimation of the difficulties of maintaining (let alone creating) a  first-class known-virus scanner.
however, the virus code has to be executed before it actually infects.
5.x->5.0.3 patch for mac os 8.5, fixing the problem with copying files on  appleshare networks.
version 1.10 was due for release by the time  of writing (february 1997), and an adaptation for office97 is in progress.
virex, nav, and sam [obsolete] all address a full range of threats, including trojans and macro viruses, and can do scheduled scanning as well as on-access (memory-resident) scanning.
in january 1997  padgett peterson, author of the pc utility disksecure, released the first  version of his macrolist macro detection tool, which has been tested by the  author on macs (system 7.5 on se/30, iici and powermac) as well as windows pcs,  using considerably more macro viruses than microsoft seem to have heard of.....
* use find  file to find and trash an invisible "desktop print spooler",  "desktop printr spooler", or "deldesktop print spooler"  file (-not- desktop printer spooler, which is a legitimate and usually  necessary system file).
[dh] word mac version 5.1 and below do not support wordbasic, and are not, therefore, vulnerable to direct infection.
sam  application minimum and preferred memory allocations must be increased from  their shipping defaults to 5000k or greater.
dr solomon's software acquired virex and netoctopus from datawatch corp. on 10-oct-97.
the virex trial includes the application, not the control panel.
essential reading for mac programmers.
virusscan is based on disinfectant technology (under licence), and nai are in a  much better position to develop it as commercial-grade software than a group of  well-meaning individuals without the specialised skills and resources of a  mainstream anti-virus development team.
may display a  message if a locked floppy is accessed on an infected system 'the disk  "xxxxx" needs minor repairs.
commercial packages include nav (norton antivirus for macintosh)
triggers on friday 13th.
* list any error messages or  alerts that have appeared.
detection: updates to deal with the worms are available for virex (http://www.drsolomon.com/products/virex/), for nav and sam ( http://www.symantec.com/avcenter/download.html), and for rival (http://www.intego.com/).
8.4 other freeware/shareware packages --------------------------------------
no intentional damage, but can cause several problems - multiple infections, memory errors, system crashes, printing problems, multifinder problems, startup document incompatibilities.
virus-l/comp.virus faq
tel: +44 (0)1296 318700 usa tel: +1 781-273-7400, 1-888-drsolomon compuserve: go drsolomon web: http://www.drsolomon.com
symantec issued a norton antivirus
5.1 computer virus faqs ------------------------
it  works under any version of mac os, if quicktime 2.0 or later is installed and  cd-rom autoplay is enabled in the "quicktime settings" control panel.
on execution, attempts to infect the home stack, which then infects other stacks on access.
it works under any version of mac os, if quicktime 2.0 or later is installed and cd-rom autoplay is enabled in the "quicktime settings" control panel.
major developments in the  sophos product are expected, including smooth large-scale deployment and ease  of updating over networks.[sl] [this section is overdue for serious  refurbishment.
code 9811: hides applications, replacing them with garbage files named "something like 'fidvcxwgjkjwloi'."
this is not a virus scanner, but allows disabling of automacros, listing of any macros found in the current document etc.
no intentional damage, and doesn't spread under system 7.x.
7th january 2000 significant changes from the previous version are flagged with + symbols in the first two columns at the start of the relevant line or section.
there are around 40  mac-specific viruses and related threats.
extensions manager also lets you disable  control panels.
[on may 6th 1998, john norstad, author of this widely-used freeware package announced that it was to be retired.
macmag (aldus, brandow, drew, peace): first distributed as a hypercard stack trojan, but only infected system files.
the disinfectant readme was updated to readme-important on 6 may 1998, with the message, "because of the widespread and dangerous microsoft macro virus problem," "...all disinfectant users should switch..." to another program.
reboot with  extensions disabled (hold down the shift key till an alert box tells you that  extensions are off).
no  other intentional damage is done.
t4-d spreads from application to application on launch by appending  itself to the 'code' resource.
it includes a document that summarizes and gives contact information for a number of other virus-related faqs; (not much mac-specific material).
virex administrator  version 1.4 was released by nai on 23-dec-98.
code 1: file infector.
this faq is very long  and very thorough.
not only do these versions not only understand embedded macros, but they can't  read the word 6 file format unaided.
at least one strain  replaces the home stack script and deletes stacks run subsequently.
however, if you have no interest in pc issues, you probably won't consider it worth the expense.
* dropper - a program that installs a virus or trojan,  often covertly.
more information may be available  from symantec sam support on the web.]
no  intentional damage, and doesn't spread under system 7.x.
a statement like, "please forward  to everyone!" is one mark of a hoax.
here are a few steps that it  might be appropriate to try if virus scanning with an up-to-date scanner finds  nothing.
++office 98 is in general vulnerable to infection by most viruses which affect  corresponding applications in office 97.
expensive (in the uk, at any rate), and whenever you get near some useful info, it refers you to one of the volumes you haven't got.
10.4 jpeg/gif  viruses ----------------------
it's a pc file infector which works with a number of pc executable file formats.
* earlier versions could only handle a limited size of directory tree, and  ran very slowly if a large number of files required scanning.
wormguard by clarence locke  is a free on-access extension that affords autostart worm protection:  the  following free scanners may remove autostart 9805 and its b, c, d, e, and f  variants and may be useful in the absence of a commercial application.
prod: nvir variant scores (eric, vult, nasa, san jose flu): aimed to attack two applications that were never generally released.
macro viruses are therefore highly transmissible via macintoshes, even if they don't have a destructive effect on motorola platforms, if there is an equivalent application available on the macintosh.
it may be worth disabling extensions when you do this, especially if the operation doesn't seem to be completed successfully.
init-m: replicates under system 7 only.
torre avenue cupertino ca 95014 united states +1 408 725  2762 fax: +1 408 253 4992 us support: 541-465-8420 aol: symantec european  support: 31-71-353-111 australian support: 61-2-879-6577http://www.symantec.com/ ftp://ftp.symantec.com/ intego (for rival) 10, rue say 75009 paris france +33 1  49 95 07 80
mcafee compuserve: go naisupport@nai.com ftp://ftp.nai.com/pub/antivirus/mac/http://www.nai.com/ dr. solomon's software ltd. (for dr. solomon's anti-virus toolkit) alton house gatehouse way aylesbury buckinghamshire hp19 3xu united kingdom uk support:support@uk.drsolomon.com us support:support@us.drsolomon.com uk
norton antivirus for macintosh (nav) launched may 18, 1998.
7.4 macro viruses, trojans, variants -------------------------------------
the authors accept no responsibility  for errors or omissions, or for any ill effects resulting from the use of any  information contained in this document.
it's described as a beta release, but the author expects users to register it at a charge of $30 [subsequently reduced to $15]: in return, they get a version which can be used an unlimited number of times.
virex and virex administrator had these home pages:   ++current virex release is 6.0.
more information from microsoft may be available at the  addresses below.
renames the hard drive to "trent saburo".
++sophos anti-virus for macintosh (sav) was upgraded in january 1999  to include the sweep on-demand scanner.
[dh] 8.5 commercial packages  ------------------------
alt.comp.virus is  unmoderated, and the quality of the advice and opinions aired there is very  variable - there are many reputable and expert posters, and many mischievous  and misleading contributions.
] macrolist is freeware, but please be sure to read the trials link.
* list any recent changes in configuration,  additional hardware etc.
the d strain is not  known to be in circulation [sl].
damage: files with names  ending "data", "cod" or "csa" are targeted if the  data fork is larger than 100 bytes.
there  have also been a number of proposals since john norstad announced the  retirement of disinfectant, suggesting that if the code was made public, it  would be possible to maintain and further develop disinfectant, possibly still  as a freeware product.
david harley  3.0 availability of this faq =
sales are not  retail, but direct or through the sophos distributor network.
i have not heard any reports of anyone suffering from this in many years."
it differs from a destructive virus in that it doesn't reproduce, (though this distinction is by no means universally accepted).
there is a copy of what i believe to be the last released version at sherpasoft:  5.7 other resources --------------------
this is poorly implemented and in any case is only triggered when macros are  converted to vba from wordbasic.
it's possible to download them in acrobat and in some cases other  formats from:  where you can also order  hardcopy and cd versions.
under system 6 and 7.0, inits and system  extensions don't load.
according to ken dunham who reported this virus in november, "the most obvious symptom of the virus is a desktop that looks like electronic worms and a message that reads 'you have been hacked by the pretorians.'"
if it's infected with a virus -other- than concept, this could  create problems if the protection tool is bypassed on a subsequent file open.
speed is  certainly still a problem: i can't say about the overflow problem.
ha ha ha ha ha ha ha now erasing all disks...
not all variants are listed here.
no intentional damage, but can cause crashes and damaged files.
++office 98 is in general vulnerable to infection by most viruses which affect corresponding applications in office 97.
viruses that  manipulate text strings within a document may work just as well on a macintosh  as on a pc.
for instance, although word for windows versions before vs. 6  support wordbasic, word versions for the mac up to and including version 5.1 do  not.
besides the original, there are five variants: autostart 9805-b, which is less noticeable but can cause irreparable damage to files of type 'jpeg', 'tiff', and 'epsf';
in addition to the original worm, there are five variants.
++rival 3.0.4 is available from intego.
united states customer care: voice +1 408 988 3832 fax +1 408 970 9727 fax-back automated response system +1 408 988 3034 bbs +1 408 988 4004 america online keyword:
registered users  who bought mcafee virusscan during the past six months or so, and registered  users of virex 5.8 and 5.9 could still upgrade: .
no  intentional damage, but can cause crashes and damaged files.
++f-secure for macintosh is one of the best-kept secrets in anti-virus.
this faq is very long and very thorough.
macmag - hypercard stack (new apple products) that was the origin of the macmag virus.
mac  newsgroups 12.2 references and publications 13.0 mac troubleshooting 1.0  copyright notice =
accidental system crashes possible.
computer virus myths home page  data fellows  scams and hoaxes faq:
autostart 9805-c and autostart 9805-d which do not intentionally damage data; autostart 9805-e which spreads like b and is most similar to the original; and autostart 9805-f which is most similar to a and e. dr solomon's, sophos, and symantec had descriptions on the web:    ++dead mac virus link cleaned.
this will not support  execution of word 6 (or winword 2) macros in word 5.x, so i would not expect  either an infection routine or a payload routine to be able to execute within  this application.
7.1 mac-specific system and file infectors 7.2 hypercard infectors 7.3 mac trojan horses 7.4 macro viruses, trojans, variants 7.5 other operating systems, emulation on a mac 7.6 autostart 9805 worms 7.7 esperanto.4733 8.0
the disk included with the 2nd edition of this excellent general resource includes most of the information available at the university of hamburg (see 5.5).
it attempts to to be  destructive, but fortunately is not well enough written to be more than a  nuisance.
mdef-e and mdef-f: described as simple and benign.
5.0 where to get further  information =
at approximately  6, 10, or 30 minute intervals, it examines mounted volumes to see if they're  infected: if not, it writes itself to the root directory and sets up autostart  (however, autostart won't work on a server volume).
licensed 5.9x users can obtain an upgrade.
you might be lucky and find some reference to it at:  it features on datafellows evaluation cds.
microsoft's excel add-in for the laroux  macro virus causes multiple file open buttons to appear in non-english versions  of excel, and so it has worse effects than the macro virus itself.
5.4 web sites --------------
speed is certainly still a problem: i can't say about the overflow problem.
originally included in versions 2.0/2.1 of the public domain game gomoku.
unfortunately,  the number of known macro viruses runs into several thousand, though the number  in the wild is far fewer.
infects applications, finder, da handler.
10.1 good times virus ----------------------
at approximately 6, 10, or 30 minute intervals, it examines mounted volumes to see if they're infected: if not, it writes itself to the root directory and sets up autostart (however, autostart won't work on a server volume).
nvir variant  that spoofs disinfectant to avoid detection (disinfectant 3.6 recognizes it).
can cause accidental damage to the system file and  menu problems.
init-9403 (sysx): infects applications and finder  under systems 6 and 7.
++this section  may vanish in the near future, or at least contract.
* monitor/behaviour blocker - a tsr that monitors programs while they are running for behaviour which might denote a virus.
precise urls tend to  come and go, but you might like to try the following: symantec antivirus  research center virus encyclopedia based on project vgrep: huge, and now has a  search engine.
not intentionally  damaging but when spreading it overwrites any existing 'wdef' resource of id  '0', an action which might damage some files.
amendments of minor grammatical or syntactical errors  are not flagged unless they affect factual accuracy or clarity.
cpro - supposed to be an update to compact pro, but attempts to format currently mounted disks.
the disk includes a copy of disinfectant 3.6, which is now out-of-date -- 3.7.1 is the latest and final release.
however, configuration is very flexible.
while i'll always help if i can, i should point out (1) i'm an experienced mac user and an it support professional, but i don't claim to be a mac expert (2) pressure of work and other commitments and a huge e-mail turnover means that i can't promise a quick or in-depth response
sam (symantec antivirus  for macintosh) support was discontinued may 1; the last update is for july '99.
expensive (in the uk, at any rate), and whenever you get near  some useful info, it refers you to one of the volumes you haven't got.
this will not support execution of word 6 (or winword 2) macros in word 5.x, so i would not expect either an infection routine or a payload routine to be able to execute within this application.
it should *not* be regarded as being in any sense authoritative, and has no legal standing.
can crash system 7 or damage files, but doesn't spread beyond the system file.
nvir-f: nvir variant.
what's the best antivirus  package for the macintosh?
however, many users are unaware of these distinctions and still assume that disinfectant is a complete solution, even after its effective demise (in fact, there were people still relying on gatekeeper long after its author disowned it....).
office 97/98 include  limited detection of a handful of known viruses during upconversion of macros.
gatekeeper was not a scanner,  but a generic tool.
in brief, office 98 does a better job of implementing a primarily generic approach [i.e. "if it contains macros, it's suspicious: sort it out yourself...."], but whether this is enough is a question demanding more space and time than i have to spare right now.
the basic package includes a  control panel for scanning on file or diskette access which can be locked  independently of the administration package.
++[i'm no longer able to find any reference on intego's site to rival: their efforts seems to be focused on their personal firewall for macintosh.]
however,  the entire macintosh community owes john norstad a debt of gratitude for making  it freely available for so long, an act of altruism which has probably  contributed very significantly to the comparative rarity of native macintosh  viruses.]
on the sixth day of the month, mdef 9806-b may erase all  non-application files on the current volume.
chinatalk - system extension - supposed to be sound driver, but actually deletes folders.
i've done some informal testing (referred to in another paper), but am not prepared to make vendor-specific recommendations on the basis of such testing.
os 9 users will need  the beta control panel available from www.nai.com, to overcome compatibility  problems.
a mac virus guru says: "the postscript 'trojan' was basically a postscript job that toggled the printer password to some random string a number of times.
works under systems 6 and 7.
this version of the faq primarily reflects my involvement in setting up an information resource at icsa.
to obtain such permission, please contact the maintainer of the faq.
flag: unrelated to wdef a and b, but was given the name wdef-c in some anti-virus software.
overwrites stack resources, so a repaired stack may not run properly.
7.5 other operating systems, emulation on a mac ------------------------------------------------
the protection tool traps some file open operations, but not all.
it's  also possible to buy an administration package.
for more information about this book:   [springer] ++very  few books primarily about computer viruses deal at any length with mac viruses  (i can't think of one, at present).
no intentional damage.
complete documentation is in pdf format.
for further information on specific macro  viruses, try one of the information resources given earlier.
untagged sections using the first person are usually attributable to david harley.
the d strain is not known to be in circulation [sl].
independance (sic) day - reported in july, 1997.
scanner (conventional scanner, command-line scanner, on-demand scanner) - a program that looks for known viruses by checking for recognisable patterns ('scan strings', 'search strings', 'signatures') or using a more flexible algorithmic approach for detection of polymorphic viruses, which can't be found by a search for a simple scan string.
a minor variant of mbdf b appeared in summer 1997: disinfectant and virex have been updated accordingly.
the shipping version can be downloaded  for free evaluation.
his program merryxmaswatcher 2.0 was very  popular and still can eradicate the most common two strains, merryxmas and  merry2xmas.
this is an autostart file: i.e. it will run automatically if cd-rom autoplay is enabled.
deletes files other than the system file from  the system folder, and documents, and is termed dangerous.
virus reference 2.1.6  mentions an 'unnamed postscript hack' which disables postscript printers and  requires replacement of a chip on the printer logic board to repair.
mac newsgroups -------------------- comp.sys.mac.apps comp.sys.mac.comm comp.sys.mac.misc comp.sys.mac.system  comp.virusalt.comp.virus
any mac running any sort of  dos or windows emulation such as virtual pc, softpc, softwindows, realpc, or a  dos compatibility card is a potential target for any pc virus, including boot  sector infectors/multipartites; (effects will vary).
nor does it mention any of the subsequently discovered variants.
later implementations built into the application are better on identifying a few specific viruses and on integration into word itself, but should not be relied on for 100% effective detection, blocking and disinfection of macro viruses.
[dh] curiously, the same fallacies have recently been been aired on a unix virus discussion list.
in fact, the online documentation has long stated that the code for the detection engine is not available, though some of the interface code was.
all three applications check files compressed with stuffit.
network associates, formerly mcafee associates: virus information library  macintosh viruses  sophos plc  about.com "macintosh virus desriptions" part of work in progress by ken dunham +  (new domain name) mac virus ++[site closed 5th september 1999]  dr solomon's "mac viral zoo" starting to go out of date  ++keep watching  5.5 virus bulletin -------------------
the disk included with the 2nd  edition of this excellent general resource includes most of the information  available at the university of hamburg (see 5.5).
update the demo with current definitions: .
files  created in word for windows won't be scanned until they've been opened in word  6 for mac (this is a system issue, not a bug in the code).
from time to time there are reports from mac users that the message 'welcome datacomp' appears in their documents without having been typed.
* generic - catch-all name for antivirus software that doesn't  know about individual viruses, but attempts to detect viruses by detecting  virus-like code, behaviour, or changes in files containing executable code.
sam (symantec antivirus for macintosh) support was discontinued may 1; the last update is for july '99.
remember that if removing one stops the problem,  it's still worth putting it back and trying all the others to see if you can  find one it's conflicting with.
10.3 email viruses -------------------
++f-secure for macintosh is one of the best-kept  secrets in anti-virus.
unlike the legitimate  desktop printer spooler extension, the worm file has the invisible attribute  set, and isn't listed as a running process by the system software, though it  can be seen with process watcher or macsbug.
targeted files are attacked by  overwriting the data fork (up to the 1st mb) with garbage.
newsgroups: alt.comp.virus ,comp.virus,comp.sys.mac.apps,comp.sys.mac.misc,comp.sys.mac.system,alt.answers ,comp.answers,news.answers subject: viruses and the mac faq followup-to: alt.comp.virus,comp.virus summary: why viruses are a mac problem, too....
in the early days of virus/antivirus technology, a  number of utilities were made available which addressed only one or a few  viruses, and a proliferation of free autostart worm detectors continues that  honourable tradition.
the main reason for this is that he doesn't have the resources to  extend its capabilities to detect macro viruses, which have become by far the  most significant virus problem for most macintosh users.
on 03-sep-97, macintouch published xavier bury's finding of a second applescript trojan horse, which, like the call for help followup, mentioned hotline servers.
this is misguided, for a number of reasons.
* list any diagnostic/repair packages you've tried, and the results.
there may be an issue with the sophos control panel and some usb drives - not formally tested to date.]
any file virus can be transmitted as an e-mail attachment.
* list any other steps you've taken towards determining the cause of the problem and/or trying to fix it, e.g. rebuilding the desktop, booting without extensions, zapping pram etc.
some  apple laser printers have a firmware counter that allows the password to only  be changed a set number of times (because of pram behavior or licensing -- i  don't remember which), so eventually the password would get "stuck"  at some random string that the user would not know.
a huge e-mail  turnover means that i can't promise a quick or in-depth response
* use find file to search all volumes for all instances of  a file called "db" or "bd" or "deldb" with the  invisibility attribute set (hold down option key when clicking on  "name" pop-up menu to select for visibility).
this virus is not known to be in circulation.
attempts to overwrite whole startup volume and disk information on all connected hard drives.
reboot with extensions disabled (hold down the shift key till an alert box tells you that extensions are off).
it is concerned with one platform only, and though it deals with the macintosh platform at more length than thealt.comp.virus faq can be expected to, it is a great deal shorter.
fifteen minutes after activation.
8.1 microsoft's protection tools --------------------------------- microsoft's macro virus protection tools originally detected concept (nuclear and dmv were also mentioned in the documentation, but were not identified specifically by the tools).
to disable extensions, restart the machine with  the shift key held down until you see an extensions off message.
steroid - control panel - claims to improve quickdraw speed, but actually  mangles the directory structure.
applescripts should be downloaded only from known trusted sources.
the program offers  customizable reporting and notification from an attractive interface.
what's the best antivirus package for the macintosh?
* list any diagnostic/repair packages you've tried,  and the results.
in fact, the information that such and such a virus exists is not, in itself, useful to the average computer user, even if it does.
this  virus has no known with the pc file infector sometimes known as three tunes.
damage: files with names ending "data", "cod" or "csa" are targeted if the data fork is larger than 100 bytes.
[sl] wormscanner by  james walker  autostart  hunter by akira nagata   (english)   (japanese) bugscan by mountain ridge dataworks (also detects sevendust e)   worm gobbler by jim kreinbrink  innoculator by macoffice   wormfood by doug baer  eradicator  with update, by uptown solutions ltd.  as stated  above, one-shot solutions to a very small subset of a particular class of  threat have a long and honourable history, and are very welcome when a new  threat catches the antivirus developers on the hop (it can take some time to  incorporate detection of new threats into the product update cycle).
* the microsoft tools are not useful on non-english windows systems (which may be run under virtual pc or real pc).
++[i suspect that this product has been removed from circulation, but haven't checked with the author.
nvp - modifies the system file so that no vowels can be typed.
watch the web page for further details.
i'll return  to this subject when and if time allows.
virex 5.8 scans zip archives, has a contextual menu plug-in  module, and interface enhancements.
copyright on this document remains with  the author(s), and all rights are reserved.
++n.b.this url may be out of date.
to find a  commercial or shareware package relevant to pcs, check through the independent  comparative reviews sites: university of hamburg virus test center  university of  tampere virus research unit  secure  computing  virus bulletin  + about.com has an aggregation of pc anti-virus  reviews links.
(under anti-virus hobby) - nb change of url.
the  latest version is available from:   but the reference version will eventually be the one at www.eicar.dk (page  currently under construction).
how many viruses affect the macintosh?
this will do the job, but will also infect your system, if the file is infected.
you may have restore changes to some control panels before your  system works properly.
disinfectant was an excellent anti-virus package with exemplary documentation, and didn't cost a penny: however, it didn't detect all the forms of malware that a commercial package usually does, including hypercard infectors, most trojans, jokes or macro viruses.
files created in word for windows won't be scanned until they've been opened in word 6 for mac (this is a system issue, not a bug in the code).
the a strain was also distributed in  obnoxious tetris and ten tile puzzle.
only found on macs running the  italian version of macos.
rebuilding the desktop is by no means a cure-all, but rarely does any harm.
this will affect the availability of the faq.
they can be reached at 800-441-7234 or online at:"  [sam 4.5.x needs the 4.5->4.5.1  application patch to run current definitions, and the 4.5.3 intercept patch to  resolve a compatibility issue with microsoft office 98, and segment loader  errors when intercept loads.
the next version will require extensive url checking, and will probably introduce major formatting changes.
'zapping' pram returns possibly corrupt pram data to default values.
steroid - control panel - claims to improve quickdraw speed, but actually mangles the directory structure.
removal: the easiest and safest method for most people  will be to use the updated version of their favoured anti-virus software, as it  becomes available.
since word 6.x for macintosh supports wordbasic macros, it is as  vulnerable as word 6.x and 7.x on intel platforms to being infected by macro  viruses, and therefore to generating other infected documents (or, strictly  speaking, templates).
[dr. solomon's for the mac detected pc boot sector infectors as well as mac viruses, but didn't detect pc file viruses (apart from macro viruses), and so was not sufficient protection for a mac with dos emulation.]
the program offers customizable reporting and notification from an attractive interface.
prevention: uninfected systems  can be protected by disabling the autostart option in quicktime settings  (quicktime 2.5 or later only - earlier versions don't have a disable option).
however, charging for this particular utility puts it  into the same arena as the commercial scanners which detect a far wider range  of threats and for which full support is available, an area in which it cannot  at present compete.
it's described as a beta  release, but the author expects users to register it at a charge of $30  [subsequently reduced to $15]: in return, they get a version which can be used  an unlimited number of times.
complete documentation is in pdf  format.
the virus masquerades as disinfectant, so as to spoof behaviour blockers such as gatekeeper.
when run, infected the system file, which then infected system files on floppies.
[nav supersedes sam (symantec antivirus for macintosh)], virex for  macintosh, rival, and sophos anti-virus for macintosh (sav).
if the reset values aren't retained, the battery may need replacing.
files infected with a pc-specific file virus (this excludes macro viruses) can only execute on a macintosh running dos or dos/windows emulation, if then.
displays the message "dukakis for  president", then deletes itself, so not often seen.
it's a pc file infector which works with a number  of pc executable file formats.
between 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on the sixth and  twelfth day of any month, the virus will try to delete all non-application  files on the startup disk.
subsequent reports indicate that this belief results from  misinformation on the part of the author.
* which  applications you're using, and which version.
some mac viruses may damage files on sun systems running mae or aufs.
7.5 other  operating systems, emulation on a mac  ------------------------------------------------
other sources:       (under virus information)
audio cds can't transmit the virus, and it isn't necessary to disable "audio cd autoplay".
++virusscan 3.0.1 is the final version for macintosh,  and may be updated for macro viruses into 1999, but will never have autostart  worm definitions or definitions for the new system viruses like sevendust e.  virusscan customers need to take advantage of a free upgrade to virex as soon  as possible.
contact virus bulletin for further  information on the annual conference and on obtaining the proceedings.
launched may 18, 1998.
frankie: only affects the aladdin emulator on the atari or amiga.
[thus word 5.1 users can not be directly infected, but may, like anyone, pass on infected documents to vulnerable systems.]] network associates, symantec, and intego all make known-virus scanners that detect a range of macro viruses.
mcafee compuserve: go naisupport@nai.com  ftp://ftp.nai.com/pub/antivirus/mac/http://www.nai.com/ dr. solomon's software  ltd. (for dr. solomon's anti-virus toolkit) alton house gatehouse way aylesbury  buckinghamshire hp19 3xu united kingdom uk support:support@uk.drsolomon.com us  support:support@us.drsolomon.com uk
they are included here (a) because mac support staff are  accustomed to being asked about them (b) because anything that -might- work on  a real pc -might- also work with dos emulation, in principle.
in any case, the main costs of virus control are not recovery from virus payloads, but the costs of establishing detection and protection (or of not establishing them).
there  is no modem virus that spreads via an undocumented subcarrier - whatever that  means....
fontfinder - supposed to lists fonts used in a document, but actually deletes folders.
disinfectant  and virex have been updated accordingly.
ciac bulletin i-067 is based on eugene spafford's information release on the original autostart worm.
this issue will probably be addressed again here in more depth.
* earlier versions could only handle a limited size of directory tree, and ran very slowly if a large number of files required scanning.
here are a few steps that it might be appropriate to try if virus scanning with an up-to-date scanner finds nothing.
microsoft's excel add-in for the laroux macro virus causes multiple file open buttons to appear in non-english versions of excel, and so it has worse effects than the macro virus itself.
ciac bulletin  i-067 is based on eugene spafford's information release on the original  autostart worm.
again this applies to windows emulation; however, most virus protection and detection products are only tested in an english language environment, and may cause problems on non-english systems.
-- end "viruses and the macintosh" version 1.6a by  david harley user contributions: comment about this article, ask questions, or add new information about  this topic: name:
the protection tool traps some file  open operations, but not all.
good times  virus 10.2 modems and hardware viruses 10.3 email viruses 10.4 jpeg/gif viruses  10.5 hoaxes help 11.0 glossary 12.0 general reference section 12.1
the pentagon abingdon ox14 3yp england +44 1235 555139  the proceedings of the 1997 virus bulletin conference contained a paper by david harley which significantly expands on many of the issues addressed in this faq.
the best choice depends on subjective criteria and individal needs.
init 17: infects system file and applications.
10.1 good times virus  ----------------------
readme-important was updated again on 11 october 1998, adding, "in addition to the autostart worm and the microsoft macro viruses, several other new mac viruses have appeared since disinfectant's retirement in may.
john dalgliesh has created agax, an extensible, free anti-virus program which replaces his program antigax, and uses plug-ins called "additives."
the last versions of virusscan for mac and  disinfectant did not detect autostart.
john dalgliesh describes "graphics  accelerator" on his web page for antigax, a free anti-sevendust e utility;  any errors here in translation are not his.
macintouch home page (info  and services)  macweek.com (have run  macintouch columns about the autostart worms.)
[ken dunham  discovered the merryxmas virus.
however, leaving such an infected disk in the drive while booting an emulator such as softpc can mean that the virus attempts to infect the logical pc drive with unpredictable results.
damage to infected files and altered system is not repairable by disinfectant.
the cursor moves diagonally and uncontrollably across the screen when the mouse button is held down when an infected application is run.
many major vendors have a virus information database online on their web sites.
it will probably  be available shortly from  there are html versions at:     i have no control over the  content of these sites, and can't guarantee that they're up-to-date.
the  maintainer does not currently have the time or resources to do full detection  testing of these products (or any other).
merryxmaswatcher 2.0 is outdated for the rest this family.]
it may not be  reproduced for profit or distributed in part or as a whole with any product for  which a charge is made, except with the prior permission of the copyright  holder(s).
3.7.1 is the latest and last version, and  it won't be updated to detect autostart 9805 or any subsequent macintosh  malware.
[sorry: next time round, guys....] 9.0 welcome datacomp =
microsoft make available a free 'protection tool' whose effectiveness  is often overestimated.
-help others by sharing your knowledge viruses and the macintosh =
secondary distribution of infected documents may result in: * civil action - for instance, inadvertent distribution of an infected document to external organisations may be in breach of contractual obligations * legal action in terms of breach of data-protection legislation such as the uk data protection act or the european data protection directive.
f-prot, avp, and dr solomon's are  particularly well-regarded pc antivirus packages, of which some components on  some platforms are available as freeware or for evaluation, but their efficacy  in the context of pc emulation is not well tested or documented.
it attempts to to be destructive, but fortunately is not well enough written to be more than a nuisance.
files with names ending "dat" are  targeted if the whole file is c. 2mb or larger.
it is concerned with one platform only, and though it deals with the  macintosh platform at more length than thealt.comp.virus faq can be expected  to, it is a great deal shorter.
for other  freeware\shareware mac packages, try info-mac mirrors like:  the university of texas holds  some older documentation on mac viruses.
commercial packages include nav (norton antivirus for  macintosh)
hc "two tunes" (referred to by some sources as  "three tunes") - infects stack scripts.
on triggering, displays visual effects or hangs the system.
in particular,  check that your web browser doesn't automatically pass word documents to word 6  to open, since this may result in embedded macros being launched.
the excel add-in for macs removes only laroux a and b.
virusscan is based on disinfectant technology (under licence), and nai are in a much better position to develop it as commercial-grade software than a group of well-meaning individuals without the specialised skills and resources of a mainstream anti-virus development team.
since questions about macs and viruses tend to appear more often in the mac groups thanalt.comp.virus or virus-l, distribution of this faq is wider.
virus test center, hamburg: antivirus catalog/carobase early work    these links may be out-of-date: if they don't work, try  last we checked [03-sep-97], these sites probably need updating, though some older files do have historical value.
even benign viruses  (apparently non-destructive viruses) cause significant damage by occupying disk  space and/or main memory, by using up cpu processing time, by introducing the  risk of incompatibilities and conflicts, and by the time and expense wasted in  detecting and removing them.
[sorry: next time  round, guys....] 9.0 welcome datacomp =
triggered (displayed a  peace message and self-deleted on march 2nd 1988, so very rarely found.
this probably doesn't belong here.
on execution, attempts to infect the home  stack, which then infects other stacks on access.
welcome datacomp 10.0 hoaxes and myths 10.1
sevendust e,  not to be confused with the legitimate ati driver "graphics  accelerator", began as a trojan horse released to info-mac and deleted  there on or about september 26, 1998.
"power macintosh emergency handbook" (apple computer)  macfixit "troubleshooting for the macintosh"  "sad macs, bombs and other disasters" ted landau (addison wesley)  macintouch home page (info and services)  macweek.com (have run macintouch columns about the autostart worms.)
however, it's strictly speaking a limited-runtime demo -- it stops  functioning after 20 trial runs on one system.
at the time of the longstanding second-to-last upgrade of disinfectant (version 3.6 in early 1995), there were no known macro viruses in the wild, apart from hypercard infectors.
* change detectors/checksummers/integrity  checkers - programs that keep a database of the characteristics of all  executable files on a system and check for changes which might signify an  attack by an unknown virus.
scanner 1.1x also by ioannis galidakis was released 15-jan-99, and is a free, generic, heuristic 68k virus scanner for advanced macintosh users.
nav, sam, and virex offer checksumming/integrity checking (detecting possible infection by unknown viruses, by monitoring changes in infectable files) - the correct checksums or fingerprints for individual files are kept in a database file.
the virus  masquerades as disinfectant, so as to spoof behaviour blockers such as  gatekeeper.
++the reference site for this faq is now www.icsa.net.
there are excellent pages on hypercard  viruses at hyperactive software.
infects system files, applications, and document files (document files can't infect other files, though).
audio cds can't transmit the virus, and it  isn't necessary to disable "audio cd autoplay".
messages you don't want to post  corporates who haven't sorted  out their hoax management strategy might get some mileage out of my mini-paper  on "dealing with internet hoaxes", though it's getting a bit long in  the tooth.
the shipping version can be downloaded for free evaluation.
most macro viruses (if they have a warhead at all)  target intel platforms and assume fat-based directory structures, so they  usually have no discernible effect on macs when they trigger.
however, it may be freely distributed and quoted - accurately, and with due credit.
without (normally) risk to the mac.
virex administrator version 1.4 was released by nai on 23-dec-98.
no intended effects, but may damage the home stack.
macintoshes and clones driven by motorola 680x0 series cpus can't run the replicative code.
since word 6.x for macintosh supports wordbasic macros, it is as vulnerable as word 6.x and 7.x on intel platforms to being infected by macro viruses, and therefore to generating other infected documents (or, strictly speaking, templates).
any mac running any sort of dos or windows emulation such as virtual pc, softpc, softwindows, realpc, or a dos compatibility card is a potential target for any pc virus, including boot sector infectors/multipartites; (effects will vary).
sensibly configured mailers and browsers don't allow this: check yours.
* trojan (trojan horse) - a program intended to perform some covert and usually malicious act that the victim did not expect or want.
if you don't have extensions manager, try now utilities or conflict catcher.
recommendations for  defending pc systems or pc emulation on macs are slightly out-of-scope for this  faq.
hc 9603 - infects  the home stack, then other running stacks.
can cause various forms of accidental damage.
disinfectant was an excellent anti-virus package with exemplary  documentation, and didn't cost a penny: however, it didn't detect all the forms  of malware that a commercial package usually does, including hypercard  infectors, most trojans, jokes or macro viruses.
ncam: nvir variant nvir (nvir a, b, c - aids,  fuck, hpat, jude, mev#, nflu): infect system and any opened applications.
[probably obsolete info.]
damages files by renaming them,  changing file type and file creator, creation and modification dates, and  sometimes by deleting them.
10.4 jpeg/gif viruses ----------------------
all known macro viruses, some only found in research labs, some in the wild.
font: monospace arial verdana tahoma times
remember that if removing one stops the problem, it's still worth putting it back and trying all the others to see if you can find one it's conflicting with.
++intego has a limited-function french demo of rival, "minirival."
you may have restore changes to some control panels before your system works properly.
some mac viruses may damage files on sun systems running mae  or aufs.
rarely, may delete files.
12.2  references and publications --------------------------------- sensei consulting  macintosh wais archives   "inside the apple macintosh" - peter norton & jim heid (brady)  (the 2nd edition is pre-powermac, and i haven't seen a later one, but there's  some surprisingly useful stuff in there).
these are not  usually associated with the macintosh platform, but there are word macro  viruses which exhibit mutation.
payload is either beeping or  (nvir a) saying "don't panic" if macintalk is installed.
the next version will require extensive url checking,  and will probably introduce major formatting changes.
can damage applications  so that they can't be 100% repaired.
not intentionally damaging but when spreading it overwrites any existing 'wdef' resource of id '0', an action which might damage some files.
the  disinfectant readme was updated to readme-important on 6 may 1998, with the  message, "because of the widespread and dangerous microsoft macro virus  problem," "...all disinfectant users should switch..." to  another program.
[the following absolute urls may change: such is the way of web  administrators.....
when it was first seen, it was reported to be a  multiplatform virus capable of executing under some circumstances on  macintoshes.
* dropper - a program that installs a virus or trojan, often covertly.
with system 7, hold down command-option-p-r at bootup until the mac beeps and restarts.
the author's web  page and documentation invite mac programmers to contribute additives.
the exorcist, free from laffey computer imaging, may give some (by one description, about 90%) protection from the sevendust family.
] macrolist is freeware, but  please be sure to read the trials link.
most viruses are comparatively harmless, and may be present for years with no noticeable effect: some, however, may cause random damage to data files (sometimes insidiously, over a long period) or attempt to destroy files and disks.
symantec (www.symantec.com),  network associates (www.nai.com), sophos (www.sophos.com) and dr. solomon's  (www.drsolomon.com) include macintosh virus information.
some general books on the mac touch on the subject, but none i can think of add anything useful.
it only detects a handful of mac system viruses which the author claims that commercial vendors have not detected, and have not been reported in the wild.
++office 98 applications are in principle vulnerable to  most of the threats to which office 97 applications are vulnerable.
note also that the possibility of  virus-infected files embedded as objects in files associated with other  applications: this possibility exists on any platform that supports ole.
this document is intended to help individuals with computer virus-related problems and queries, and clarify the issue of computer viruses on macintosh platforms.
there are a number of ways of opening a document  which bypass it, some of which are rather commonly used (e.g. double-clicking  or using the recent documents list).
network associates (nai) acquired dr solomon's on 13-aug-98.
robert michael slade's lists may also be helpful.
*  infected files embedded in ole2 files or e-mail files will not be detected.
principally, they merely warned users that the document they are about to open contained macros and offered the choice of opening the file without macros, opening it with macros, or cancelling the file open.
it is no longer supported by its author, but is still  available on some sites.
+ extensionconflict - supposed to identify extensions conflicts, but installs one of the six sevendust a.k.a.
the latest version is available from:  but the reference version will eventually be the one at www.eicar.dk (page currently under construction).
while i'll always help if i can, i should point out (1)
this is poorly implemented and in any case is only triggered when macros are converted to vba from wordbasic.
according to ken dunham who reported this virus in  november, "the most obvious symptom of the virus is a desktop that looks  like electronic worms and a message that reads 'you have been hacked by the  pretorians.'"
corrections and additional material are  welcome, especially if kept polite....
autostart 9805 is not a virus, but a worm: that is, it replicates by copying itself, but doesn't attach itself parasitically to a host program.
no  intentional damage, but can cause several problems - multiple infections,  memory errors, system crashes, printing problems, multifinder problems, startup  document incompatibilities.
mac newsgroups -------------------- comp.sys.mac.apps comp.sys.mac.comm comp.sys.mac.misc comp.sys.mac.system comp.virusalt.comp.virus
antibody is a recent virus-hunting virus which propagates between stacks checking for and removing merryxmas, and inserting an inoculation script.
virus bulletin, july, 1998, includes a  comprehensive analysis of autostart and some of its variants.
extensions manager also lets you disable control panels.
doesn't include information on individual viruses apart from name and platform, and somewhat irregularly maintained.
the  expensive (but, for the professional, essential) periodical virus bulletin  includes mac-specific information from time to time.
damage to  infected files and altered system is not repairable by disinfectant.
native mac viruses are rather rarely seen nowadays, and most people don't need to know about them in detail -- in fact, what they need most is to know that their favoured antivirus software will deal with them.
originally found masquerading as 'new look', which redesigns the display.
the new copy is renamed "desktop print spooler" or "desktop printr spooler", or "deldesktop print spooler" respectively (type appe, creator ????).
nondestructive but spreads; infected  stacks blink once per second starting in january, 1999.
if  you should receive a virus warning, look at these sites before forwarding it  along (in fact, it's probably never justified to pass on a virus alert  indiscriminately, and reputable antivirus companies don't do this.
12.0 general reference section ==
all three  applications check files compressed with stuffit.
(i'm  paraphrasing from memory: i may well check out exactly what it says for the  next update of the faq.)
with system 7, hold down command-option-p-r at bootup until the mac beeps and  restarts.
wormguard by clarence locke is a free on-access extension that affords autostart worm protection:  the following free scanners may remove autostart 9805 and its b, c, d, e, and f variants and may be useful in the absence of a commercial application.
compuserve genie america online calvacom delphi bix info-mac mirrors in the ../vir/
for presales and upgrade questions, please contact customer service.
10.0 hoaxes and myths ==
note that i'm not primarily in the business of hands-on virus analysis, and cannot accept responsibility for descriptive errors based on third-party information.
[thanks to eric hildum for this information.]
scanner (conventional scanner, command-line scanner,  on-demand scanner) - a program that looks for known viruses by checking for  recognisable patterns ('scan strings', 'search strings', 'signatures') or using  a more flexible algorithmic approach for detection of polymorphic viruses,  which can't be found by a search for a simple scan string.
the original took hold rapidly in hong kong and taiwan in april  1998, and has been reported on at least four continents.
8.1 microsoft's protection tools 8.2 disinfectant retired 8.3 demo software 8.4 other freeware/shareware packages 8.5 commercial packages 8.6 contact details 9.0
* it misses  one of the main points of norstad's announcement, which is to acknowledge the  dangers of continuing to develop a scanner which detects only one class of  virus, when so many people have laboured so long under the misapprehension that  it was a complete solution.
+ extensionconflict - supposed to identify extensions conflicts,  but installs one of the six sevendust a.k.a.
at least one strain replaces the home stack script and deletes stacks run subsequently.
disinfectant -has- been developed further.
it is, however, one of the few papers on the subject which deals  with it from an adminstrator's/manager's point of view as well as from an  everyday user/victim's.
if you're using word, it may be  critical to know whether you're using version 6 or later, or an earlier  version.
cpro -  supposed to be an update to compact pro, but attempts to format currently  mounted disks.
i don't know of a macro virus with a mac-specific payload that actually works at present, but such a payload is entirely possible.
* disable autostart in quicktime settings control panel.
welcome datacomp 10.0 hoaxes and myths 10.1 good times virus 10.2 modems and hardware viruses 10.3 email viruses 10.4 jpeg/gif viruses 10.5 hoaxes help 11.0 glossary 12.0 general reference section 12.1 mac newsgroups 12.2 references and publications 13.0 mac troubleshooting 1.0 copyright notice =
fax: +33 1 49 95 07 83 email:rival@intego.com  http://www.intego.com/
there is information on hypercard infectors, a  link to bill swagerty's free vaccine utility for detecting and cleaning them, a  note on false positives reported by commercial software, inoculation, and a  free hypercard virus detection service.
there have also been a number of proposals since john norstad announced the retirement of disinfectant, suggesting that if the code was made public, it would be possible to maintain and further develop disinfectant, possibly still as a freeware product.
it may be worth  disabling extensions when you do this, especially if the operation doesn't seem  to be completed successfully.
it is, however, one of the few papers on the subject which deals with it from an adminstrator's/manager's point of view as well as from an everyday user/victim's.
for other freeware\shareware mac packages, try info-mac mirrors like:  the university of texas holds some older documentation on mac viruses.
in january 1997 padgett peterson, author of the pc utility disksecure, released the first version of his macrolist macro detection tool, which has been tested by the author on macs (system 7.5 on se/30, iici and powermac) as well as windows pcs, using considerably more macro viruses than microsoft seem to have heard of.....
john dalgliesh describes "graphics accelerator" on his web page for antigax, a free anti-sevendust e utility; any errors here in translation are not his.
the latest version may be found at:    5.2 eicar  ---------- ++dr solomon's anti-virus toolkit, virex, and nav (norton antivirus  for macintosh) now support the eicar test.
++[i'm no longer able to find any  reference on intego's site to rival: their efforts seems to be focused on their  personal firewall for macintosh.]
server-based on-access scanning has long been available for mac clients on nt or netware networks.
dos diskettes infected with a boot sector virus can be read on a mac with apple file exchange, pc exchange, dos mounter etc.
if you should receive a virus warning, look at these sites before forwarding it along (in fact, it's probably never justified to pass on a virus alert indiscriminately, and reputable antivirus companies don't do this.
the virus-l/comp.virus  faq (also fairly low on mac-specific information) is regularly posted to the  comp.virus newsgroup (version 2.0 at time of writing).
computer virus faq for new users a mainly non-mac  virus faq posted tonews.newusers.questions, alt.newbie, alt.newbies, alt.answers , andnews.answers.
it reportedly sends out private information while running in the background.
[on may 6th 1998, john norstad, author of this widely-used freeware package  announced that it was to be retired.
the only cure  is to replace the keyboard (be polite but firm with the dealer if you were sold  this as a new keyboard!).
3.7.1 is the latest and last version, and it won't be updated to detect autostart 9805 or any subsequent macintosh malware.
[v1.1 and the office 97 "late  beta" were available as at 18th march 1997.
* trojan (trojan horse) - a program intended to  perform some covert and usually malicious act that the victim did not expect or  want.
in any case, disinfectant was always intended to deal with system  viruses, not trojans or macro/script viruses.
computer virus myths home page  data fellows  scams and  hoaxes faq:
comp.virus lies dormant for  years at a time, but is well worth watching when there's anything there.
this is the result of using a trojanised 3rd-party mac-compatible keyboard with this 'joke' hard-coded into the keyboard rom.
in any case, the main costs of virus control are not recovery from  virus payloads, but the costs of establishing detection and protection (or of  not establishing them).
these are not usually associated with the macintosh platform, but there are word macro viruses which exhibit mutation.
* list any recent changes in configuration, additional hardware etc.
more information at:  blink - reported in august, 1998.
++microsoft's home page has recommended using an icsa-certified antivirus  utility and sidesteps any hint of responsibility for any macro virus or  scanprot related problems.
the new copy is renamed "desktop print  spooler" or "desktop printr spooler", or "deldesktop print  spooler" respectively (type appe, creator ????).
works  under systems 6 and 7.
infects  application files and the finder.
this is an autostart file: i.e. it will run automatically if cd-rom  autoplay is enabled.
besides the  original, there are five variants: autostart 9805-b, which is less noticeable  but can cause irreparable damage to files of type 'jpeg', 'tiff', and 'epsf';  autostart 9805-c and autostart 9805-d which do not intentionally damage data;  autostart 9805-e which spreads like b and is most similar to the original; and  autostart 9805-f which is most similar to a and e. dr solomon's, sophos, and  symantec had descriptions on the web:      ++dead mac virus  link cleaned.
there may be an issue with the sophos  control panel and some usb drives - not formally tested to date.]
8.4 other  freeware/shareware packages --------------------------------------
this will affect the  availability of the faq.
accidental damage, especially on 68k machines.
unfortunately, the quality of virus-related information in such publications is generally low, and there are few or no books on computer viruses in general which are both recent -and- accurate.
windows 95 users should be aware that scanprot is not recommended for use with  ms word 7.0a for windows with internal detection enabled, as these two tools  will cancel each other out.
there is no known way in which a virus could  sensibly be spread by a graphics file such as a jpeg or .gif file, which does  not contain executable code.
no  intentional damage.
installation and interface are easy and efficient.
the pentagon abingdon ox14 3yp england +44 1235 555139  the proceedings of the 1997 virus bulletin  conference contained a paper by david harley which significantly expands on  many of the issues addressed in this faq.
ftp: ftp://ftp.drsolomon.com
this should also prevent infection by future malware exploiting the same  loophole, but will fail if a setup is booted from a volume with an infected  extensions folder [sl].
robert michael  slade's lists may also be helpful.
the original took hold rapidly in hong kong and taiwan in april 1998, and has been reported on at least four continents.
there is, however, at least one freeware utility which allows word 5.x users to read word 6 files.
as ever, we can't give a definitive answer to this.
if you're rebuilding the desktop, release the shift key and hold down command (the key with the apple outline icon) & options (alt) until requested to confirm that you want to rebuild.
virex offers very fast scanning is easy to update, and includes checksumming for the detection of unknown viruses.
if you're using nav, for instance, what version?
* use find file to search all volumes for all instances of a file called "db" or "bd" or "deldb" with the invisibility attribute set (hold down option key when clicking on "name" pop-up menu to select for visibility).
vesselin bontchev has considered macro upconversion at some length in papers for virus bulletin and eicar conferences.
macro viruses work because the files to which they are attached are not 'pure' data files.
network associates has a 30-day  fully-functioning evaluation version of virex 5.9.1.
fax: +33 1 49 95 07 83 email:rival@intego.com http://www.intego.com/ sophos plc (for sophos anti-virus)
sections tagged  with [dh] or [sl] are hangovers from the time when maintenance of the faq was  shared between david harley and susan lesch, and usually denote personal  opinions the originator didn't feel the other maintainer should be held  responsible for.
torre avenue cupertino ca 95014 united states +1 408 725 2762 fax: +1 408 253 4992 us support: 541-465-8420 aol: symantec european support: 31-71-353-111 australian support: 61-2-879-6577http://www.symantec.com/ ftp://ftp.symantec.com/ intego (for rival) 10, rue say 75009 paris france +33 1 49 95 07 80
(no longer accessible) msn: go macrovirustool aol: the word forum compuserve: the word forum microsoft product support services 206-462-9673 (winword) 206-635-7200 (word mac) email:wordinfo@microsoft.com
recommendations for defending pc systems or pc emulation on macs are slightly out-of-scope for this faq.
there are a few reported instances of failures by some of these programs to identify or remove the autostart worms, and it is likely that d might be mis-identified as c, and e may be mis-identified as the original worm.
10.3 email viruses  -------------------
there is information on hypercard infectors, a link to bill swagerty's free vaccine utility for detecting and cleaning them, a note on false positives reported by commercial software, inoculation, and a free hypercard virus detection service.
[this seems to have disappeared, along  with rival itself - 11-12-99]
in fact, i don't know of any formal testing for pc antivirus software in the context of pc emulation on macs.
which, if any, antivirus packages you use, and what version number.
other sources:        (under virus  information)
in addition to the  original worm, there are five variants.
i am aware of at least one instance of a mac diskette which, when read  on a pc running a utility for reading mac-formatted disks after being infected  with a boot-sector infector, became unreadable as a consequence of the boot  track infection.
it is highly recommended that anyone with such a system should run a reputable, up-to-date pc antivirus program under emulation, as well as a good mac antivirus program.
to find a commercial or shareware package relevant to pcs, check through the independent comparative reviews sites: university of hamburg virus test center  university of tampere virus research unit  secure computing  virus bulletin  + about.com has an aggregation of pc anti-virus reviews links.
this document is a little different to thealt.comp.virus faq, which david harley also co-maintains (at time of writing).
what viruses can affect mac users?
free technical  support is all-year round, any time of day.
the worms can be also be removed manually.
the pentagon abingdon oxon england ox14 3yp us support: +1-888-sophos-9 uk support: +44-1235-559933 http://www.sophos.com/ ++details on datafellows will be included when i've determined the current status of f-secure for macintosh.
mac virus ++[site closed 5th september 1999]
despite the message, no intentional damage is done, though shutting down the mac instead of clicking to continue could cause damage.
sevendust e, not to be confused with the legitimate ati driver "graphics accelerator", began as a trojan horse released to info-mac and deleted there on or about september 26, 1998.
from symantec's advice: "in order to maintain the safety and security of  your data from viruses without interruption, we recommend that you upgrade to  navm 5.0.3 before may 1st.
12.2 references and publications --------------------------------- sensei consulting macintosh wais archives  "inside the apple macintosh" - peter norton & jim heid (brady) (the 2nd edition is pre-powermac, and i haven't seen a later one, but there's some surprisingly useful stuff in there).
sevendust f uses a trojan  "extensionconflict", common extensions names, and creator 'acce'.[sl]  t4 (a, b, c, d): infects applications, finder, and tries to modify system so  that startup code is altered.
virex and virex administrator had  these home pages:    ++current virex  release is 6.0.
protection from the sevendust family.
f-prot, avp, and dr solomon's are particularly well-regarded pc antivirus packages, of which some components on some platforms are available as freeware or for evaluation, but their efficacy in the context of pc emulation is not well tested or documented.
after copying itself, it reboots the system and is now launched every time the system restarts.
however, if you have no  interest in pc issues, you probably won't consider it worth the expense.
this faq originated from a concern over the spread of macro viruses, a theme that is taken up below.
if the host mac isn't already infected, it copies itself to the extensions folder.
dr solomon's software ltd.  central command  network associates  data fellows  ++richard martin put together an faq on the subject of word viruses.
no intentional damage, but causes beeping, crashes, font corruption and other problems.
the (may 1998) sam definitions files included a read me with instructions.
however, icsa does not currently certify mac products, though this is being looked at.
* virus - a program (a block of executable code) that attaches itself to, overwrites or otherwise replaces another program in order to reproduce itself without the knowledge of the computer user.
even sources which describe this virus as "three tunes" seem to describe the symptoms consistently with the description here, but we will, for completeness, attempt to resolve any possible confusion when time allows.
symptoms: perhaps the most noticeable symptom of the worms is that an  infected system will _lock up and churn with unexplained disk activity_
these are a somewhat esoteric breed, but a couple have  been seen since disinfectant was last upgraded in 1995, and most of the  commercial scanners detect them.
visual/audio effects: 'hey,  what are you doing?' message; plays the tune "muss i denn"; plays the  tune "behind the blue mountains"; displays hypercard toolbox and  pattern menus; displays 'don't panic!'
++microsoft's home page has recommended using an icsa-certified antivirus utility and sidesteps any hint of responsibility for any macro virus or scanprot related problems.
this issue will probably be addressed again here in more  depth.
code 9811: hides  applications, replacing them with garbage files named "something like  'fidvcxwgjkjwloi'."