mac os x is significantly better than windows vista.
and there are at least ten good reasons why schools should not use computers based on what businesses use.
" response:just not so.
if you have any constructive comments or suggestions about this page, please emailjohn.
secondly, for business and school related application usage, the performance of macs is equal to orbetter than high-end pcs.
based on the nature of this site, i will continue to periodically add new  information as warranted, and when i have the time.
macs can also run a windows or linux operating systemsimultaneously, for free, essentially providing two+ computers for the price of one.
(every section page has a  date at the bottom so you can see its version.)
contentions about our statistics being outdated, about the quantity of mac software available, about apple single-sourceness, etc. are simply not legitimate.learn more! myth #6 "pcs are faster than macs" response:first of all, in a school setting, speed is hardly paramount.
and more... now that we’re rolling, i’ve added some other pages to fill out the picture even more: mis management everything you want to know about microsoft testers and switchers what pc advocates aren’t saying why use macs — summary
why macs are the best choice: our local school district’s (publicly made) explanations for  abandoning our $10,000,000± mac investment, center around the following  contentions: myth #1 "windows/pcs are cheaper.
furthermore, macs are more secure — e.g. they are much less prone to virus attacks.
learn  more! myth #4 "there have been problems with our existing macs." response: macs are very reliable.
for instance, compared to windows pcs, the mac os is easier to learn, requires fewer keystrokes for similar tasks, and results in much higher user productivity.
mac  os x is significantly better than windows vista.
but educating students on computers involves much more than exposing them to windows.
and more... now that we’re rolling, i’ve added some other  pages to fill out the picture even more: mis  management everything you want to know about microsoft testers and switchers what  pc advocates aren’t saying why use macs —  summary please note: in our attempt to keep things brief and to the point, our position pages  provide only a representative sample of the available research.
the sources of the research data presented here are not only schools, but  alsobusinesses (i.e. the places that supposedly only use pcs).
contentions about our statistics  being outdated, about the quantity of mac software available, about apple  single-sourceness, etc. are simply not legitimate.learn more! myth #6 "pcs are faster than macs" response:first of all, in a school setting, speed is hardly paramount.
learn more! myth #3 "students need a windows/pc experience." ( variation: "schools should be using windows/pcs since more businesses do.") response: agree that windows experience could be worthwhile!
learn more! myth #4 "there have been problems with our existing macs." response: macs are very reliable.
furthermore, i have primarily chosen places that have had first hand experience  with both the windows and macintosh computer platforms.
for  instance, compared to windows pcs, the mac os is easier to learn, requires  fewer keystrokes for similar tasks, and results in much higher user  productivity.
despite sometimes having a slightly higher initial purchase cost, macintosh computers have substantially lower total cost of ownership.
but educating students on computers involves  much more than exposing them to windows.
compared to  windows pcs, macs are much easier to support — and whenproperly  maintained, they experience far fewer problems.
" response: there are big differences.
furthermore, macs are  more secure — e.g. they are much less prone to virus attacks.
and there are at least ten good  reasons why schools should not use computers based on what businesses use.
learn more! myth #5 "mac statistics are outdated, etc." response: in communications with school mis personnel, an  assortment of other mac criticisms came out.
despite sometimes having a slightly  higher initial purchase cost, macintosh computers have substantially lower total cost of ownership.
why macs are the best choice: our local school district’s (publicly made) explanations for abandoning our $10,000,000± mac investment, center around the following contentions: myth #1 "windows/pcs are cheaper.
compared to windows pcs, macs are much easier to support — and whenproperly maintained, they experience far fewer problems.
learn more! myth #5 "mac statistics are outdated, etc." response: in communications with school mis personnel, an assortment of other mac criticisms came out.
if you have any constructive comments or suggestions about this page,  please emailjohn.
learn more! myth #2 "there’s no real difference between macs and  pcs.
is this still true for windows vista?
macs can also run a windows or linux  operating systemsimultaneously, for free, essentially  providing two+ computers for the price of one.
learn more! myth #3 "students need a windows/pc experience." ( variation: "schools should be using windows/pcs since more  businesses do.") response: agree that windows  experience could be worthwhile!
secondly, for business and school related application usage, the performance of  macs is equal to orbetter than high-end pcs.
learn more! myth #2 "there’s no real difference between macs and pcs.