for $120 or so you can load 5 computers with the latest and greatest.
i'm not comparing them to any other current companies offerings because i can not (other then the hp/compaq models we had years ago maybe).
in all seriousness, what do you guys actually do with your macs that justifies the expense?
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:3, informative) by frdmfghtr (603968) writes: in all seriousness, what do you guys actually do with your macs that justifies the expense?
as you yourself so eloquently explain, running windows as non-admin is a pita (requiring sudo equivalents and changed configurations); furthermore, youstill can't install most apps without having an admin password.
well, guess it went over one of our heads.
i'll leave it to the user to hunt them down because i haven't used any of them for monitoring.
you can get the cursor to anywhere on the screen in a fraction of a second, and you don't have to move your hands from t - - re: scrolling (score:3, funny) by teknohog (164938) writes: back in my day, we used the arrow and pgup/dn keys for scrolling through long documents.
im sure the asus has at least some of those.
- absence of any stickers plastered all over it to provide useless fcc crap.
if you want titties and beer, buy a macbook.
my macbook pro is far more stylish and compact than almost every other equivalently priced windows notebooks.
- a single mouse button was never a good idea.
we hosted a plone sprint and training session here, and it was about 70% macbook pros (we converted one guy halfway though, and i bought a new mbp then as well).
(i'm low on the totem pole, so i have a plain black macbook.)
that's as fast as any of my workstations save one.
in other words, 1 laptop out of every 18, not out of every 5.
(score:5, insightful) by 0100010001010011 (652467)
submission: apple now sells more than one in six laptops google and others sued for automating email this discussion has been archived.
i can run all three os's at once without any problem and get realistic performance from all of them.
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:2) by cp.tar (871488) writes: from what i saw at best buy this weekend, i think the sales may go up even more.
i have yet to actually see anyone with a zune.
does it have a remote?
apple is further hampered by their policy of selling their own os on their own hardware, while gateway piggybacked on the success of windows.
(let's see vista on a 7 year old machine.)
she'd never seen a mac before, has no clear idea about brands and stuff, yet immediately recognized that it looked cooler than the other computers she's seen.
when i got my powerbook a few years back it was almost a grand more than many other laptops (sony vaios and some upper end thinkpads aside), but the difference is i am still using it, and despite having it get pulled off a desk by my dog twice and being dropped, bumped, and lugged around to 3 jobs, clients houses, and college classes it is still working great.
couple that level of cool with os x
homepage journal i live in boston, mass. and here it seems that most of the computers are macs (as far as laptops go).
(that said, my next purchase is likely to be a mac book pro 15".)
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:3, insightful) by xero314 (722674) writes: os x really sucks for kids as my boss has just discovered.
and if you add it all up, there is a good chunk of value in there, easily enough to justify the extra 400-500 for a lot of people.
she has a macbook and the software really is crap.
i'm no zealot, i'm a business man.
or the fair and growing number of native games.
he wanted a mac, i got him a mac and well... one for myself too.
let's see the actual numbers that include direct order.
i have no affilliation with either of the companies i mentioned, nor do i own any of their products.
share twitter facebook - rtfa, lying with statistics... (score:5, informative) by anonymous coward writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @07:47pm (#20392593)
no new comments can be posted.
parent share twitter facebook - more to come (score:5, interesting) by mordors9 (665662) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:37pm (#20391847)
or the fact that you can just buy a console and play all the same games people are playing anyway.
macs, if you use them heavily, need regular maintenance to keep them running smoothly.
you get to keep all of the good design decisions, throw away or refactor all of the bad design decisions, and do it without any backward compatibility restrictions.
people really need to stop using win9x arguments against winnt.
i tell you, it's a good laptop, and considering it has the absolute top of the line intel has to offer in terms of mobile processors, plus 2 gigs of main mem, plus all the normal fun stuff, it's worth the 2.5 thou.
get my work done without having to spend time periodically running spyware scanners, disk defragmenters, and not periodically wiping the hard drive and reinstalling the os because some software didn't uninstall correctly and left a messed-up registry or some other lingering problem that required the aforementioned wipe and reinstall.
he's a huge troll who frequently brings his sock puppet "erris" into discussions when he gets modded down.
> also, does this prove the ipod's halo effect is real?
it has nothing to do with pc vs. mac, apple simply makes excellent machines.
" 100 of 767 comments loaded twitter facebook apple macbook usa ← related links → transitioning from developer to management?
parent share twitter facebook - re:mac + parallels ==
i just quit smoking :) - re: (score:2, insightful) by bronscon (927697) writes:
in any event, this doesn't really get me excited, as i'm even less inclined to buy into apple's expensive machines when i can run freebsd or linux on the cheapest of the cheap laptops and be very happy.
my mac runs smoothly all the time, and the only "maintenance" i do is backing it up regularly.
every dot release is actually a major upgrade like from windows 3.1 - 95, 95 - 98, 98 - me (that may not be a good example), me - xp, xp - vista (perhaps an other bad exam - re apple os license (score:5, informative) by macrat (638047) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @09:41pm (#20393555)
most decent software is free anyway.
then someone told me i could buy a macbook pro for that kind of money anyway.
turned out, oh, yes, really.
and this is the newer model without the battery problems.
thinkpads are simplythe most solid laptops money can buy.
:-) - - re:college kids (score:5, insightful) by your.
if mom and dad offer to buy you a computer for college, are you going to choose the pc or the mac that comes with a great mp3 player?
i just bought my first mac.
in boston more like 50-70% (score:3, interesting) by tibbonzero (571809) writes:  on tuesday august 28 2007, @08:35pm (#20393059)
i had a t-23 for 2 years and a t-40 for 2 years, both had their hard drives replaced multiple times, the t-40 had it's entirety replaced separately.
share twitter facebook - quality and intel (score:3, interesting) by jwiegley (520444)
but i know people enough who want a mac as well.
withparallels [parallels.com] "coherence" mode, i'm in the osx filesystem for the images and other files i use under windows, but i have the mac right there doing the right things for everything else.
parent share twitter facebook - re:college kids (score:5, interesting) by datapharmer (1099455) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @07:08pm (#20392203)
that's not to say that this isn't impressive, but how about keeping the sensationalism down a bit?
if you're too stupid to figure out the different functions of two to five mouse buttons then you shouldn't be allowed to have a computer and you should stick with pencil and paper.
you are hardly screwed.
this is many times better than the crappy plastic dell, alienware and even asus (which i hugely respect for quality engineering) will sell you.
if pc laptops with an extra mouse button are so g - - re:college kids (score:5, interesting) by fyngyrz (762201)
" 100 of 767 comments loaded twitter  facebook apple macbook usa transitioning from developer to management?
parent share twitter facebook - re:college kids (score:4, insightful) by cmowire (254489) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:45pm (#20391939)
you shouldn't complain on what you clearly don't know anything about.
but i doubt it has most of them.
but my mac just never crashes.
on my roomies computer, so the damn xp rig would actually work again.
- cat confusion... (score:3, funny) by rizzo320 (911761) writes: i'm thinking that person means panther... if it's a really old cat, it's a jaguar... and if it's a puma, well, it should be put to sleep.
homepage that overload is going to have to get a hell of a lot cheaper in order for me to accept it.
the reality of course is much different.
that's the reason you see apple gaining ground.
- neodynium magnetic power jack.
at any time, they can remotely lock the computer and send a message to the kid to report to the principals office.
it's not just that the hardware is better, the bootcamp deal gives people al the motivation they need if they have the money.
this is a testament to how well os x has supported older hardware.
here's a post that sums up a lot about twitter--posting it so that perhaps a few more people might be alerted to twitter's activities!http://slashdot.org/comments.pl?sid=198321&cid=16 2 64293
- college kids (score:4, interesting) by plusfiveinsightful (1148175)
just program os/x to do the same thing should either button be pressed to make the mac zealots happy and then for other operating system bred people you could send the normal left/right/middle events.
- outgrowing the nipple (score:3, insightful) by superkendall (25149)
hinges operate crisply and smoothly.
in the time it took me to collect the money, it was out of stock - mostly everywhere (in croatia).
and the included ibm software is really very useful (like active protection system for your hard drives) unlike usual oem crap.
now that the laptop market has become so important, apple is in a great position to capitalize on their previously under-exploited brand identity.
for years, they've always had these cute little panasonic/toshiba/sony/sanrio/whoever laptops that we never see at stores in the us (except at shirokiya in honolulu, i guess).
slashdot stories slash boxes comments join log in submit story jobs newsletter library nickname: password: public terminal forgot your password?
here's why: i can open up a bunch of ssh and x11 sessions to a remote server over wi-fi, close the lid and throw it in my back-pack, go eat lunch, come back and open the lid, and all of my remote x11 apps and sessions are still alive.
- interesting - funny the fine print: the following comments are owned by whoever posted them.
why would a machine ship with a beta os?
(score:2, interesting) by rueger (210566)
what you end up with is os x.
it has a sudo equivalent ("run as") for admin tasks, just like unix, you can configure it to allow writes only to your home folder, just like unix, you can install untrusted applications within your home folder, just like unix.
there's nothing not to like about this hardware.
i never thought i'd ever see any "american" brand become that popular with the japanese scientists.
i like it better than a button, but my wife hates it.
in june apple was responsible for 17.6% of laptops sold (at retail) in the us and is now in third place behind hp and toshiba.
in/create an account comments filter: - all - insightful - informative
unfortunately i was there to buy a washer and dryer...
lucas123 writes "apple's share of the laptop market has grown over the past few years andthe company is now beating gateway in sales, according research firm npd group inc. in port washington, ny. '
your other option is to return it to the owners, which, depending on the business model, could be a dividend or a withdrawal or whatever, and you might be an owner, in which case, you can still legitimately think "how can i spend this?"
facebook - lies, damned lies, and statistics (score:5, informative) by mikm (752717) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:39pm (#20391867)
parent share twitter facebook - re:more to come (score:5, funny) by ncraig (773500) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:59pm (#20392111) sounds like a big day...
also apple has good word of mouth advertising and a loyal fan base.
now, say you chose nextstep as the basis for your perfect operating system and desktop environment.
well dammit, i *am* excited about how well it works for me!
- why were linux users so enthusiastic about nextstep-derived window managers, such aswindowmaker [akropolix.net] and afterstep
i'm only having some trouble installing linux on it, but i'll get there, too.
for most of those who yearn to escape microsoft's bumbling clutches, the orchard is definitely more inviting than the herring-scented wilds of linuxland.
quite funny, actually :)
hell, you could argue that microsoft's is busted.
haven't needed to reboot except for patches (adobe and windows update).
all pc users can come up with is that macs are slow, they cr - linux on macbook pro's (score:2) by timeoday (582209) writes: many of my co-workers are now using 30" apple displays on the macbook pro's (even though they spend most of their time in windows through parallels).
i've bought a couple of hps (most recent one was the "lance armstrong special") and i've not had any issues with either of them.
if you can't get excited about buying a matching washer/dryer set then you've just lost your taste for life.
i've never bought a mac product before i bought a mac mini.
except for a more expensive version with vista, and i'm not that stupid.
homepage i too, used to laugh at apple fanboys.
(it is also what is going to allow them to significantly penetrate the server and high-performance computing markets over then next five years.)
the only reason i want people to convert, is i know it would be for *their* own good, not for validation of myself as a fanboy.
(though its footprint is much bigger too.)
- re:college kids (score:5, informative) by c0rinthian (770164)
writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @08:49pm (#20393175)
writes: on wednesday august 29 2007, @12:01am (#20394553)
if you prefer os x or linux that's fine, but don't act like security is the reason you're not on windows and that you have to keep it separate from the net; i've had the same windows xp install running for over a year and it runs as well as when i installed it, and there's no spyware.
we are not responsible for them in any way.
that gets you an 8600m gpu, 2.2ghz core 2 duo cpu, and 5400 rpm drive.
let me preface my comments by saying that i have not used in a mac in 6 years or more.
- re: (score:3, interesting) by dakkus (567781) writes: confirmed here, too.
os x is a joy to use, and coupled with an ag-hvx200, final cut studio, and a couple of big external drives... and i am a production unit on the go.
and to upgrade, you throw them in the bin and buy a new one.
© 2012 all rights reserved.
it doesn't have ports of most of the stuff i like to use (freenx, amarok, kuake, beryl, kate) and the windows alternatives seem klunky and annoying to me.
don't set it on your lap if you have shorts.
we sell dell laptops as well, but price/preformance is crap compared to mac, and most of the students here are commuters, who will gladly pay $999 for a well-eqquiped computer that only weighs 5 pounds and fits into just about any backpack.
if you want to join the chess club, buy a pc.
(dvd±r dl/dvd±rw/cd-rw) # intel gma 950 - re: (score:3, interesting) by g-funk (22712) writes: and you're dreaming if you think that $600 difference didn't go into cheaper internal components and / or an ugly plastic case.
writes: this will get modded flamebait, but i doubt that this bump in sales will be sustainable.
to say os x sucks for kids is just down right stupid (regardless of the other posts that show how you can feed you paranoia on os x just as well as on windows).
i bought it because it was small, silent, and had all the power necessary to be theserver i need it to be.
well, then you're not in apple's target market.
share twitter facebook - re: (score:2) by decs (891519) writes: npd's numbers only cover most retail stores (although they don't include major retailers like walmart), and exclude apple's own retail stores.
don't get me wrong, i'm not a mac fanboy, and i'm not saying a mac is right for everyone.
so crash free, virus free, and great performance, it's a dream come true for me.
and a mid-to-high range nvidia 8600gt with enough speed and ram to run anything graphical and support direct x 10 on vista, which you can boot up natively like a charm with apple software?
i want my people to be productive and i want my people to enjoy their work.
- great sound, even from the speakers - solid feel.
there are many chipsets out there without (or only partial) mac/unix/linux support.
everything just works, in general.
i have some cheap usb hardware (wireless network dongle, bluetooth, etc).
compviz/beryl for instance is way better than the eye-candy offered by either os/x or vista these days.
share twitter facebook - re:gateway is the company to beat (like a dead hor (score:3, insightful) by virusequalsveryyes (981719) writes: the music industry's business model is busted.
and last but not least: 1 install dvd for ppc 32 bit, ppc 64 bit, intel 32 bit & intel 64 bit with complete binary compatibility between all versions.
for some solutions for mac os x 10.0 to 10.4 take a lookhere [pure-mac.com].
slashdot archived discussion moderate moderator help
so... does the asus have firewire?
journal a question for you: what is it about os x that makes it good for audio/video/graphic work?
- re: (score:3, informative) by jcgf (688310) writes: macs have always been considered as overpriced.
parent share twitter facebook - re:college kids (score:5, interesting) by penguin's advocate (126803) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @08:15pm (#20392847)
that's the vista black hole of suck effect.
- old and busted (score:3, informative) by superkendall (25149)
does it have a magnetic release on the power-cord?
writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @09:39pm (#20393539)
being happy with apple products using itunes and checking the apple web site every once in a while to see what is new or going to the apple store or to the apple section of the stores they will see other apples product seeing their products knowing you are happy with the brand you are more likely to get that brand.
the first time i brought it home and pulled it out of my bag, my four year old daughter - who is used to various desktops, lcd and crt monitors, my and my wife's thinkpads, and the toshiba tecra i had at my previous employer - immediately popped it with "wow, that's a cool computer!"
parent share twitter facebook - re:at retail... (score:5, interesting) by photoguy (189467) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @08:26pm (#20392977)
os x really sucks for kids as my boss has just discovered.
and, as i have karma to spare... ... impeach bus - re:college kids (score:5, funny) by croddy (659025) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:44pm (#20391927) or, it could simply be that they are genuinelyafraid of dells.
they just want it to work.
i can't understand why people like them, is it like a cult or something?
if you were to spec a dell or asus that matches on all the 2ndary features, the price premium for apple is a pittance.
t - re:college kids (score:4, interesting) by jellomizer (103300) * writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @07:14pm (#20392267)
the simple truth is that at least for ibm (now levno) laptops and hp... and probably others...
however, that means apple's outside retail sales have jumped by nearly double.
- incredibly bright led backlit screen.
for a measly $100 bucks you can add an oem windows in a separate boot partition and run all your windows directx games.
people can have their own opinions based on a neighbor or a relative but my experience is from a real data with a significant quantity that we support on a daily basis.
their it department is top notch and tracks the students' activities thoroughly.
people can talk their employer into buying them a macbook, instead of being issued a winblows machine.
pair that up with the fact that their design team is solid and is producing exceptional quality designs such as the ipod line and the iphone.
share twitter facebook - re:college kids (score:5, funny) by tackhead (54550) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:37pm (#20391841)
go into any coffeeshop, and well, it's all macs.
if it were most other machines it would be in the garbage.
they're probably selling them to people with 6 or 7 year old macs.
parent share twitter facebook - re:college kids (score:4, interesting) by anonymous coward writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @08:40pm (#20393097)
as for writing code for vista.
it's the fastest laptop i've ever owned and yet it is also the thinnest.
geeknet, inc. - faq - story archive - hall of fame - advertising - terms - privacy - about - feedback if you have problems or questions with slashdot, email us at feedback at this domain.
an imac may look great, but its usefulness as a signifier of taste is constrained by the simply fact that it stays in your room.
there may be more comments in this discussion.
over the past couple of years, apple seem to be have been slowly but steadilygetting it right in a sustained manner that i suspect will come more clearly to fruition when leopard is released in october.
a couple people at my office have the new thinkpads, but far more now have macbooks or macbook pros.
(a few gotchas, but *very* few as compared to xp.)
it just works best for what i do.
sounds about even for 499 more, right?
submission: apple now sells more than one in six laptops google  and others sued for automating email this discussion has been  archived.
a product that outclassed the competition by a mile.
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:3, interesting) by jshort (1140435) writes: i work at the bookstore at my college, and i recomend mac laptops to almost everybody who comes in here.
i can't find anything.
yeah, it's called the "cult of heterosexual men and lesbians".
in other words, apple sells 1 laptop in 20 (in the usa; it's closer to 1 in 50 if you look at global numbers), not 1 in 6.
you seem like a smart guy.
let me counter with another anecdote: with the next patch release, the intel mac build of world of warcraft will be able to record in-game video, filter out the ui, and encode to a variety of codecs and compression levels in the background.
parent share twitter
what if i want to play a game here and there?
- - - re: (score:3, insightful) by tehdaemon (753808) writes:
writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @09:06pm (#20393291)
parent share twitter facebook - re:college kids (score:5, interesting) by kestasjk (933987) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @09:49pm (#20393615)
it's about unix, x, and boot camp/parallels/vmware.
there was a steady stream of people and you could feel a sense of excitement about it.
i've got ten fingers and i can move them independently.
i do, and it's perfectly usable.
is it a better deal than an apple?
for another few bucks you can get parallels or vmware fusion and run most applications from inside windows on top of osx, including some directx stuff.
titties (.y.) and beer!
homepage most college kids i see at coffee shops have a mac notebook... i guess apple's strategy of marketing to younger people is finally paying off.
but to be even more fair, so did my brother, and he - re: (score:3, funny) by sokoban (142301) writes: haha, well, if you actually like the nipple i guess you're stuck.
(and parallels lets me run any old legacy thing i need, which turns out only to be msn webcam, and little else.)
as much as the geek in me would love to find an excuse to get a s - - re: (score:3, funny) by anonymous meoward (665631) writes: yeah.
but apple certainly could have put two buttons under the mouse bar, one under each end.
parent share twitter facebook - - - re:mac + parallels ==
that's a matter of opinion.
on windows, it will either ignore it or bring up a manufacturer-specific control panel.
(firewire 800 no less?)
i admit that it is an acquired taste, rather than a cult.
from what i've seen in the last few weeks, they are still regarded as such, but to a much lesser extent - a year ago, there was not a single topic about macs on the largest croatian forum; now there are quite a few, and most are about macbooks.
my windows box has yet to crash.
apple has certainly burst into this market, but dell's products are literally bursting.
plus, the risky gamble of allowing people to run windows on their macbooks really did work out.
i think the implications is the other way.
maybe you don't care about a system getting faster, being more stable, and having lots more features, but the typical computer user considers those things to be, well, the - - re:don't forget.
the really amusing thing is that i really like ms office on the mac a hundred times better than on windows.
for me on the other hand is that it is the only laptop that actually runs unix out of the box with a functional desktop, without constant headaches for drivers and all.
this is as close to my case as could be expected.
having a busted business model doesn't mean that a company is small or easy to beat.
it's not about ipods and it's not about vista.
parent share twitter facebook - - re: (score:2) by ditoa (952847) writes: i just bought a dell vostro 1500.
at least the mighty mouse fixes a lot of this.
hell, my office has 70% of the people carrying iphones (and that was true the first week they were out).
a year ago i relented and bought myself a macbook pro, today's lenovo thinkpads don't even compare.
writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @07:35pm (#20392509) three years ago i helped my parents find a great deal on a dell laptop for my sister, who was just heading off to college at nyu.
x then i would suggest doing some research into the features that madenextstep a compelling unix desktop and workstation in the 90s
the networking situatio - re: (score:3, informative) by serviscope_minor (664417) writes: in any event, this doesn't really get me excited, as i'm even less inclined to buy into apple's expensive machines when i can run freebsd or linux on the cheapest of the cheap laptops and be very happy.
most people i known once they switch to mac and allow themselves to get use to it are actually very happy with their mac, and they repeat buy.
comments owned by the poster.
again, i don't much care what the rest of the world does as long as my experience and working environment keep improving.
they have screens in their office which flips through the screens of all students on the school network.
nothing seems to bend where it shouldn't.
that said, if i were in the market for a notebook today, it'd most likely be a mac.
my 4 macs were seen as oddities down there.
and that's before we get into the ease of use, virus situation, unix under the hood, and other soft advantages of the mac os platform.
what's odd is that i lived in north carolina for about 8 months, and most of the computers there were windows-based pcs.
instead i bought a asus laptop with 2gb of ram, a 7200rpm hd, a core 2 duo 2 ghz and a nvidia geforce 8600m gpu.
(i don't own one and won't based on cost and that i have a good pda phone but my colleague has one and i've tried it out
the problem for apple is that they, and the fanboys, are selling the product as perfection, as complete out of the box, as seamless and needing no attention beyond plugging in the power supply once a day.
the build quality is just not there compared to apple.
a better docking interface (such as power on the same side as dvi/usb) would have been a good idea.)
(as opposed to "fiddle with a computer.")
- - re: (score:3, insightful) by stewbacca (1033764) writes: i can speak as an "evangelist" (your words, not mine).
that probably represents just 15% of the market but it's an important 15% and giving those people better tools to do what they do is going to be beneficial for everyone.
so i am not a zealot.
it made their os flexible, scalable and more open to community involvement.
a santa rosa macbook pro.
we have seen no difference in the quality of these laptops over the years.
the professor who used to have a sparc, a pcand a ppc mac in his office now just does his number-crunching and scientific visualization on an 8-core mac pro with dual 30" displays, and takes a macbook pro places with him.
parent share twitter facebook - - - re:computers should last for more than a year.
that's your assertion, so i assume you have at least of some reason to believe it.
delete - get more comments - 100 of 767 loaded
it's too bad that more market share for apple doesn't translate into more open hardware specs instead of "we support windowsand mac os.
no, we complain about windows, just like windows users complain about windows, because windows just sucks.
and i have no idea what you're talking about when you say that "heavy usage" implies "regular maintenance".
for those that are familiar with ibm and lenovo, you will notice some of those laptops were pure ibm, some hybrids, and some are pure lenovo.
these price ranges a lot of people are using these and realize they like they way that apple does things.
apple has mac os license support subscription options for companies of all sizes.
because the - re:college kids (score:5, interesting) by mycoupons (1148887) writes:  on tuesday august 28 2007, @07:00pm ( #20392121)
and, no offense, calling each release of os x a service pack is just ...
traditional news media's business model is busted.
maybe it's just the huge number of 'creatives' in the city, but it seems that around nyc and boston, that apple's pretty well taken over.
since the lenovo thinkpad is not the ibm thinkpad, the best is now the macbook pro.
at the end of the day, i don't care if people convert, as long as it's there for me.
writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @09:48pm (#20393609)
the only people who get a dell recomendation are certian business and engineer - laptop as status symbol (score:5, insightful) by graymocker (753063)
i have to admit that system restore saved my can on more than one occasion, but it b - re: (score:3, interesting) by frumious wombat (845680) writes: keynote.
close close search 767 comments log
homepage most of us manage to run windows on the net confidently.
this quarter is back to school, and next is ch - re: (score:3, informative) by rui del-negro (531098) writes: also, the numbers from idc (also mentioned in the article) put apple's share at 5.6%, not 17.6%: research firm idc also has apple in the third spot; data it released last month put apple's share of u.s. sales at 5.6%, far behind leaders hp (28.4%) and dell (23.6%) but tied with gateway.
but neither of them suited me.
so you go with apple.
but i felt i should point out that the mbp did have a 2.4ghz processor whereas the vostro has a 2.2ghz.
as far as i know, most bluetooth adapters do work, particularly the dlink ones.
if you have to hate, hate gently.
homepage i'm (non-teaching) graduate-level support staff in astronomy at a state university known for its graduate-level astronomy program, and from what i see among the post-docs, professors and staff i work with, both at the university and elsewhere through collaborations, i think apple's market share in some of the sciences is significantly better than one-in-six laptops, and has been for the last few years.
share twitter facebook -
(yes, i've tripped over, and destroyed, power cables before.
well, there was no looking back!
it was terrible when the macintosh was launched and never got better.
apple still beat them out.
getting 6-7 years of useful life out of a mac is quite common.
as far as i'm concerned, vista was dead at the starting line.
the application menu constrained to the top of the screen hides information present in other applications and forces the user to either learn all the shortcut keys or suffer rediculous amounts of additional mouse travel.
a crap dell of for a few hundred more something that won't burn down the dorm room), small enough to put in a backpack (there is a lot of wasted screen real-estate compared to the powerbook, but alas they still get the job done), and are powerful enough to do almost anything a college class could require (except maybe some 3d graphics work - fcp works fine).
t41,43,60,61,62 and x30,31 and maybe a few oddballs in there.
for enough years to be pretty cynical about all corporations and technology cheerleaders but i bought a macbook pro about two months ago and am surprised to have come to the conclusion that it's the best piece of hardware i've ever owned.
you do know that apple sells family packs of the os, right?
in addition to that, they have hit the sweetest spots on both desktop and laptop markets with their high-end intel based hardware.
cool points never entered into it for me.
i don't mean that in a fevered, evangelical way because, really, i don't care what the rest of the world uses but for me, personally, switching has made a big difference to my productivity and enjoyment of computers - i'd kind of forgotten the excitement i used to feel back in the day.
i use osx almost exclusively now, but i've had some very solid xp installations, and at work our win2003 server regularly matches our freebsd server for uptime (poor power being the main limiting factor)
(score:4, informative) by kestasjk(933987) writes: on wednesday august 29 2007, @02:05pm (#20402547)
homepage it is definitely not my reason for owning a macbook, but i heard that several times: ".... and it can also run windows if i really need it for something ....."
but my mac justnever crashes.
writes:  on wednesday august 29 2007, @02:18am ( #20395309)
i cant remember the last time i did a virus scan or a defrag...
in june apple was responsible for 17.6% of  laptops sold (at retail) in the us and is now in third place behind hp and  toshiba.
ok, so why do i like it (a lot)?
also you should realize after a new version of the os is released of os x they still support the old ones and you still get upgrades and update to the os.
homepage clearly spoken by someone who doesn't use windows as a non-admin.
undeniably number-one support.
when you plug a new display in to a mac or (newish) pc, the hardware detects it and the driver can handle this event in some way.
and i recently both purchased laptops of almost identical performance.
yes that is an over used term, but in this case it is warranted.
it's not the ipod effect, it's the *vista* effect (score:2) by zooblethorpe(686757) writes: my $0.02 armchair guesstimate is that vista's resounding belly flop is helping apple's sales figures.
when choosing whether to move the company from xp to vista or just to a mac, if i can pull it off financially, mac it will be and vista will never make it in the door.
the linux install is allowed on the net because it considerably more secure "out there" than windows is.
so i get to run windows natively and work remotely and do it fast.. - fast nvidia gpu.
earlier this month, i actually worked with three of them one night, and they brought 2 laptops with them - both macs.
- re:college kids (score:5, informative) by graff (532189) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @07:49pm (#20392621)
trademarks property of their respective owners.
still i doubt that 200mhz will make that much difference in the long run.
people with win-laptops often seem to be a bit ashamed of their decision.
i think their desktop sales will go up as well - for one, when i finish college and start earning real money, i'm switching my desktop to mac, too.
though a desktop is largely perceived as an appliance - it's an utilitarian box that you use to do stuff with - a laptop has the additional function of being a status symbol and expression of personal taste.
parent share twitter facebook - - re: (score:3, interesting) by penguin's advocate (126803) writes: haha, well, if you actually like the nipple i guess you're stuck.
with vista firmly planted on the rocks, apple are in a strongest position they have been in since the original mac.
look for an os x logo on it, although what mac did you buy recently that didn't have bluetooth built in?
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:3, insightful) by iroll (717924) writes: huh, because i thought his point was that he wanted to invest in productivity.
just because you can't figure it out and just because it isn't windows doesn't mean it sucks.
i'm writing this on a four year old g4 tibook that continues to run and run and run...
heck, you can also run vista on one, if you must!
no windows has suck for a long time.
i think a lot of people are discovering that os x just works, and doesnt need the sort of tinkering and maintenance that windows rigs generally do to stay in top running shape.
i completely understand if it's just that it's aesthetically pleasing, too, i have an impractical car that runs fast and looks cool.
apple now selling better than one laptop in six 767 posted by  kdawson on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:30pm from the  little-fruit-that-could dept.
(score:4, insightful) by dindi (78034) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @07:44pm (#20392571)
or just a/b/g? is the keyboard backlit?
first you say that os x sucks for kids and then you go one to prove this my talking about how your bosses paranoia is not supported by os x. i know many kids, as young as 18 months that use os x all the time.
there are some child monitoring solutions out for mac os x.
i am no fanboy, used windows (games, dev) linux and bsd (most everything else) in the past, now i bought the second macbook pro model and i am blown away by the quality of the hardware.
ceph (863988) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:55pm ( #20392069)
* i switched to linux back in 1994 parent share twitter facebook - - - re: (score:3, interesting) by irc.goatse.cx troll (593289) writes: i like my ipod for the most part, but itunes is probably the worst part.
no, it's the windows black hole of suck effect.
being that they are in
(score:5, insightful) by lkm(227954) writes: on wednesday august 29 2007, @06:30am (#20396341)
vista just made things worse.
i was _very_ tempted at a macbook or macbook pro
if you're confused as to why some choose os
close binspam dupe notthebest offtopic slownewsday stale stupid fresh funny insightful interesting maybe offtopic flamebait troll redundant overrated insightful interesting informative funny underrated descriptive typo dupe error slashdot - ask slashdot - book reviews - games - idle - yro - cloud - hardware - linux - management - mobile - science - security - storage 269097 story apple now selling better than one laptop in six 767 posted by kdawson on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:30pm from the little-fruit-that-could dept.
this post was typed on a compaq notebook. ...
windows in general is all over the place and working just fine.
disclaimer: i only pay for decent software after testing it.
this made them profitable and restored people's trust in apple producing a reliable, desirable product.
we won't be writing any applications using vista specific capabilities, either.
my god.. a real wireless card that actually supports passive monitoring?
as soon as she saw it.
windows - - re: (score:3, insightful) by stewbacca (1033764) writes: i personally hate the mac interface ...
that is very different to how it works on macs (or on some linux flavours).
both died completely after their respective warranties expired.
macs have some - re: (score:3, informative) by ummit (248909) writes: i won't mod you as flamebait (no mod points today), but i will respond to this bit: macs crash just like a windows computer.
the macbook pro may be more powerful than the vostro
there is already plenty of man-boob and drinking to go around.
- re:more to come (score:5, funny) by feepness (543479) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:46pm (#20391945)
entourage is actually pretty cool (when compared to outlook or devolution) and after learning it i love it.
unfortunately, you are pretty well screwed on usb unless the peripheral is of some standard device class that apple supports (e.g. keyboard, mouse, hard drive, most cameras) or apple has provided support for it.
so why do you judge a hardware platform/os combination based on a 3rd party app that wasn't ported properly?
when the family got together for the holidays i asked her how the computer was working out; she complained to me that all the cool kids had macbooks and she was "embarrassed to be seen in public with the ugly dell next to all the sleek macs."
i admin servers and develop mostly for lamp web, if you wondered, and yes i also enjoy having a decent dvd player program with a remote under unix (yes mplayer + lirc + whatever - but i mean out of the box, not after 3 days of hacking)
- built in 802.11n and bluetooth - 2.4 core 2 duo processors.
os x just works damn well on apple's laptop hardware.
and i use it almost exclusively now.
you most likely will not have any luck here.
- the os/x user interface is crap.
apple made three pivotal moves: read the rest of this comment...
parent share twitter facebook - - re:college kids (score:5, informative) by vux984 (928602) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @07:28pm (#20392443)
windows got better not macs crashing a lot.
now that you see and know the specs for say an apple notebook you go out and compare prices of pcs vs apples based on apples specs and you find they are competitive price (if you compare apples to pc specs they are apples are expensive)
the numbers in the summary do not include direct sales (i.e., nearly all corporate buys) or internet sales.
no, it proves that people who would have bought an ibm thinkpad want the best.
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:2) by the great pretender (975978) writes: "apple's share of the laptop market has grown over the past few years and the company is now beating gateway in sales.
but what of the long term?
it takes practice and some getting used to (perhaps even building a small callous on your index finger), but the efficiency of the trackpoint is just orders of magnitude better than a touchpad.
on os x, it will automatically configure the display and restore the last settings from when you had a display with the same settings plugged in.
there is a linux port, but it needs 2.6.x, and is still in beta.
(score:2) by bluesman (104513) writes: snore.
your desktop stays at home, but you can carry your laptop around with you.
go to your favorite torrent side and download it, if it's only for playing games, who gives a shit?
steve jobs understands that things need to just work, period, they need to be straight forward and easy to use and great design is important.
and you have a winner, so apple's surging laptop market share doesn't surprise me.
from what i saw at best buy this weekend, i think the sales may go up even more.
i respect, love and use linux every day, but when you face all the little quirks of a laptop when trying to put linux on it (especially a new one) you know what i am talking about.
outgrew the nipple (no matter how intuitive the use of it might seem).
since the lenovo thinkpad is not the ibm thinkpad, the best is now the macbook pro. or, anything at this point is just conjecture and this is nothing more than a small market fluctuation, the meaning of which we won't know for years to come.
for instance: - why tim berners-lee chose nextstep as the platform on which to develop the world's first web browser and web server [w3.org].
so apples market share is the trigger point for company buy outs....interesting - re:college kids (score:5, interesting) by cp.tar (871488) writes:  on tuesday august 28 2007, @07:04pm (#20392167) journal no, it proves that people who would have bought an ibm thinkpad want the best.
but it's about five times faster.
and it's a good design.)
they're almost identically specced, although mine's a slightly less powerful dx10 video card, his has slightly more balls but is dx9.
- glitz wise they just aren't keeping up.
a single mouse button was never a good idea.
for the last time: mac os x is (thankfully) not windows.
after 17 years of using ms-dos and then windows... i am loving being an "apple fanboi" and i cant see going back to windows for anything other than the occasional game.
(i've spent hours searching mailing lists)
the also exclude online stores like amazon and apple, and direct marketers like dell.
i'm not an ati fan but either way, great graphics
my thinkpad barely made it through 2 years, my brother still uses his ibook (this is now ~6 years later).
personally, i'd buy an expensive laptop and run linux or freebsd on it, since i value things like light weight, long battery life and fans that don't sound like a turbojet.
i hate windows but my cad program is only available for windows.
they are at the price point parents can afford to get their kids (i mean seriously....
slight bump up on the cpu, but a hit on hd speed.
what lead to the development ofgnustep
[slashdot.org] and just fwiw, i agree with you about xp.
whatever; i just didn't want to pay for windows.
parent share twitter facebook - - re: (score:3, informative) by rizzo320 (911761) writes: i'll volunteer to answer your questions to the best of my ability.
cheers, - gateway is the company to beat (like a dead horse) (score:5, interesting) by the.
at first your comment seemed like a funny snark.
haven't you heard, mac's run on intel now.
homepage yeah, a non-admin account on windows.
why is this the case?
however as horrible as it is, i'm still looking into buying a macbook pro, simply because it seems like a well made piece of hardware that will run what i want on it, in addition to letting - - re: (score:3, funny) by bram (490) writes: what's up with buying a windows licence??
sure, apple probably will see quite a jump by the holiday season but microsoft have simply dominated the market for too long to be pushed aside - the vast majority of people don't knowand don't care to know much about computers and will happily "upgrade" to vista when their existing machines die.
the vostro i ordered was a 2.2ghz core2duo, 2gb ram (667mhz), 160gb 7200rpm hdd, 15.4" 1440x900 screen - re: (score:2) by ditoa (952847) writes: apologies for replying to myself
why should i have to be limited to operating a computer like i have mittens on one hand?
apple was quite profitable, and had a huge cash reserve, well before the ipod when they were just selling imacs and os x.
if anything i would say it would be the ipod halo effect...
- re: (score:3, interesting) by debest (471937) writes: haha, well, if you actually like the nipple i guess you're stuck.
parent share twitter facebook - re:more to come (score:5, funny) by sponge bath (413667) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @07:16pm (#20392303)
first of all leopard will have some niftyintegrated features for child safety [apple.com].
homepage my youngest son is a new freshman at kent state.
as soon as my company moves from the red to the black, i'm investing in macbooks for my entire staff.
you might need some cash on hand or in short-term investments, but other than that you absolutely should be thinking of how to spend the money, with the eventual goal of gaining even more money.
we *are* talking it.
which is why i "drank the koolaid" in 2003 and bought a mac to start with.
the funny thing is, i don't consider myself a fanboy.
(but the more market share they get, the stronger they'll be, and the longer they'll be around for me :).
obviously, osx offers something that windows does not, correct?
to be fair i used them pretty much every waking moment of every day and brought them everywhere with me.
here's what i don't like.
then this article triumphs being tied with gateway as an achievement.
run simulations while on the road without having to perform yoga contortions to get the machine to act like a proper unix box.
- - re:please educate & inform me... (score:5, informative) by astrosmash(3561)
journal don't even bother feeding the troll--twitter that is.
comparable hardware, comparable price, available, polished, and with an os i actually would and do use.
this makes it a workstation replacement by far.
apple now selling better than one laptop in six more login apple now selling better than one laptop in six archived discussion load 500 more comments full abbreviated hidden /sea score: 5 4 3 2 1 0 -1
so, yes, i'd say that's an achievement -- if only an achievement until gateway is bought by acer, but an achiev -
i'm much in the same boat as you; i've got a 4 year old powermac g5 and a 3 year old albook.
have you ever actually tried to work on a multi-dozen part 3d cad assembly and compared your productivity of a native os versus a virtual machine?
but the more i read it the more i realize that it is what you said that is, in fact, the mark of a poor businessman.
gigabit or just 10/100?
the cheapest of the cheap laptops are generally sucktastic, big, and heavy (and generally come pre-installed with vista).
(score:5, informative) bymoridineas (213502) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @11:55pm (#20394509)
it's a frickin' directory browser people!
i just checked the dell and apple websites and here is what i found: (canadian $) dell xps 1330: $1729 # 2.16ghz intel core 2 duo # 1gb 667 ddr2 sdram # 160gb serial ata @ 5400 rpm # superdrive 8x
we mac users complain that windows sucks, not because we can't figure anything out, or it doesn't look like a mac.
kids these days, they want to use the mouse for everything (hammer/nail syndrome).
it's no thicker than my fujitsu p7010 is
i hadn't realized that they were selling them now, but i saw a crowd ganged around a table where they had the laptops and imacs sitting out for people to play around with.
- re: (score:3, informative) by almahtar (991773) writes: honestly only an idiot would buy a macbook and run windows instead of os x. gaming?
they're all about some nipples.
maybe i should get one, too".
my mac runs smoothly all the time, and t - re: (score:3, informative) by king-manic (409855) writes: you're one for three, in my experience.
hence, no need for a windows machine, and no need to be an "idiot", either.
i think the intel switch and the option to run windows is a huge selling point for many.
parent share twitter facebook - - re: (score:3, funny) by niteice (793961) writes: ....
his was about $500 more, but it's a 17", and the price difference would be neligable had i bought a 17".
mine's al - - re: (score:2) by jellomizer (103300) * writes: i get about the same thing.
it might not be what you or i need, from a given system, but that's a separate issue.
i don't think mac users differentiate as much between desktop and laptop models as pc users do, because most mac users don't care about all the specs.
in other words, it doesn't include the two main channels through which laptops are sold.
macs have always been considered as overpriced.
(now whether you want or care about those features is a separate issue.)
- - re: (score:3, insightful) by malleusebhc (597600) writes:
keynote alone might force an upgrade from my ibook to a macbook for lecturing/conferences.
i'm not using it, i'm not paying for it.
i myself bought my macbook because some friends had ibooks and i found them nifty.
when i started a new job in january, they issued me a macbook pro.
i was kind of slow to notice this build-up, kind of resistant to the idea of buying into the cult of apple and probably should have made the switch sooner, could have used this productivity boost a year ago, but, whatever, i'm glad that i eventually cottoned on.
why does apple hype this "application" up so much??
[sun.com], and what influence didobjective-c have on java
mac os x intel (2006 - present) so i am use to swiching primary os's)
i was rather pleased with myself too; we used one of those 50% off coupons i found and got a great-spec machine for the price.
that's not the ipod's halo effect.
share twitter facebook - a little perspective (score:4, interesting) by donnacha (161610)
sorry 1995, you can't have this one.
homepage i am no apple fanboy, been around /.
" - re:at retail... (score:5, insightful) by warin (200873) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:51pm (#20392013)
for instance, i run windows xp sandboxed on my dual core macbook pro laptop, and that's the only place i run windows at all.
it's only mildly better than the previous (and related) apple pc software i used, quicktime, which in addition to having arbitrary annoying restrictions and nag screens also came up with one of the worst ui elements ever: the volume dial in software.
real os's make using a single mouse button easy, and thus make the vegistal extra mouse button pc laptops struggle to include in a place that is not an ergonomic disaster unneeded.
comporable dells are thicker, wider, and heavier, and no fun to carry around at all.
parent share twitter facebook
the office i worked in, which is a co-working suite called the betahouse in cambridge (it's all web developers)
i wonder if he had time for bed bath & beyond.
i've got at least one family member of my own who has looked out through the broken window and found the air under the apple trees to be a very welcome change (and two others are seriously considering it).
writes: a) don't have a nipple have used a nipple.
i looked around in a large lecture hall class of 100+ at university of florida and 4/5 of the laptops were macs of some sort, and most of those were the new macbooks.
this made them profitable and restored people's trust in apple producing a relia share twitter facebook - re:quality and intel (score:5, insightful) by superkendall (25149) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @11:17pm (#20394223)
also they're a lot more durable than macs.
the ipod did vault them into a new straosphere of awareness and is obviously having an effect though.
writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @07:22pm (#20392361)
my dream laptop would be an ibm x31 running os-x, but since those were neve - not a complete picture (score:2) by fred fleenblat (463628) writes: from tfa: > npd, which collects its data primarily from retail sources and excludes > most online and all direct sales given what a large (and qualitatively different) chunk of the market has been excluded from the stats, it doesn't seem like their 1/6 number is necessarily representative of the full state of the laptop market.
i ordered but it was also more then £1000 more expensive as the mbp i customised up on apple.com was £1978 with the 7200rpm hdd and 3 year apple care.
(upgrade pricing aside!)
parent share twitter facebook - that one's easy.
i think what you may have meant to say is that os x is not as good at being a replacement for good parenting as windows is.
- why id software chose nextstep to develop their landmark doom and quake [rome.ro] games for the pc.
i guess i could try to run linux on the mac hardware, but i'm worried so few people probably do that, i would be in relatively uncharted waters and have lots of problems.
is it thinner or thicker?
i found nothing as small and silent with anywhere near the power in the pc market, especially with buil - - - re: (score:3, informative) by theraven64 (641858) writes: it's not just the hardware, it's the integration.
writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @08:04pm (#20392739)
why... first ipods are rather cheap and can be considered an impulse buy for middle middle class-wealthy people for poor- lower middle class an ipod shuffle would be at christmas gift.
a friend who did database work for an observatory told me of going to an adass conference a couple years ago, and getting looks of pity because he had the only non-mac laptop in the room.
normally if i am running parallels at the time people stop and realize that if they went with a mac they would gain more then they loss.
well now that depends.
there is an inperceivable performance difference between macbook pros and desktop computers, which makes the choice (as a mac users) to buy a laptop a no-brainer, whereas a pc user is more used to expecting a mobile computer to have serious performance issues compared to equi
homepage journal honestly only an idiot would buy a macbook and run windows instead of os x.
i expect that lot of these new apple buyers are people who, like me, just grew weary of microsoft,their attitude, and the endless virus and other problems.
under x.org 7, it will try to auto-configure it (with 6.x it was a bit more iffy).
i currently have three of them assigned to me that i use daily as well (a t60 at home, a x32 for utility work and testing in the server room, and a t43 at my desk which is about to go back on lease which i will replace with a t61) overall, the quality on these laptops is outstanding and they are very durable and very stable.
who are the selling them to?
without javascript enabled, you might want toturn on classic discussion system in your preferences instead.
master (1088569) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @10:05pm (#20393753)
i bet in a few years microsoft mice will have 100 buttons so people can type with them, because the keyboard is just sooo old fashioned.
but i am defending apples product and pricing as good value, because for what you get, it is.
but all lap tops are overpriced, can't play games and can't be upgraded, so the mac disadvantage disappears.
not quite as impressive as the summary or title make it appear, eh?
this solution is just tits!)
good on you, for finding what you need.
the windows version has network offloading and a billion other nifty features that consistently work.
macs experience hardware issues.
* writes: nobody's forcing you to upgrade, but you'd think a company with no other leg to stand on, would be a little nicer about the software that drives the sales of their overpriced hardware.
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:3, insightful) by lkm (227954) writes: i think you're missing the point.
some enjoy treating this as a spectator sport, like a never-ending baseball match between apple and microsoft, enjoying each play that seems to bring victory that little bit nearer.
i also run a linux install pretty much the same way (though no coherence, unfortunately.)
enlighten me to which features sp1 and sp2 added that come close to: quartz extreme, filevault, spotlight, dashboard, smart folders, core image, core video, automator, time machine, spaces, boot camp, resolution independance...
who in his/her right mind does that?
like dell inspiron 1420: $1,159 # 2.2ghz intel core 2 duo # 1gb 667 ddr2 sdram # 160gb serial ata @ 5400 rpm # superdrive 8x
you can run freebsd or linux on the "expensive" apple machine as well.
so overall, we have not seen any reduction in quality over the past few years, no increase in maintenance costs, and they are very reliable units.
windows isn't allowed to get to the net where it can get hurt, i just use it to host a few desktop applications that don't have mac equivalents.
apple now selling better than one laptop in six  more login apple now selling better than one laptop in six archived discussion  load 500 more comments full  abbreviated  hidden
this version of the flame war requires win2k or better, or osx.
unless you're a gamer, you're going to opt for the latter (and even if you are a gamer, you may just decide to get your fix by playing networked games with the roommates on an 360 anyway), parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:3, insightful) by oktober sunset (838224) writes: well, the major disadvantages of mac desktops are they are overpriced, they don't play games and to upgrade, you throw them in the bin and buy a new one.
and want to share it with others.
i'm a linux user and not ready to make "the switch."
his is a dell xps of some sort, mine's a macbook pro.
they don't play games
yes, i'm still pretty sure i'm not a fanboy :)
lucas123 writes "apple's share of the  laptop market has grown over the past few years andthe company is now beating  gateway in sales, according research firm npd group inc. in port washington,  ny. '
most of the price difference between apple and pc is actually represented in the 2ndary specs, and build quality.
the pc version of the game will not be able to do so.
can't do two finger scrolling with a nipple, a feature which makes a number of operations on a laptop even easier than a desktop.
it is also interesting, how big the "monkey see, monkey do" effect is.
but when i talk about the mac, i get excited about how well it works, and people accuse me of it!
i suppose that might happen with my s - re:college non-kids, too.
:-) in all seriousness, what do you guys actually do with your macs that justifies the expense?
share twitter facebook - re:more to come (score:4, funny) by mclovin (1145861) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:46pm (#20391943)
we have at least a thousand running thinkpads and have had several thousand over the last 3 years.
now, apple upgrade pricing is a scam, but you don't have to buy your 2nd stick of ram or hard drive upgrade from apple.
re: (score:3, informative) by mouser (3264) writes: you're missing a key point: boot camp and the promise of multi-boot makes getting an apple machine a polyvalent solution.
in the meantime, i certainly recommend giving the whole mac proposition a closer look, you might find yourself as surprised as i have been.
- re:brand synergy (score:5, interesting) by gujo-odori (473191) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @07:12pm (#20392247)
i would have bought one myself if they didnt cost twice as much as they should.
i got fed up with xp, thought i'd try os x, with the ability to fall back to xp on the same hardware, if i wasn't happy with os x.
parent share twitter facebook - - re: (score:3, informative) by stewbacca (1033764) writes: no physical button, but you can right click with a second finger on the trackpad.
i'm guessing that you have an older g4 or g5 based mac, because, if you were to purchase a new mac, it would have wireless and bluetooth built-in ($79 option on the mac pro, standard on everything else), so in your - re: (score:3, informative) by jimithing dmb (29796) writes: i'll try to address these 1 by 1 and see if i can come up with some solutions for you.
writes: well, the major disadvantages of mac desktops are they are overpriced equivilent windows desktops cost more, even when (or especially when) they make some with the same useful form factor.
now that i'm always carrying my laptop in my backpack wherever my thumb takes me, i constantly hear people saying: "ooh!
more login nickname: password: public terminal forgot your password?
here it's par for the course.
writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:33pm (#20391807)
just get work done quietly and unobtrusively, without the computer/os having to announce its presence every minute, lest i forget the blessings that redmond hath bestowed upon me.
also the mbp has an led backlit screen whereas the vostro is ccfl however i didn't see any difference when using a led mbp or dell m1330 recently although it should keep the battery running longer.
the article, however, does include the full numbers: apple's share of u.s. [laptop] sales [is] 5.6%, far behind leaders hp (28.4%) and dell (23.6%) but tied with gateway.
- backlit keyboard keys - ambient light sensitive backlight (both lcd and keyboard) - usb and firewire ports!
(dvd±r dl/dvd±rw/cd-rw) # intel gma 3100 black macbook (std build): $1649 # 2.16ghz intel core 2 duo # 1gb 667 ddr2 sdram # 160gb serial ata @ 5400 rpm # superdrive 8x (dvd±r dl/dvd±rw/cd-rw) # intel gma 950 so for slightly less money, you get a machine with a slig - re: (score:3, informative) by jdc180 (125863) writes: funny thing about dell, is you have choices....
you paid 1500 for it, and the 15-inch apple mbpro is 1999, or 30% more (hardly the twice you were moaning about).
what's really amazed me lately is that this isn't just a us thing.
the screen was starting to degrade so i replaced it for $210, but that was entirely my fault.
and, though i only got the machine in june, already one person has boug - brand synergy (score:4, insightful) by embeddedjanitor (597831)
before when i was using a normal pc i would make this ubber setup and no one will notice it and no one would care, then with my macbook pro i get random people stop in and comment on my laptop computer.
it's a terrible idea actually.
well i'd say give it time; people didn't write for xp the moment it came out either, it took a while for apps to stop supporting win98, but as people update their computers and get vista by default there'll be a transition, whether it's worthwhile or not.
and the extra mouse travel distance is not a problem because it's easier to hit a target always at the top of the screen than one that might be mixed around other menus (in windows i've found myself accidentally raising windows i did not mean to when i mistook which menu bar was for the active window).
windows needs an x86 cpu.
their sales are continuing to grow faster than the rest of the  marketplace,' the firm stated.
said applications should be designed to show whatever information might be useful in some other location than a menu bar.
- design: the design is sleek and simple.
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:3, informative) by brianragle (1016523) writes: my son was just issued an older ibook from his high school.
parent share twitter facebook - - re: (score:3, informative) by nmerriam (15122) writes: your next major home os upgrade will cost you a bit per installation.
for those too lazy to read the summary, this doesn't include online sales.
yes, you could use fusion or parallels to run windows, i know.
hp still offers xp on its bto notebooks, but there's less and less stuff for which i need windows...both of my machines boot linux (the older one - re:college kids (score:4, informative) by brian gordon (987471)
also, does this prove the ipod's halo effect is real?
if you factor in the hardware and include things like noise level, size, weight, build qu - - re:at retail... (score:5, funny) by bluesman (104513) writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @08:27pm (#20392981)
that would suggest that apple's own sales are also doing "well." apple set a new record of 1.7 million macs last quarter, which is commonly its slowest quarter.
writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @10:31pm (#20393925)
i wanted a sub £1000 notebook with dedicated graphics and a 15.4" screen.
parent share twitter facebook - re:brand synergy (score:4, informative) by plutonite (999141)
for the record, my office is a windows xp only shop, so all those mac owners are running xp on their macs (at least at work).
external displays work as expected.
he wanted to run some spyware software to monitor his 13 year old daughter.
with all the brand exposure over the last few years (ipod) and more recently (iphone) is it suprising that people are getting the idea that apple makes cool stuff?
after spending a few weeks getting used to the interface, i honestly believe that my people will enjoy using their computers.
... $80 for what amounts to service packs is irritating to me.
what we will see, however, is a fairly fast and comprehensive migration towards mac by programmers and other people who need to be creative and productive with computers.
and this is before we even consider apple's incredibly devious "buy a macbook, get an ipod" promotion.
- slashdot japan close slashdot working...
you're one for three, in my experience.
b) only have 1 mouse button.
* writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @07:19pm (#20392339)
how cool is apple's industrial design?
writes: on tuesday august 28 2007, @06:37pm (#20391851)
(score:5, insightful) by estanislao martnez (203477)
when i went to college i got a thinkpad, my brother got an ibook.
except of course for all the windows games, via bootcamp.
however, those 30" displays are fantastic.
does linux on macbook pros work, including driving the 30" screen at f - intel runs windows too, but macs are unix too ...
my last purchase was a 4gb ram 3.1ghz (2.5ghz overclocked) core2 quad pc with vista u x64 / ubuntu feisty x64 on separate 500gb drives, and an 8600gts; i have no regrets; the imac was worlds away from what i needed (hello pci slots for testing medical video capture equipment).
so i can honestly say the apple's success here is unsurprising to me; the laptop market is one that is well-suited to apple's core strengths.
and if i only found a way to stop my gf from trying to steal it... (i think it's because of the remote.)
i myself own a macbook, and while i have seen many oses, touched and owned many hardware devices, i have to say that this was my best ever computer/os selection.
is it heavier or lighter?
heck i am on my second mac that is the first time i purchased the same brand after the old model went obsolete (and it is not about fear of switching os's, i went from a ti-99 (1984-1988), dos 2 box (1988-1992), * windows 3.1 (1992-1997), linux (1997-2001), solaris (2001-2002), mac os x (2002-2006),
and when you think you solved it all, you realize that your battery dies a lot faster, or your backlight just does not go out when the screen saver starts.
their sales are continuing to grow faster than the rest of the marketplace,' the firm stated.
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:3, interesting) by jellomizer (103300)
- what's compelling about nextstep/cocoa apis, interface builder
i work near a major japanese facility, so there arealways japanese scientists around.
(dvd±r dvd±rw/cd-rw) # intel gma 3100 black macbook (std build): $1649 # 2.16ghz intel core 2 duo # 1gb 667 ddr2 sdram # 160gb serial ata @ 5400 rpm # superdrive 8x
i find it kinda amusing that either earlier today or yesterday there was an article about how gateway got bought out for just over a dollar a share and most the comments were tashing the company's business model and how it was driven into the ground.
homepage i don't know about the ipod effect, but something is definitely working, and i think some of it is quality and ease of use.
and a mac pro simply wasn't a good value for this unit.
parent share twitter facebook - re: (score:3, interesting) by ncc74656 (45571) * writes: the simple truth is that at least for ibm (now levno) laptops and hp... and probably others...
- the move to adopt openstep/freebsd/unix as the foundation for their operating system.
when comparing my macbook to my thinkpad running linux (or my office machine running linux), i look forward to heading home not only for the beer but to use my mac.
you say that now but when you realize how much more manageable a single large button is that you can chord into two, vs. two mouse buttons on a laptop where at least one is awkward to hit... on top of that applications are designed to work with one mouse button instead of requiring two, the single button design aspect across all mac platforms is what allows the laptops to be especially usable.
(score:5, interesting) by shag (3737)
there are also a lot of tools available in the command-line environment, as well as open source software that can be compiled for mac os x.