apple's offering followed them.
use the links below to get access to a specific blog, news, or reviews feed.
share anything with anyone, instantly, and you'll start getting more done, more quickly.
however, with the sabpab trojan also targeting macs, there are concerns that mac users think that they are protected because they have updated java with apple's latest security update.
it's easy and free to get the latest news headlines, reviews and opinions straight to your email inbox.
virtualisation cfo world - the latest finance news, and in depth analysis for senior finance executives macworld us | macworld nl | macwelt | macworld sweden | macworld poland | macworld españa | macworld france
first, apple made the unfortunate choice of trying to shut down the  domain used by the dr. web researchers who were the first to reveal the size of  the macbot.
symantec reported that the macbot was down to 142,000 macs by 16 april, and potentially less than 99,000 by 17 april.
© idg 2012 macvideo - the ultimate resource for video on the mac | video editing | camera technology | dvd authoring | video encoding | motion graphics and vfx cio - analysis | opinion | latest news | uk business news | debate | technology | blogs | grid computing | supplier management | enterprise search | mobile & wireless | cio 100 companies - top users of it in the uk computerworlduk.com - it management news and opinion |
100% free: perfect for ad-hoc meetings, training, demoing and more.
first, apple made the unfortunate choice of trying to shut down the domain used by the dr. web researchers who were the first to reveal the size of the macbot.
as security venders and apple made tools available to  detect and remove flashback (also known as flashfake) another threat emerged  known assabpub.
symantec reported that the macbot  was down to 142,000 macs by 16 april, and potentially less than 99,000 by 17  april.
in april more than 600,000 macs were reported to have been infected with a  flashback trojan horse that was being installed on people's computers with the  help of java exploits.
kaspersky and  symantec followed in quick succession.
share your screen instantly at join.me.
one can quibble about specific security technologies employed by  apple, microsoft, and other players – and there is merit to such  discussions – but the days where mac users could ignore security concerns  and shrug off the possibility of infections is gone.
on 2 april f-secure published a blog claiming: “a new flashback variant (mac malware) has been spotted exploiting cve-2012-0507 (a java vulnerability).
the flashback trojan is considered to be the largest mac  malware threat to date.
awarded 5 stars and editor’s choice by macworld it’s just 9.9mm thick but packs a punch with a massive capacity of 500gb.
the same security holes in question were patched for windows users  back in february.
any mac users who believe  that they have protected themselves because they don't use java probably needs  to realise that that's not an effective defence".
or a sceptic might suggest apple was trying to  minimise information about the extent of flashback infections.
it was through this research that the security firm was able to report the size of apple’s botnet to be more than 600,000 macs.
oracle released an  update that patched this vulnerability back in february… for windows.
about | terms & conditions | webmaster@macworld.co.uk | all contents
stores up to 300 hd movies and streams them wirelessly to three devices wherever you go.
g was exploiting a pair of java bugs, one harking back to 2008, the other discovered in 2011.
this entire saga is a wakeup call that macs are just as vulnerable as pcs to malware.
kaspersky and symantec followed in quick succession.
computing news | desktop pc reviews | laptop reviews |
some argue that if apple were more transparent about security issues  – and if it had promptly released a flashback fix – the extent of  the damage could have been smaller.
it was through this research that the security firm was able to  report the size of apple’s botnet to be more than 600,000 macs.
the relatively low number of malware for mac os x does not  mean better protection.
however, these highly publicised mac malware examples have raised  the question ofwhether macs are as safe from attack as many mac users believe,  and whether apple can maintain its reputation for security.
it wasn’t until 4 april thatapple released updates to java for os x lion 2012-001 and java for mac os x 10.6.
apparently apple had reported the domain, claiming it was being used as a “command and control” server for the infected computers.
you'll get it for the sound but love it for all its features.
like flashback, sabpub uses vulnerabilities in java virtual  machine, but kaspersky lab’s researchers also found six microsoft word  documents relating to tibet, all of them containing the exploit.
incidentally, back in february mac security vender intego revealed that a variant of the flashback malware was using exploits vulnerabilities in java to steal usernames and passwords for online payment, banking and credit card websites.
while these cases, flashback in particular, have stolen the headlines, they are still minor in comparison to the security breaches regularly experienced in the pc world.
the same security holes in question were patched for windows users back in february.
however, these highly publicised mac malware examples have raised the question ofwhether macs are as safe from attack as many mac users believe, and whether apple can maintain its reputation for security.
one can quibble about specific security technologies employed by apple, microsoft, and other players – and there is merit to such discussions – but the days where mac users could ignore security concerns and shrug off the possibility of infections is gone.
in fact they are not safe from the latest  vulnerability.
sophos’ graham cluley warned: "unlike the earlier  sightings of sabpab, there is nothing about this attack which relates to the  java vulnerability exploited by the flashback botnet.
have the latest content delivered to your desktop via rss.
we are uniquely both equipment apple approved reseller and licensed credit brokers and have tailored a solution which includes a full 3 year warranty and an equipment upgrade every 18 month.
in april more than 600,000 macs were reported to have been infected with a flashback trojan horse that was being installed on people's computers with the help of java exploits.
f-secure,  which provided instructions for detecting the malware early on, was the first  major security vendor to offer a quarantine and removal tool.
at the timeintego claimed flashback.
goldgenie goldgenie are iphone and ipad customisation specialists using real gold, platinum, diamonds and swarovski crystals – clients include elton john, usain bolt, victoria beckham and denzel washington.
audyssey south of market audio dock - wirelessly stream music from your ipod or iphone.
apple's efforts with the mac app store, os x mountain lion, and the upcoming apple developer id program are good security moves, but they can't turn back time to the state of comfort many mac users enjoyed a month ago.
it wasn’t until 4 april thatapple  released updates to java for os x lion 2012-001 and java for mac os x 10.6.
according to dr. web ceo boris sharov, the domain was being used as  a spoofed command and control server, also known as a “sinkhole”,  designed to monitor the hijacked machines in order to understand their  behaviour.
apple did this by leveraging its software update infrastructure so  that users who regularly agree to accept apple's software update notices were  protected – even if they had never heard of the threat.
flawless sound and bass so powerful, you'll feel it in your chest, the south of market audio dock from audyssey is made for those who love music.
sign up now to make sure you receive the latest mac news, reviews and tutorials on your favourite topics.
any mac users who believe that they have protected themselves because they don't use java probably needs to realise that that's not an effective defence".
however, with the sabpab trojan also targeting macs, there are concerns  that mac users think that they are protected because they have updated java  with apple's latest security update.
wed, 18 apr 2012 digest: a history of the mac flashback trojan the past few weeks have rewritten the mac security rule book, we look back karen haslam
or a sceptic might suggest apple was trying to minimise information about the extent of flashback infections.
some argue that if apple were more transparent about security issues – and if it had promptly released a flashback fix – the extent of the damage could have been smaller.
according to dr. web ceo boris sharov, the domain was being used as a spoofed command and control server, also known as a “sinkhole”, designed to monitor the hijacked machines in order to understand their behaviour.
intego’s mac security blog notes that it was awareflashback was targeting macs in the september 2011.
the most recent incidents like flashfake and sabpub indicate that the personal data of unprotected mac users is also at risk, either because cybercriminals understand the rising market share of such machines, or because they are hired for the direct task of attacking apple computers.”
but – apple hasn't released the update for os x (yet).”
email this article to a friend or colleague:recipient's name : * please note:
andy ihnatko - apple's post-pc world liquid metal to replace glass in next iphone digest: a history of the mac flashback trojan new intel processors 'desktop only', new imac soon?
the most recent incidents like flashfake and sabpub  indicate that the personal data of unprotected mac users is also at risk,  either because cybercriminals understand the rising market share of such  machines, or because they are hired for the direct task of attacking apple  computers.”
mobile phone reviews | windows vista help | privacy & security downloads | pc forums |
kaspersky lab chief security expert alexander gostev said: “the  sabpub backdoor once again reveals thatnot a single software environment is  safe from attack.
we've been anticipating something like this for a while now.
intego claims it began offering  protection before the malware became a news story.
unsurprisingly the flashback case sawmac security software sales jump that said, apple released a fix on as soon as its engineers could create  the patch, made needed corrections immediately after that, and ultimately  released tools on 16 april that would protect uninfected macs and remove any  infections.
f-secure, which provided instructions for detecting the malware early on, was the first major security vendor to offer a quarantine and removal tool.
beat the credit crunch - lease your mac from hardsoft hardsoft are the only 'one stop' solution for the supply and finance of i.t. to businesses throughout the uk via our regional branch offices.
both your name and the recipient's name and address will not be used for any other purpose.
as security venders and apple made tools available to detect and remove flashback (also known as flashfake) another threat emerged known assabpub.
while these cases, flashback in particular, have stolen the headlines, they  are still minor in comparison to the security breaches regularly experienced in  the pc world.
perhaps the biggest criticism directed at apple was the way it handled the situation.
it was the change of tactics, when flashback began taking advantage of a  weakness in java so that it could infect a mac with little more than a visit to  a website, that was spotted in april.
kaspersky lab chief security expert alexander gostev said: “the sabpub backdoor once again reveals thatnot a single software environment is safe from attack.
find out more g-technology check out the g-drive slim – the perfect new ultra thin portable drive for your apple macbook air or macbook pro.
please login to post comments click here for the latest reader comments more news... more mac software news...
the flashback trojan is considered to be the largest mac malware threat to date.
register with macworld today to join our forums and receive our twice-weekly email newsletter, macworld mainline.
unsurprisingly the flashback case sawmac security software sales jump that said, apple released a fix on as soon as its engineers could create the patch, made needed corrections immediately after that, and ultimately released tools on 16 april that would protect uninfected macs and remove any infections.
this entire saga is a wakeup call that macs are just as vulnerable as pcs  to malware.
perhaps this was an honest mistake.
stream music wirelessly, sync and charge and is a speakerphonefor iphone-a-holic in all of us.
perhaps the biggest criticism directed at apple was the way it handled the  situation.
computing news | it and management | ict and technology | it career development & hr | managing it infrastructure | business intelligence | it whitepapers and research digital arts - the future of digital design | design news | creative technology reviews | graphic design tutorials | animation and video projects | 3d, web and video forums | design industry blogs pc advisor - expert computing advice you can trust |
sophos’ graham cluley warned: "unlike the earlier sightings of sabpab, there is nothing about this attack which relates to the java vulnerability exploited by the flashback botnet.
intego claims it began offering protection before the malware became a news story.
have you tested your mac to see if you have been compromised by the flashback trojan?: view poll results have your say in the macworld forums!
stay on top of the latest, breaking mac news and chat with other mac professionals and enthusiasts about the issues that matter to you.
login || register search this site: free book worth up to £36 with macworld subscription mac software > news karen haslam
your name is used only to let the recipient know who sent the story, and in case of transmission error.
wi-fi help techworld - it infrastructure & networking news and reviews | data and voice networking | data storage | computer & internet security | mobile computing & wireless networking | wireless router | internet security | enterprise computing topic pages |
imagine streaming your movies and music directly to your ipad®, iphone®, android device or laptop.
try join.me now.. kodak all-in-one printers kodak all-in-one printers offer the lowest total ink replacement cost - print from anywhere, for less.
7.85in ipad mini to launch this year apple's tv to have siri, itunes, and motion controlled games console email
oracle released an update that patched this vulnerability back in february… for windows.
apple released a further update to the lion version of the update later that same week.
simple, instant online meetings.
intego’s mac security  blog notes that it was awareflashback was targeting macs in the september 2011.
apple did this by leveraging its software update infrastructure so that users who regularly agree to accept apple's software update notices were protected – even if they had never heard of the threat.
use the form below to post a comment on this article up to 1000 characters.
incidentally, back in february mac security vender intego  revealed that a variant of the flashback malware was using exploits  vulnerabilities in java to steal usernames and passwords for online payment,  banking and credit card websites.
subscribe to our feeds here seagate create your own private wi-fi network with the goflex satellite.
find out what's in this month's macworld here.
apple was also criticised for not reacting quickly enough.
it was the change of tactics, when flashback began taking advantage of a weakness in java so that it could infect a mac with little more than a visit to a website, that was spotted in april.
perhaps  this was an honest mistake.
on 2 april  f-secure published a blog claiming: “a new flashback variant (mac  malware) has been spotted exploiting cve-2012-0507 (a java vulnerability).
is apple really building a television set?
like flashback, sabpub uses vulnerabilities in java virtual machine, but kaspersky lab’s researchers also found six microsoft word documents relating to tibet, all of them containing the exploit.
what is telling is that, other than intego, almost none of the security and  antivirus vendors offered up a solution much quicker than apple did.
the relatively low number of malware for mac os x does not mean better protection.
flashback goes back even further than february.
this articles permalink is: http://www.macworld.co.uk/macsoftware/news/index.cfm?newsid=3352157&olo=rss what are your views on this subject?
the flashback macbot is on the decline.
apple released a further update to the lion version of the update later that  same week.
apparently apple had reported the domain, claiming it was being used as a  “command and control” server for the infected computers.
apple's efforts with the  mac app store, os x mountain lion, and the upcoming apple developer id program  are good security moves, but they can't turn back time to the state of comfort  many mac users enjoyed a month ago.
what is telling is that, other than intego, almost none of the security and antivirus vendors offered up a solution much quicker than apple did.
g was  exploiting a pair of java bugs, one harking back to 2008, the other discovered  in 2011.
initially it masqueraded as a flash player installation package for os x lion.
in fact they are not safe from the latest vulnerability.