just select one, enter a password if required, and you’re up and running.
learn the basics about your new mac with this helpful tutorial.
learn more about accessibility features in mac os x helpful features designed for individuals with disabilities are built into every mac.
other automatic security features include library randomization, which prevents  malicious commands from finding their targets, and execute disable, which  protects the memory in your mac from attacks.
if you visit a  suspicious site, safari disables the page and displays an alert warning you  about its suspect nature.
speak directly with a knowledgeable apple specialist over the phone any time of the day.
back to top helpful features designed for individuals with disabilities already come on a mac.
a mac isn’t susceptible to the thousands of viruses plaguing  windows-based computers.
to really understand why you’ll love a mac, you need to experience one for yourself.
speakable items let you control the computer using your voice instead of the keyboard.
with time machine, you can go back in time to retrieve files, photos, and more.
backing up is one of those things you know you should do, but never get around to.
os x lion also lets you magnify the content on your screen, including the cursor, and adjust the display contrast to white-on-black or black-on-white for better visibility.
os x gives you long battery life by dimming the screen in  low-light conditions and even regulating processor activity between keystrokes.
shop the apple online store (1-800-my-apple), visit an apple retail store, or find areseller.
for example, it thwarts hackers  through a technique called “sandboxing” — restricting what  actions programs can perform on your mac, what files they can access, and what  other programs they can launch.
safari also uses  antiphishing technology to protect you from fraudulent websites.
get the answers you need to the most common questions about using a mac.
since the software on every mac is created by the same company that makes the mac, you get a fully integrated system in which everything works together perfectly.
anatomy of a mac back to top
os x keeps an eye out even when you can’t.
that’s thanks to built-in defenses in mac os x that keep you safe, without any work on your part.
hardware and software made for each other.
and your mac can even help you perform routine tasks by recording your actions as you do them and saving them to use later.
of course, making amazing things simple requires some seriously advanced technologies, and os x is loaded with them.
lion also supports playback of closed captioning using quicktime player, front row, and dvd player applications.
filevault 2 encrypts the entire  drive on your mac, protecting your data with xts-aesw 128 encryption.
connecting to wireless networks is even easier.
and it connects to any network with ease.
the multi-touch trackpad on every mac notebook gives you  more than enough space to pinch, swipe, and tap your way around most of the  apps on your system.
if they do, os x alerts you, then warns you the first time you open one.
features such as password assistant help you lock out identity thieves who are after personal data, while built-in encryption technologies protect your private information and communications.
and every mac is built on os x lion, an operating system custom-made for  the advanced technology inside.
for a wired setup, simply plug an ethernet cable into your mac.
for example, it thwarts hackers through a technique called “sandboxing” — restricting what actions programs can perform on your mac, what files they can access, and what other programs they can launch.
but what makes time machine different from other backup applications is that it not only keeps a spare copy of every file, it also remembers how your system looked on a given day so you can revisit your mac as it appeared in the past.
protect what’s important.
with a simple setup  in parental controls preferences, you can manage, monitor, and control the time  your kids spend on the mac, the sites they visit, and the people they chat with.
with os x lion on your mac, you can say goodbye to losing documents and hours of your time.
city and state or zip locate the world’s most knowledgeable apple people can help you get to know our products and answer your questions.
filevault 2 encrypts the entire drive on your mac, protecting your data with xts-aesw 128 encryption.
for those who find it difficult to use a mouse, keyboard, or trackpad, os x lion features mouse keys, slow keys, sticky keys, an onscreen keyboard, customizable keyboard shortcuts, trackpad gestures, and more to help you navigate your mac.
to get the same functionality on a pc, you need to purchase third-party software.
not only is it built  on a rock-solid, time-tested unix foundation that provides unparalleled  stability, it also delivers incredible performance, stunning graphics, and  industry-leading support for internet standards.
get mac advice from anywhere.
every mac comes with software that’s easy to learn and a pleasure to  use.
innocent-looking files downloaded over the internet may contain dangerous malware in disguise.
auto save automatically saves your work, while you work, during pauses and every five minutes.
and every mac is built on os x lion, an operating system custom-made for the advanced technology inside.
stay up to date, automatically.
read more it’s accessible for everyone.
so you’re not tasked with  tracking down updates yourself and installing all of them one by one.
os x gives you long battery life by dimming the screen in low-light conditions and even regulating processor activity between keystrokes.
other automatic security features include library randomization, which prevents malicious commands from finding their targets, and execute disable, which protects the memory in your mac from attacks.
share files with any computer on your network, browse the web, access work or school servers and files, and get your email.
it works the way a computer should.
it should automatically receive the information necessary to establish a connection.
visit the apple online store and click the chat button to speak with a trained chat specialist.
in mac os x, the dock provides fast, one-click  access to frequently used applications, folders, files, and even items  downloaded from the internet.
of course, making amazing things simple requires some seriously  advanced technologies, and os x is loaded with them.
os x works with your processor in your mac to deliver the best possible performance.
if you already have a wired or wireless network, a mac can connect to it easily.
from the desktop you see when you start up your mac to the applications you use every day, everything is designed to be simple and intuitive.
easy to use and incredibly powerful, os x lion delivers amazing performance, stunning graphics, and unparalleled security.
and with versions, lion automatically creates a new version of a document every time you open it and every hour while you’re working on it, so you can review the entire history of a document or revert to an earlier version of it at any time.
os x makes it easy to stay safe online, whether you’re checking your  bank account, sending confidential email, or sharing files with friends and  coworkers.
thankfully, a mac does it for you automatically.
it’s compatible try a mac.
it doesn’t get pc viruses.
as a parent, you want your kids to have a safe and happy experience on the  computer.
if they do,  os x alerts you, then warns you the first time you open one.
when a potential security threat arises, apple responds quickly by  providing software updates and security enhancements you can download  automatically and install with a click.
easy to use and incredibly powerful, os x lion delivers amazing  performance, stunning graphics, and unparalleled security.
you can even copy and paste between versions.
safari also uses antiphishing technology to protect you from fraudulent websites.
a mac isn’t susceptible to the thousands of viruses plaguing windows-based computers.
that’s why files you download using safari, mail, and ichat are screened to determine if they contain applications.
locate an apple store near you and see firsthand all the amazing things a mac has to offer.
initial encryption is fast and unobtrusive.
one click of the airport icon in the menu bar gives you a list of available wi-fi networks.
if you don’t use a screen reader but have trouble reading text on your computer screen, you can have your mac “speak” the text you select.
not only is it built on a rock-solid, time-tested unix foundation that provides unparalleled stability, it also delivers incredible performance, stunning graphics, and industry-leading support for internet standards.
when a potential security threat arises, apple responds quickly by providing software updates and security enhancements you can download automatically and install with a click.
if you’ve used itunes, you’re already familiar with how simply apps work on a mac.
that’s thanks to built-in defenses in mac os x  that keep you safe, without any work on your part.
safeguard your data.
if it doesn’t, a helpful setup assistant will guide you through the process painlessly.
features such as password assistant help you lock out identity  thieves who are after personal data, while built-in encryption technologies  protect your private information and communications.
the multi-touch trackpad on every mac notebook gives you more than enough space to pinch, swipe, and tap your way around most of the apps on your system.
in mac os x, the dock provides fast, one-click access to frequently used applications, folders, files, and even items downloaded from the internet.
mac security features.
defense against viruses
with a simple setup in parental controls preferences, you can manage, monitor, and control the time your kids spend on the mac, the sites they visit, and the people they chat with.
copyright © 2012 apple inc.
with filevault 2, your data is safe and secure  — even if it falls into the wrong hands.
for those who are blind or have low vision, voiceover screen-reading technology that’s part of os x lion enables you to use your computer via spoken descriptions and offers plug-and-play support for braille displays.
that’s why files you download using safari, mail,  and ichat are screened to determine if they contain applications.
icloud stores your content and wirelessly pushes it to all your devices.
download with peace of mind.
a mac takes strong measures to keep your digital world as safe as possible.
since the software on every mac is created by the same company that makes  the mac, you get a fully integrated system in which everything works together  perfectly.
os x makes it easy to stay safe online, whether you’re checking your bank account, sending confidential email, or sharing files with friends and coworkers.
it can also encrypt any removable drive, helping you secure time machine backups or other external drives with ease.
never worry about losing digital files again.
with virtually no effort on your part, os x defends against viruses and  other malicious applications, or malware.
it can also encrypt any removable drive,  helping you secure time machine backups or other external drives with ease.
every mac comes with software that’s easy to learn and a pleasure to use.
every mac comes with time machine: an application that automatically backs up your entire mac to your external hard drive (sold separately), including system files, applications, accounts, preferences, music, photos, movies, and documents.
find the mac that fits your life, your work, and your budget.
os x works with your processor in your mac to deliver the best  possible performance.
if  you’ve used itunes, you’re already familiar with how simply apps  work on a mac.
you can also access secure networks with the built-in vpn support.
as a parent, you want your kids to have a safe and happy experience on the computer.
for those who are deaf or hard of hearing, os x lion lets you change system notifications from an audible alert to a visual alert.
with virtually no effort on your part, os x defends against viruses and other malicious applications, or malware.
so if an application needs your attention, instead of playing a tone, lion flashes the entire screen.
read more it’s a powerful computer that’s easy to use.
so you’re not tasked with tracking down updates yourself and installing all of them one by one.
initial  encryption is fast and unobtrusive.
read more it doesn’t get it backs up automatically and networks easily.
with filevault 2, your data is safe and secure — even if it falls into the wrong hands.
from the desktop you see when you start up your mac to the applications you  use every day, everything is designed to be simple and intuitive.
if you visit a suspicious site, safari disables the page and displays an alert warning you about its suspect nature.
and if you communicate using sign language, ichat and the high-quality video frame rate of the built-in camera make for a great way to stay in touch with anyone, anywhere.
innocent-looking files downloaded over the internet may contain dangerous  malware in disguise.