randsco colophon & footer information randsco: frequently asked questions site design about the designer stk randsco copyright policy © 1999-2012 · xhtml validation link xhtml · css3 validation link css · b2evolution opensource blogging software rocks! cms · randsco privacy policy privacy policy · contact information feedback
you can take a more quantitative approach and look at system shoot-outs.
but for some reason, mac seems to hold their technology a tad too close to  their chest, which is why i find this video so humorous.
recent tweets random photo (linked to blog entry) kimler login page recently updated entries -
(if you go to the site, they listsixteen reasons.
maybe mr. pc is eight times better  than the mac dude?
so ... here you go ...
1) there may be aliens living in your backyard, but the fact is that they showed 16 reasons, then listed them as the top 10.
this is where visitors can find out about randsco and the kimler family.
humor the web mac -vs- pc march 20th, 2007 · stk mac vs. pc ...
adventures - latest news news - contact us contact - about randsco about kimler sidebar menu search journal search randsco local weather local weather click for weather site tools randsco worldwide visitors: count, country, time & what they're reading
just make it a big mac, cause i've got an appetite for computing!!
geographically challenged journal archives - february 2012 - january 2012 - november 2011 - june 2011 - canada post on strike - boating & fishing safety tips - april 2011 - five tips for hiking with kids - march 2011 - bc nursing crisis - five years later - december 2010 - august 2010 - sunshine coast cycle tour - ebay pure-css photo gallery - june 2010 - march 2010 - hisstory: sumatra roads - spring gardening - january 2010 - december 2009 - november 2009 - breaking the piggy bank - 3rd-party yahoos - october 2009 - olympic torch run - things rachel loves - infidel - september 2009 - august 2009 - improving a lightbox effect - six days of sea kayaking - july 2009 - crazy canadian contests
you'll find it funny too!
either way ... as popeye says ...
stk comment 03/21/07 thanks.
well, here's an underground reversal that had me giggling.
to learn how oklahoma's red dirt emporium is using photo-caption zoom and about some of their unique products, carry on ... grab some red dirt more shout outs kimler adventure pages: journal entries random searches random top 40 - best photos in the world - best in the world pictures - african grey - best image - bowron lakes - install a fence toe board - creative tasks for 1 yr old - put out vegetable oil fire - css link to font tff - checkerboard tablecloth - @font‑face server compability - toddler drawing - making a wooden checker board - how to extinguish fire of stove - what does a chicken egg look like - cold fire extinguishers - firewood vancouver island - arts projects for 18 month olds - chickens first eggs - why do we go through brakes on dodge grand caravan - "live chicken" kenya wings legs knife - things to do with 1 and 2 year olds - the best pictures - things to do with 18 month olds - sxs.co - art projects with 16 month olds - norton ghost did not copy operating system - what does a fifteen month baby boy play with - maytagdryerwiring - sample spf record - font‑face compatibility - 2003 dodge grand c aravan transmission problems - keep toddler occupied - 2003 dodge caravan problems - how to entertain a 15 month old - location of the transmission ground strap on 99 dodge ram corporate 9 - blue flowers - sunshine coast bike tour - island near vancouver bc with ave temp 70 degrees - dirk smedley music mac -vs- pc filed in:
if you readmac vs pc, it seems that mac is the winner hands-down.
more humor on the next page ... macromedia flash player (tm) 7 required which is better?
it is better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to open one's mouth and remove all doubt.
if anyone wants to pony up a donation, i'm all ears.
i've had my share of problems with mr.  pc
not only was their contribution unsolicited, but they didn't require any support to get it deployed.
if you're looking for opinions, you can find lots.
if  you readmac vs pc, it seems that mac is the winner hands-down.
luck, happenstance or maybe a better game plan?
check this box if you are not a spammer: check this box if you are not a spammer: subscribe to comments auto convert line breaks to  1.
your dim-witted brain is too old to interpret this so if you don't understand, shut your hole 4.
i'd like to think that our menu system is easy and will work, but some people just require a site map to figure it out.
urls & such will be converted to links.
an lastly, not as if this is the ultimate comparison, but as of 2003, the  forbes 400 (richest people in the u.s.) had bill gates at #1 with a net worth  of $40b and steve jobs was #49, with a net worth of $5b. while i'd love to have  either balance in my bank account, bill's about 8x better off than steve.
(it currently sucks, which is why it's shown as display:none!)
in fact, i nearly considered getting a mac for my last purchase.
the red dirt emporium was one of the few companies (or people) that made an unsoliciteddonation for their commercial usage of the photo-caption zoom v3 technique.
randsco site map site map again, this is something that i've been wanting to do for some time and i believe that a site map is necessary to help those people out that have a hard time figuring out what is what on our site.
have a great day gary 2.
not that more isn't better, but why say 10, when you supposedly have 16?)
gary (yabs friends in uk) comment 03/21/07 mint !
one day, a donation email arrived and i thought, "wow.
since they are largely responsible for the "thank you" section of our sidebar and this "shout outs" blog, it's fitting that one of the first shouts should go to oklahoma'sred dirt emporium.
no hole is utilized to leave a comment - fingers are!
(an underground backlash, if you will).
interestingly enough, after finding these videos, i did a quick search for  "mac vs pc" on google.ca and what did i find as the number one entry?
interestingly enough, after finding these videos, i did a quick search for "mac vs pc" on google.ca and what did i find as the number one entry?
or is it a cadillac or a yugo?
one place to try is  epinions.
not that more isn't better, but why say 10, when you supposedly  have 16?)
nice one scott, had a good chuckle with those vids.
but the funny part is that they listten reasons to get  a mac.
they are tummy ticklers, aren't they?
and i'm not married to a brand.
"eye'am what eye'yam" (or ...  it is what it is).
i just need to do it!"
randsco: worldwide visitor map subscribe: rss, atom & rdf xml feed (via feedburner)
there are 12 visitors.
• kimler adventure pages (http://randsco.com) (visit the website for full-size images, captions, links, video and other screen-only content) - home page - randsco slide shows wedding pacific crest trail alex "faces" alex - year one alex - year two alex - year three slide shows - our big adventures southern gulf islands kayaking (2009) bowron lakes canoe circuit (2008) nanaimo - seattle loop bicycle tour (2007) the west coast trail (2007) glacier & waterton lakes cycle tour (2005) icefields parkway cycle tour (2004) pacfic coast bicycle tour (2002) pacific crest trail (pct) backpacking adventure (2002) wonderland trail (2001) oregon coast cycle tour (2001) rachel pilley's big ride across america (1999) scott kimler's big ride across america (1999)
i'm all for giving the mac a try.
mac -vs- pc march 20th, 2007  · stk mac vs. pc ...
top 40 search terms join the fight against email spam sign our guestbook kimler news multiple, historical stock quote service latest tweet by randsco enable javascript and you'll see my latest witty comment on twitter here, instead of this boring message.
they specialize in oklahoma resources, art, music and other items that celebrate oklahoma
is it like choosing a ford or a chevrolet?
stk comment 05/10/08 maclover - your rude, name-calling, puctuation-less and poorly capitalized comment puts mac users in poor company and reflects badly on the entire country of india.
but for some reason, mac seems to hold their technology a tad too close to their chest, which is why i find this video so humorous.
"eye'am what eye'yam" (or ... it is what it is).
in any case ... someone loves pc!!
but the funny part is that they listten reasons to get a mac.
in fact, i nearly considered getting a mac  for my last purchase.
maclover comment 05/09/08 idiot they said top ten reasons for switching which means two things 1.
the ability to run unix and windows.
there may be a 100000000 reasons to switch but they have shown 10 2.
so, i made this section and (slowly) have begun populating it with some of the many people and companies that have - in some way - supported or helped randsco.
click to see their country & what they're reading.
an lastly, not as if this is the ultimate comparison, but as of 2003, the forbes 400 (richest people in the u.s.) had bill gates at #1 with a net worth of $40b and steve jobs was #49, with a net worth of $5b. while i'd love to have either balance in my bank account, bill's about 8x better off than steve.
it's provides a formal way of saying "thanks" and helps to promote their website (in a search-engine-friendly kind of way).
if anyone wants to pony up a  donation, i'm all ears.
payback time for mac i think !!
one place to try is epinions.
i've had my share of problems with mr. pc and i'm not married to a brand.
macromedia flash player (tm) 7 required you've seen those macintosh ads on television, where there's a guy that represents a mac computer and a guy that's supposed to be a pc?
honestly, i'm not a die-hard pc fan.
macromedia flash player  (tm) 7 required you've seen those macintosh ads on television, where there's a guy that  represents a mac computer and a guy that's supposed to be a pc?
you've seen the mac ads on television, where mr. pc ends up looking like a goof?
the red dirt emporium was founded in 2007 and has a goal of introducing visitors and locals to the best that oklahoma has to offer.
maybe mr. pc is eight times better than the mac dude?
- xbrowser fonts journal categories - all entries(312) - adventures (26) - cycling (6) - day tripping (3) - floating cabin (4) - hiking (5) - kayaking (2) - family (49) - alexandra (91) - friends (8) - rachel (20) - relatives (18) - scott (36) - tuxedo (4) - informative (61) - book reviews (6) - goodco-badco (12) - humor (11) - noteworthy (60) - investing (2) - penn state (6) - our life (89) - web dev (43) - artizines (3) - astonish me! (5) - b2evo (26) - css (26) - site news (36) - the web (45) - xhtml (17) - zupdate (1) thank you featured donor:
luck,  happenstance or maybe a better game plan?
isn't that what it's all about?
just make it a big mac, cause i've got an appetite for  computing!!
it's kinda like the old "meet scott and rachel" section on our pct webpage, but this "about us" section will be a stand-alone page.
well, here's an underground reversal  that had me giggling.
i really should find a way to say 'thank you' to them (and others who've helped randsco)
(otherwise these videos wouldn't exist)!
or is it a  cadillac or a yugo?
the "red dirt emporium", located in the historic "bricktown district" of oklahoma city, made a donation toward - and is using - photo-caption zoom version 3.
you've seen the mac ads on television,  where mr. pc ends up looking like a goof?
what motivates us on our adventures.
about the kimlers about us
i know i've been meaning to ...
well, here's a different spin on them and they're a tad in pc's favor!
how did we come to be?
enjoy (permalink) views: 13062 views 4 comments · emailthis · guestbook updated: 16-apr-2007 web view count: 13062 viewslast web update: 16-apr-2007 your two sense: xhtml tags allowed.