select a forum ------------------
pc ranges from bad to  absolutely awesome, including 3d graphics.
- features: hey, ever seen a mac with a touch screen, or facial recognition software, or fingerprint software?
more applications: it's a pc world out there, and many things are going to  be made only for windows.
security: macs get viruses.
what i will not give to macs: more secure: no, macs get viruses.
however, there are some pcs that look equal to a mac, or, extremely better (alienware).
• page 1 of 1 return to social jump to:
features: hey, ever seen a mac with a touch screen, or facial recognition  software, or fingerprint software?
more connections: when all of your friends have pcs, there's gonna be  stuff you have to have a pc to do with them, similar to the "more  applications" point.
- cheaper with everything else: if you go to the mac website, and dell, for instance, and you build the same exact computer, same look, same size, same hardware, the macwill come out 2-3 times more expensive.
- mac - 0 - no votes - windows - 1 - 100% - dunno - 0 - no votes - - total votes : 1 mac vs windows by xputnameherex on sat mar 17, 2012 6:17 pm
better looking (casing, that is):
however, there are some pcs that look equal to a mac, or,  extremely better (alienware).
why pcs are better: faster: speed is determined mostly by ram, hard drive space, and  processor, all of which you can get for half the price on a pc vs a mac.
home | contact us | about us | site map | newsletter | link to us copyright © controversial forums
i would say this is equal, not good, but not bad.
with  pcs, you can use things on the internet and you don't even have to install  them, but there are many where you can if you want to.
i'm also leaving out the os, as i think it is a matter of opinion.
with pcs, you can use things on the internet and you don't even have to install them, but there are many where you can if you want to.
as far as i know, you  cannot uninstall the mac preset ones, correct me if i'm wrong please.
mac vs windows by xputnameherex on sat mar 17, 2012 6:17 pm hey  there.
i put this in social, one, because there are no better places, and two, because i think these are really more social barriers between the two sides.
i'm also going to be referring to windows as "pc" (i know it actually means personal computer)
- more applications: it's a pc world out there, and many things are going to be made only for windows.
rules rules: read here first general introductions open forum polls forum main debate forums addiction and drugs driving under the influence legalization of marijuana minimum legal drinking age (mlda)
yes, they are  somewhat helpful, however, they do take up space, if even a small amount.
i'm also going to be referring to windows as "pc" (i know it actually  means personal computer)
unless the user ignores all warnings, they are more secure.
- better software-hardware compatibility: as both are made at the same company, they generally work slightly nicer together, however, remember this is only slightly.
yes, they are somewhat helpful, however, they do take up space, if even a small amount.
as far as i know, you cannot uninstall the mac preset ones, correct me if i'm wrong please.
yes, macs look better than most pcs, i don't deny that.
controversialforums.com advanced search - board index ‹ main debate forums ‹ social - change font size - print view mac vs windows discussions regarding social problems post a reply 1 post
there is very, very little difference, i am being honest here.
why pcs are better: - faster: speed is determined mostly by ram, hard drive space, and processor, all of which you can get for half the price on a pc vs a mac.
of course, when you bring it to an  apple store, they will tell you that it's not a virus, and that it is, in fact,  "something else."
yes, the big things will be made for both (maybe even  linux), however, around half of all programs, if i'm not mistaken, are made  only for pc.
of course, when you bring it to an apple store, they will tell you that it's not a virus, and that it is, in fact, "something else."
more out of the box: i don't care if they come with iphoto, or garage band  or anything.
- more connections: when all of your friends have pcs, there's gonna be stuff you have to have a pc to do with them, similar to the "more applications" point.
all times are utc - 5 hours powered by phpbb © 2000, 2002, 2005, 2007 phpbb group best plr articles | free plr articles | hair loss treatment | http://www.breastactivesworks.com easy ways to make money | breast actives scam | wartrol genital warts treatment | http://www.wartrolreviewed.com
why macs are better: - customer service: remember that this has nothing to do with the computer, however, i will still give it to them because it is much better than most pc services.
graphics: mac video cards range from bad to okay.
the big bang theory cloning creation vs.
- more out of the box: i don't care if they come with iphoto, or garage band or anything.
pm post a reply 1 post
better software-hardware compatibility: as both are made at the same  company, they generally work slightly nicer together, however, remember this is  only slightly.
however,  most mac users don't have anti-virus software, while almost all pc users do.
entertainment illegal music downloading ethics/morals animal rights media censorship control of the media violence in the media medical abortion assisted suicide euthanasia pop-a-pill mentality stem-cell research news forum political debates and issues affirmative action african american president the draft female president foreign aid to israel funeral
top - xputnameherex - novice debater - - posts: 1 - joined: fri mar 16, 2012 7:09
- security: macs get viruses.
i put this in social, one, because there are no better places, and two,  because i think these are really more social barriers between the two sides.
even so, it is entirely the user's fault if they get the virus, not the computer's.
what i will not give to macs: anything else?
i'm also leaving out the os, as i think it is a matter  of opinion.
protesting illegal immigration september 11 conspiracy war in iraq religion jesus christ prayer in public schools separation of church and state science
as someone else put it, if someone hits  their thumb with a hammer, it's not the hammer's fault, it is the clumsy  person's.
as someone else put it, if someone hits their thumb with a hammer, it's not the hammer's fault, it is the clumsy person's.
even so, it is entirely the user's fault if they  get the virus, not the computer's.
• page 1 of 1 mac or windows?
- better looking (casing, that is):
i don't care what you say, they do.
- graphics: mac video cards range from bad to okay.
why  macs are better: customer service: remember that this has nothing to do with the computer,  however, i will still give it to them because it is much better than most pc  services.
cheaper with everything else: if you go to the mac website, and dell, for  instance, and you build the same exact computer, same look, same size, same  hardware, the macwill come out 2-3 times more expensive.
evolution gender selection genetic engineering global warming microchip implants in humans natural evolution nature vs.
a very, very small percentage are made only for mac.
however, most mac users don't have anti-virus software, while almost all pc users do.
nurture intelligent design sexuality gay marriage gay rights movement genetic homosexuality sex education social anti-americanism capital punishment civil liberties corporate responsibility gun control racial profiling reverse discrimination violence in schools sports steroids in baseball spygate suggestions who is online users browsing this forum: no registered users and 1 guest - board index - the team •
yes, macs look better than most pcs, i  don't deny that.
pc ranges from bad to absolutely awesome, including 3d graphics.
no, macs get viruses.
yes, the big things will be made for both (maybe even linux), however, around half of all programs, if i'm not mistaken, are made only for pc.
delete all board cookies •