no, most of that was enterprise/corporate solutions to  integrate it apps like sap and oracle to mobile.
apple is the master at its user interface, but  nokia has for example consistenly made far better cameras on its smartphones  than apple.
nokia introduced tv out in 2006 meaning you could watch your pictures, websites, videos etc on your home tv.
there are far more abilies and functions and services that  game as additional growth areas, like mobile internet or mms picture messaging  or mobile payments and banking, etc.
the screen size is 3.7 inches, which is regressed from 4 inches on the e90 communicator four years ago.
its profits have been declining (some might say perilously).
in the emerging world market, where all the growth is now in dumbphones - nokia's market share is above 50%.
ofcom did not ask about camera use, but did ask about picture sharing and mms.
maybe 2 or 3 thousand just to have some spare capacity, but not a  million per forest..
and elop himself defined ecosystems as they relate to mobile handsets in general and nokia explicitly, as: "ecosystems include not only the hardware and software of the device, but developers, applications, ecommerce, advertising, search, social applications, location-based services, unified communications and many other things."
the total installed base of windows phone today, about a year and a half from launch is... under one percent of the smartphones in use worldwide.
and by its one form factor alone, it will not win many converts, but on the abandoned other form factors, and its lack of typical nokia elements, it is a downgrade from what nokia has been in the past, and yet is not competitive with rivals today.
it actually came from india, from the tata motors factory (the company that makes the cheapest car in the world).
the british know what is the ratner effect and what is the  osborne effect.
how far have  we come?
microsoft has already admitted that it is true, if anyone sends a specific string sms text message (or fb message or tweet) to a microsoft phone based smartphone - it will shut down the phone and when the phone is turned back on, the messaging function is inoperable and the only fix is to wipe out everything stored on the phone - all messages, pictures, phonebook etc.
yahoo? posted by tomi t ahonen at 04:20 pm in android, bloodbath, carriers / operators, emerging world, india, iphone, smartphone, strategy | permalink | comments (27) | trackback (0)
again, that does not end the need for pure  excellence in real singing - witness uk singing sensation susan boyle what the digital convergence did, most of all, it dis-intermediated some  players, and re-intermediated others.
so then we have the other stand-alone digital gadgets, like the advanced digital cameras by canon, nikon etc; or the portable gaming systems like the nintendos and playstatoin portables.
i also like the guidance by the mobilists and futurists, who look at the past  decade, observe that mobile grew 10-fold in that decade, faster than any other  technology of significant size - and then to argue that the same rate of growth  would continue this decade, another full decade of growth of 10-fold.
we will know in a few days when nokia reports its q4 results.
no  matter how much lipstick you put on a pig, it is still a pig.
nokia has easily the production capacity and the world's largest phone sales network and distribution system including the ability to air ship a million phones a day, every day, anywhere it needs to.
by the time the mobile phone had beaten the major rivals, pdas, stand-alone cameras and musicphones, by 2006, the total pocketable gadget market had doubled to more than 200 billion dollars in value, of which mobile had about three quarters.
it does stumble as any handset maker will  stumble (iphone death grip, anyone?)
nokia has a robust and good mobile phones-optimized  smartphone os called symbian, a fully open source os supported by dozens of  handset manufacturers.
so lets take again just the usa.
similar stats from  market after market after market.
welcome stephen and we wish you the very best of  luck from here at the communities dominate blog - both alan moore and i have  been regular advisors to nokia in the past, and we know you will be joining a  great team of professional senior managers who take things strategically and  with focus, yet constantly observing this industry - mobile - to ensure nokia  understands how the landscape is evolving.
thus lumia  will perform worse than nokia smartphones have done before.
the second most used funtion is the  camera.
and then the rep has to do the returns paperwork and packaging hassles.
amassive downgrade to what nokia used to have.
telecom italia mobile, italy * . . .
but consumers have not abandoned  music.
for anyone who  actually owns an iphone will not play long with the lumia in the store, before  knowing the iphone is a far better buy (if you already are an iphone owner).
it doesn't have 12mp.
in countries where the average person has no hope of ever owning a car, the mobile phone is the nearest thing to a true status symbol.
by q4  nokia had shrunk to nearly half the size of its strongest rival, apple's iphone.
it is a cheap copycat of the iphone style touch screen input and lumia abandons natural nokia strengths while showing no competitive advantages.
but after  nokia jumps into bed with microsoft in 2012 the market share is not 20%, it  will be.. 11%.in 2013 nokia and microsoft will not magically recover to 20%.
if you have 20  plants in your home, and really want this level of technology to monitor each  plant, yes, we could quickly pass 50 billion subscriptions.
they try to erase  the known unknowns.
the world's most sold camera brand is nokia.
no, the mp3 players will not be networked on the cellular network (mostly.
$ 34 b ( $ 30 b) . . . .
nokia was 'on the mend'.
that is metering of our utilities.
windows is synonymous with crashes, bugs, delays,  incompatibilty, viruses, spyware and tedious updates.
and by its one form factor alone, it will not win many converts, but on the  abandoned other form factors, and its lack of typical nokia elements, it is a  downgrade from what nokia has been in the past, and yet is not competitive with  rivals today.
motorola was so bad at it, that for about two years, for every one customer they convinced to 'upgrade' to a smartphone, they lost literally nine other previous motorola customers of dumbphones to either other branded dumbphones, or the new pure smartphone makers like apple, rim and htc.
how far have we come?
by 2003, more cameraphones were sold globally than all  stand-alone digital cameras.
technorati tags: ahonen index, ahonen index 2011, biggest companies in  mobile, tomi ahonen almanac, tomiahonen almanac 2012 september 17, 2010 welcome stephen elop to best job in high tech: new ceo for nokia (first, its been a hectic week of travel for me, asia, north america,  europe this week, so apologies for this blog being somewhat 'delayed'.
nokia is more like toyota or gm, where apple is more like ferrari or porsche.
from february 2011, the global carrier community revolted against nokia and elop.
this is a freebie gift to mr elop.
yet  the opportunities did not come from just fixed telecoms services like local and  long distance calls and voicemail, or those enabled on mobile.
this was very confusing and he reversed his decision two months later and today we have the lumia series, the asha series, and even individual phone models like the lumia ace ie lumia 900.
and recently the nokia shareholders have lost faith in nokia, comparing nokia's  flagship model only, rather unfairly, to the apple iphone, and then concluding  that nokia has somehow 'lost it'.
no, lumia will not do better than nokia did before with e-series on symbian and e-series on symbian is more microsoft-friendly and enterprise/corporate user friendly than lumia using windows phone.
but nokia has the world's best carrier partner  network - if the carriers like the n8, it will become the planet's best-selling  superphone, almost by default.
i do feel that olli-pekka kallasvuo got a 'raw deal' in how he was kicked out.
and there is no support for nfc.
that is where we  are with symbian today.
last spring and summer i often got caught up with the minutiae of the percentage in market share or the next user number in text messages or the latest added consumers to mobile, etc.
apple is the master at its user interface, but nokia has for example consistenly made far better cameras on its smartphones than apple.
that could be seen to be  reasonable for adult and employed populations.
no exploding batteries at nokia.
its about 'mobile' as the industry which is the ultimate convergence point and end-state for all digital convergence.
we can have  our washing machine connected to the web (there are some that are sold already  that offer internet connectivity).
every industry analyst with short term quarterly forecasts has either reduced their target or held steady.
nokia utterly dominates the new  smartphone market too (and does it profitably).
symbian bangladesh . . . . .
the truth is 100% diametrically opposite of what elop has been saying (once again).
nokia gave  ever better phones with better features (e7, x7, n9) and the symbian os  released ever better editions and the nokia ovi store became the  second-bestselling app store and everything was improving at nokia.
reason 2 - camera catastrophy so lets go to nokia's second huge advantage against all competitors  outside of japan and south korea domestic markets.
the basic phone is becoming a  commodity product, and if we plot the price of basic phones with moore's law,  by the end of this decade, a cheap cameraphone for africa will cost 1 dollar.
but the growth was  shifted from stand-alone digital cameras to cameraphones and the sales of  stand-alone digital cameras stalled and stagnated.
it was not designed by nokia's top designers from finland.
i based them not on my personal desires and preferences of  what i like in my phones, i based it on the facts and stats of what real  consumers do and want.
these four smartphone makers also make android smartphones.
remember, these customers do not have an internet to go do price-shopping.
the lumia 710 is yes, cheaper  than the 800 but its still far too expensive to become any kind of mass market  success (its price without subsidy is about 350 - 400 dollars).
this  is how he phrased it "windows phone raised its middle finger at the  carriers" and to make matters worse, even after that, currently  "windows phone requires microsoft to push hard on the carriers" and  the carriers do not like this at all.
after apple introduced the iphone in 2007, and changed its name from apple computer to apple, and now calls itself a mobile company, the bigger computer maker rivals have all joined the chorus.
olli-pekka kallasvuo, the disgraced previous ceo could have easily delivered  6.4 million sales of nokia's newest flagship and its os if given those  parameters.
nokia defined itself by a certain  kind of a product – the 12-key phone.
the company that invented the cellular telecoms industry - and launched the world's first mobile internet service, ntt docomo of japan believes so strongly in mobile advertising, they created d2c the world's biggest pure mobile ad agency.
it also sells apps, services, and networking gear.
bluetooth file transfers, microsd cards, these are absolute  must-haves where there will be no practical use or indeed network connectivity  to use microsoft's skydrive.
they do have mobile phones but ones that cost under 50 dollars, often as cheap as 20 dollars new.
and where once nokia mobile phones was a young person's job, today those former young graduates are middle-aged, and have seen the salaries grow and perhaps the hunger of wanting to become the biggest phone maker in the world has dimmed in their eyes.
and obviously, local developers can offer local apps in their home languages!
now nokia's profits have shrunk to  razor-thin.
it is not rushing to mobile.
if the iphone was sexy and slick, and the nokia was more bulky and unsexy, at least the nokia had every conceivable tech built in, and several more you didn't even know existed.
the nokia of old was a profit factory.
thats the 4th major smartphone player, and the third of fortune global 500 rivals to quit the smartphones race.
note again how consistent the finding is with the  above.
what happened to  subtle and stylish?
this would be a painful change, but  nokia has done that many many times before - it once made paper.
they still spend about 30 billion dollars on it annually, only the traditional music publishing industry is getting an ever smaller slice of that.
not in this decade (yet) next lets go to the households.
and in many of the less  affluent countries on that list, even radio does not reach as widely as mobile  phones.
and even those who will use it, will probably not need it for all plants.
whatever you  thought of ovi and symbian 'failing' in apps, it is far worse on windows phone.
and nokia is known for a lot in this area.
and all the evidence says nokia lumia sales in q4 were a total disaster.
there are many application developer issues that are not supported - like the hottest area right now, augmented reality.
and we know the  decorations are not genuine nokia - the operating system and apps (the paint  job).
that guarantees that any current owners of nokia will find the lumia a severe disappointment.
if the internet itself is  headed to mobile, the salvation for a bookseller or video or music or travel  company is not to go online, it is to 'leapfrog' the technology gap and go  directly to mobile.
the world's first person-to-person sms text message was sent in finland in 1993 on the radiolinja gsm network from one nokia phone to another, by a nokia employee riku pihkonen.
when the global ad budget declined, and all other forms of advertising shrunk in revenues, mobile advertising spending doubled worldwide.
three times the effort for zero more  commission - while the customer bitches and moans and gives the sales rep a bad  day.
that is hard to find, and most rivals who tried to do the synergy route, have abandoned it - ericsson, motorola, siemens (used to be a top 5 handset maker, it abandoned its handsets unit first to focus just on networks, in the past decade).
not from august  or july or june.
he combined the osborne effect with  the ratner effect in something i now call theelop
to do that  requires a step change in learning and self-improvement – this is  achieved through continuous contemplation and self-reflection which ultimately  enables the mastery of an aware self/organisation, with the motivation to  pursue truly motivated goals.
but for some consumers - remember this is  only the 7th most important priority - they have their 'check lists'.
so then lets move from animals to plants.
trees won't get us there either.
please read the article for all the  details.
and in the uk, nokia was the phone brand with the highest loyalty (not the iphone or blackberry which were a lot in the news for big market gains).
it seems by early opinions to be a long-overdue hit flagship for nokia.
or take the global internet and all its revenues out of google adwords and broadband fees etc, all of the internet revenues - and multiply that by 20.
no straight lines presents a new logic and inspiring plea for a more human centric world that argues we now have the possibility to truly transform our world, to be more resilient, to be more relevant to us both personally and collectively, socially cohesive, sustainable, economically vibrant and humane, through the tools, capabilities, language and processes at our fingertips.
and where are the qwerty inputs.
rim offers touch input versions of the  blackberry, why can't apple give us a qwerty iphone?
this is our biggest  number and we do need to pump it as much as possible to get us to the 50  billion.
mobile data is worth 250 billion dollars.
[5] how do organisations develop a methodology for  craftsmanship at a personal and more organisational level?
what number is reasonable, i don't know.
if you don't know the history of how devastating microsoft has been to its 'strategic partners' in mobile, like the vampire, its bled them dry.
but the short version is this.
will it change the world for lumia, of course not.
the worse assumption is that all 8 billion sold gadgets are still used by the end of 2020.
apple surrendered to nokia and now pays nokia not just for every iphone made, but apple also paid a lump sum to compensate nokia for the patent infringements of early iphones.
the population of the planet keeps growing.
more likely, today consumers have so many ways to get music by  sideloading and on free music services, that it won't matter one iota.
a huge  support system was in the recording industry to produce the sound of the music,  to produce the cds, to ship them to music retail stores, and to use the radio  stations, music video tv stations like mtv, and promotional concert tours to  help promote the album sales.
and  in microsoft's best country market - the usa - when supported by each of the  three bestselling phone brands of the us, and its biggest non-proprietary  smartphone brand htc - yetmicrosoft's windows brand was so  poisonous, that half of its customer base churned away from microsoft.
informa counted that the world had  67 million  people with a mobile banking account.
the first point to make, is that the author, e.d. kain, had actually written a pair of articles about windows phone, this one yes in favor butalso another one against.
thirdly, please allow me some more clumsiness and brevity and even more meandering in my writing style this time in this blog article, as i am back from vacation and heavily travelling and super-busy, so i wanted to get my thoughts out sooner, rather than try to find the time to refine and edit this blog down some more.
the tech reviews after using windows phone (and lumia) are quite consistent that windows phone is not yet ready for prime time.
pakistan, egypt, bangladesh, vietnam, turkey,ovi ovi ovi... nokia's ovi store supports over 50 languages!
this is what i found: reason 1 - messaging madness: nokia has a natural strength in messaging-oriented smartphones (the most used feature of all mobile phone owners from africa to the usa is messaging, including smartphone owners).
(check out where the leading forecasters now estimate lumia sales for q4.
finnair launched the world's first mobile check-in in 2001 and today half of their passengers use the service.
portable multimedia players including dvd  players sell 130 million.
but i do not  foresee most homes having this technology.
we hear of some great successes - more than half of  helsinki area public transportation single tickes are sold via mobile, and all  of parking in estonia is mobile, and now more than half of all banking accounts  in kenya are mobile banking accounts.
this is the decade of the biggest growth of consumer camera use ever, where the annual market for new digital camera purchases grew by more than 10 fold.
some of that was due to the global economic downturn (remember, 3 of its rivals in the big 5 handset makers reported losses in their handset business during this economic crisis - nokia never did.
what of the brand-spanking new windows phone brand then?
the above chart is of course one of the over 90 tables and charts that are among the topics covered in the tomiahonen almanac 2011.
regionally, the biggest companies of our industry are now split so that 9 come from europe, 9 also from asia, 6 from north america and 1 from latin america (but if you want to count mexico as part of the north american continent as separate from the cultural division then 7 are from the north american continent).
that is the ultimate perfection in 'executing a smartphone strategy' those who marvel at apple's iphone or google android phones today, seem to forget that nokia in its smartphones is not just bigger than all iphones and all android phones put together - in smartphones this past quarter, nokia was almost as big as its biggest rivals numbers 2, 3 and 4 put together!
if you buy the 2011 edition now, you will receive both almanacs for the price of one.
its about 'mobile' as the industry  which is the ultimate convergence point and end-state for all digital  convergence.
he  said because carriers have explicitly decided to support android rather than  windows phone - "that is why windows phone has not sold as well".
in m-money it is very early going.
posted by tomi t ahonen at 12:31 pm in 7th mass media, advertising, africa, android, app stores, asia, carriers / operators, china, convergence, dumbphones, ecosystem, elop, emerging world, finland, google, india, iphone, japan, location-based, market share, microsoft, mobile data & m-web, mobile money, nokia, profits, retail & commerce, smartphone, statistics, strategy, television, usa, users / subscribers | permalink | comments (105) | trackback (0)
reason 12 - poisoned carrier relationships with nokia.
if you think another reason somehow 'trumps' these 13 problems, i suggest you not only decide it is so, because you think that makes sense.
if the iphone was sexy and slick, and the nokia was more  bulky and unsexy, at least the nokia had every conceivable tech built in, and  several more you didn't even know existed.
they were repeating an old story.
but to me, the plausible number of mobile phone subscriptions for the end of this decade is somewhere in the 15 billion to 30 billion range, not in the 50 billion range.
look what is happening.
and here again, nokia has the biggest  production capacity.
the other big us carriers are not selling any lumia handsets this spring.
3 mobile subscriptions per person  (not inconceivable, i for example walk around daily with 3 subscriptions, have  done so since 2003).
remember, the old windows mobile was built to be business-oriented (as was  symbian originally).
but the total smartphone proportion of all phones sold more than doubled in the past two years.
the office suite and some  of its components like word, excel and powerpoint are clear market leaders in  their fields.
but mobile will not enable our air travel.
nokia has a history of truly exceptional feel to its top phones.
some of us of a certain age have piles of kodak slides and snaps, even old kodak cameras around the place.
a lot of finns have migrated to canada, so there is a kinship too, probably most canadians know at least someone who has finnish heritage.
and the series will flop utterly, comprehensively.
but i have finally finished the analysis and am ready to publish the 2011 edition of the ahonen index: 25 largest companies ranked by their mobile revenues.
that is what the 37 million and 64 million numbers reflect.
none of his words have any relationship with reality or the truth.
i made the joke speaking in toronto this week, that finland has just appointed its first-ever canadian vice prime minster - arguably the ceo of nokia is perhaps the second most powerful man in the domestic finnish economy haha..
that is nokia excellence in cameras.
except that the job at nokia in 2010 is actually far better, and far more than those three giants even, two decades ago!
verizon  wireless, usa *  . .
the smartphones were competing with many other nokia smartphones  already in the stores, so they faced competition from nokia's own product line.
we know from global consumer surveys what people do on their phones, and what consumers look for when buying smartphones.
whatever we think of the smartphone buyer in the world, the target customer for potentially 4 out of 5 buyers of smartphones, the consumers, their number 1 interest is sms text messaging.
gartner told us that in 2009 there were 73 million people who used a mobile  phone to make a payment.
take  all that, and multiply that by ten!
before search engines, it was not practical to try to find 'all available  information' on a given topic, unless you lived next door to a major library  like the us library of congress and were a wiz at using the library's card  catalog system - and then spend hours digging through book indexes and tables  of content.
if microsoft was the magic potion - surely nokia should have been able to capitalize on it in 2009 and 2010 before elop decided to set his platforms on fire like the psychotic arsonist.
we've had full mobile payment solutions in the philippines  for a decade already.
if you thought the nokia of the past was 'obsolete' for your market, whether that was the usa or europe or asia-pacific or wherever, this lumia line offers you nothing that is better but on ten separate factors, lumia is now worse than what nokia was last year.
it may - it may - become meaningful somewhere years down the line.
whatever nokia was able to do in 2010, today nokia will do far worse, whether in the usa or rest of the world.
i did suggest this would be a bloody year for smartphones but honestly i didn't expect this many casualties.
and this is all  without considering the natural need of enterprise/business phones - keyboards!
it was just routine, supported with no particular marketing  effort.
except that the job at nokia in 2010 is  actually far better, and far more than those three giants even, two decades  ago!
the most trusted, most desired, most valued  and loved brand.
in japan the mobile wallet is the most advanced where it not just includes your banking and credit and payment and loyalty cards.
motorola was so disgusted it  announced it would discontinue smartphones on microsoft platforms which gained  it a lawsuit to boot.
nokia ceo stephen elop is once again acting in the best interests of microsoft, and against the best interests of nokia.
then yes, most  definitely, microsoft and nokia are in the game and can certainly be believed,  that they can win this game.
and what did cnn still promote in december of 2011 - half a year after the end of the ovi brand -
tomi  ahonen lectures at oxford university's short courses on next generation mobile  and digital convergence.
how awesome is that for mr elop, he gets the media attention for being the new guy, and he has a wonderful story to tell, where he does not need to 'fix nokia' but rather just elaborate clearly what nokia is doing.
but yes, adding cars, we're at 21.4 billion so far.
he finds a genuine nokia asset where nokia  was years ahead of the rivals - like now with mobile advertising - and rather  than fix that unit's execution to deliver massive profits for nokia, he prefers  to sell it.
regionally, the biggest  companies of our industry are now split so that 9 come from europe, 9 also from  asia, 6 from north america and 1 from latin america (but if you want to count  mexico as part of the north american continent as separate from the cultural  division then 7 are from the north american continent).
so the nokiasiemens networking unit has been fighting a brave fight in a loss-making industry and turned it around to generate modest profits - that is a very good sign of good management.
today cameraphones  outsell stand-alone cameras by 10 to 1.
the nokia brand damage is recent and perhaps reversable but microsoft's brand damage with windows mobile and windows phone has been sustained far longer and been far more comprehensive.
so what if we really do put the full microsoft compatibility to e-series?
and yes, a fraction of nokia's total phone output is smartphones, and this year  the revenues out of smartphones roughly speaking match the total revenues of  the dumbphones.
our phone today is far more than 'just' a pda-camera-music-phone.
finnair launched the world's first mobile check-in in 2001 and today half of  their passengers use the service.
the third point raised by forbes is that with windows phone there will be uniformity across devices.
if stephen elop can deliver 6.4 million lumia sales in the past q4, i am willing to say in public, i was wrong, he is competent to manage nokia and i will accept he's made some mistakes that should be forgiven as learning on the job.
this selling of the mobile advertising unit is how nokia's new ceo  indicates"accountability and leadership".
so says comscore in 2011 - said 83% of europeans and  68% of us phone owners sent sms text messages.
if you like qwerty form factors ie a slider or blackberry style  smarpthone, then this look is wrong for you.
i am thinking of former vice president dick cheney and 'we know where the weapons of mass destruction are'.
many will be eager to argue the synergies of windows and office  suite at the enterprise/corporate customers.
this must be lumia's big market and tomi is a total fool to not see it.
and yet they failed to do what one of their major competitors – fujifilm did — embrace digital with both arms and is now thriving.
i had already given my view of apple's strategy in smartphones which i wrote during my summer vacation.
if you don't trust them europeans and want the pew picture,  we have that too.
analysys gave the q2 market shares for china  in 2011 and nokia had crashed in one year to.. 22% with samsung and motorola
nokia has the carrier  relationships to turn a good phone into a big hit and the n8 seems to be very  well poised to do well.
look at the apple lawsuit.
the elop effect collapsed the nokia smartphone  sales globally, not only in the affluent countries but also in the emerging  world countries.
there has never ever ever been any brand even remotely as dominant globally, as nokia is today.
motorola reported  a surprise profit in its handset division, but that was a one-time gain out of  a lawsuit settlement with rim.
and google are not alone among internet giants believing in a mobile future.
and in 10 times out of 12, the carrier will not offer the  lumia which the customer would want.
apple is a classic premium luxury niche maker, who can hope to have 3% of the market - like it has with the macintosh pc, after 26 years of fighting those battles with its 'revolutionary' pc.
so the telecoms industry itself is migrating to mobile, no surprise anymore
again this is not me saying.
(note this does not include the ultra-cheap dumbphones that use the even simpler nokia s30 os, by which nokia's total reach was last year estimated at about 1.7 billion)
and the ceo who thinks its a war about ecosystems, and believes that advertising is a key part of ecosystems, doesn't want to keep nokia's competitive advantage here, one that nokia years ahead of its rivals in discovering and exploiting?
the lumia 900 and lumia 800 do look  like flagship phones and have won plenty of praise, copying nokia's radical  look of the n9 from last year.
as implausible as thinking of buying a corporate jet or a superyacht.
executive summary i know this is a painfully long  article for most to read.
he will be seen to have saved symbian and nokia in the  process..
if the  market is big, and there is money to be made, then application developers will  cope with the fragmentation.
but nokia is not apple.
the digital convergence may be making the difference between the average musician and superstar even greater - a madonna or rolling stones can command astronomical fees, but the average starting rock band probably earns about the same per 'gig' per night, adjusted for inflation, as rock bands did in the time of the beatles and elvis 50 years ago.
so 2 phones per person are not enough.
ofcom did not ask about camera use,  but did ask about picture sharing and mms.
and its not  just that nokia has this incredible reach.
not so often the actual inventor (japan's ntt docomo has most true inventions in the mobile space), but being the fast follower, nokia was well picking winning concepts (cameraphones, consumer smartphones) but made its stumbles too (n-gage).
the poorer  people didn't suddenly all - billions of them - receive massive pay rises.
yes, its share price has taken a battering recently, but even then - in  the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, when all rival giant global handset  makers stumbled, nokia came through with flying colors, its handset unit  profitable every single quarter.
i am not suggesting that all  nokia carrier relationships were in good condition.
how do organisations deal with complexity [1] how do organisations of all creeds deal with a more complex and increasingly ambiguous world?
if thats not enough for you, there is the microsoft marketing machine.
windows phone 7 doesn't even support dual cameras (that came with 7.5).
there  is a second technical manufacturing problem already admitted by nokia .
they do not read tech magazines with product  reviews and contrasts and recommendations.
he actually hired an outside company, compal of taiwan, to  manufacture the lumia smartphones!
roughly a quarter of all cars in south korea are already connected to the internet.
so we can say that in 13 years, mobile has already cannibalized over a third of the computer market.
reason 3 - look and feel is not competitive.
we know microsoft well and most of us use windows based  pcs.
a lot of  finns have migrated to canada, so there is a kinship too, probably most  canadians know at least someone who has finnish heritage.
they are very aware who is who and who plays naughty and who plays nice.
the article got a lot of attention and on first read, to the random  reader, it seems to make good arguments (i will deal with those later).
yes cnn's smartphone app was available on the ovi store.
nokia cultivated the partnership model with its app store, ovi, and its content and its networked services such as maps, advertising, mobile payments etc.
the new almanac 2012 will be released  in late january or early february.
the look and feel will be above average definitely but not on par with the top phones by the rivals.
i am not going to try to calculate the proportional profits fairly by the about 50 or so companies that are the contenders for this top 25 list, and do that also for the profits.
i am not suggesting that all nokia carrier relationships were in good condition.
nokia voluntarily foregoes a  competitive advantage that it has always before taken advantage of.
olli-pekka kallasvuo, the disgraced previous ceo could have easily delivered 6.4 million sales of nokia's newest flagship and its os if given those parameters.
focus on mobile, so they have not abandoned the opportunity in digital  convergence).
microsoft committed 'billions' of marketing support to nokia lumia.
many will be eager to argue the synergies of windows and office suite at the enterprise/corporate customers.
there is very much more in the article including aspects that are particular to the emerging world (where half of all smartphones are now sold) and issues to such matters as build quality - microsoft and nokia have already admitted to two production quality problems with lumia.
if the lumia sales in q4 fall under 4 million, the signs are undeniable that lumia's path is a dead end, a cul-de-sac, and the sooner nokia board sees this, the sooner they must terminate all activites that waste resources pursuing that route.
nokia had a 5 megapixel camera when the iphone was introduced with only 2 megapixels.
its only loss of the past decade was one quarter during this economic crisis, when the nokiasiemens unit's losses were bigger than the profits made in the handsets unit.
it  may be to microsoft's advantage that the customer doesn't buy a meego or  symbian based smartphone - but that customer will then go to another brand -  and in 9 times out o 10, it will be either an iphone or an android.
(and lets ignore voice calls).
in the usa nokia is a bargain-basement cheapo-phone brand and the us market hasn't even seen most of nokia's recent flagship smartphones like the n9, the e7, the n900, the e90 communicator, the n86 etc.
so mobile can only influence a small part of the travel experience, whether in airplanes or hotels or trains etc.
there are three major business units at nokia which derive most of the revenues.
meanwhile there was no mobile phone that was a computer prior to 1997.
and nicely on que, forbes ran an  article of thefive reasons why windows phone will make big splash in smartphone  market.
i think the 3 mobile subscriptions per person concept is not really viable for the whole global population.
how big will it be i think we have enough evidence from early digital convergence to make some preliminary hypotheses.
even in the big growth stages of the android now, symbian  has lost only a little, still selling more than 4 out of every 10 new  smartphones this year - where microsoft's windows mobile and palm have all but  disappeared, and apple's iphone took big losses the past few quarters.
that  to me speaks excellent management in very difficult conditions.
reason 3 - does not win on look and feel
we may get some millions of connections, but this math won't even start to work until we look at billions, or at least major fractions of billions.
but again, its even worse.
and nicely on que, forbes ran an article of thefive reasons why windows phone will make big splash in smartphone market.
nokia is one of the giants of that business too, which is not well known, as it is a b2b (business to business) type of enterprise.
and where are the qwerty  inputs.
no wonder that 'do  no evil' google is getting global support everywhere.
it does stumble as any handset maker will stumble (iphone death grip, anyone?)
in all but one of the above countries, more people access internet content on mobile phones than on pcs (the exception being the usa where the half-point will be passed this year 2012).
so, in a perfect world, nokia could sell 3 handsets on four networks ie 12 variations for the consumer.
several  better cameraphones have it now.
reason 11 - rejected by business / enterprise customers
all aspects are  tried and tested before purchase.
someone else wants a pickup truck, or  a minivan or a smart car.
apple brought a new era to pcs (but was unable to  capture a major part of that new world).
i have recently heard several times the number that the future of mobile/cellular connected devices will leap ten-fold from today, when we have 5 billion mobile phone subscriptions to 50 billion, usually expected to happen during this decade.
kddi keitai, japan * . . . . . . . . .
the usa relationships were  particularly damaged.
htc, microsofts' longest-serving  smartphone partner was so upset with microsoft, it refused to support the final  version of windows mobile and now strongly prioritizes android.
for some buyers a camera is more important.
the customer knows far more accurately what is true  value.
it bought siemens's giant but loss-making  networking unit, and turned it around and now nokiasiemens networks makes some  profits, in a sector of the industry where profits are very rare to see.
of the portable  digital gadgets, with the 8 billion number.
so if you thought that  perhaps the internet was threatening your business, that may be a short-lived  threat, say for industries already feeling the full threat like bookstores or  video rentals or music stores or travel agencies etc.
if the ecosystem is tiny, no matter how uniform it might be, if the market size is too small, they won't care.
vodafone pulls plug on 360  smartphones i did suggest this would be a bloody year for smartphones but honestly i  didn't expect this many casualties.
rather than nokia's own-designed mobile-optimised and smart os platforms, symbian and meego, this fraudster uses an os that was never designed to any degree by any nokia programmers.
in my journey in writing no straight lines, i have seen  this organisational myopia as a constant red thread.
they are based on data  form q4 of 2010.
is this the sensible way to go?
the new ceo inherits a powerhouse mobile phone maker giant,  which is on solid foundations, well positioned to reap benefits of the economic  upturn, and well poised to capture a disproportionately large share of almost  any conceivable mobile phone industry opportunities that can currently be seen  on the horizon, including all flavors of smartphone opportunities from  superphones to app stores.
then it starts to get difficult.
i am not in any way suggesting that all was perfect at nokia when elop took over.
the joke was, that to see what will be on the  next iphone model, just look at a 3 year old nokia flagship.
it may become that one day, but it is not competitive yet.
ultimate job on the planet imagine, its just  about the ultimate job?
no cracked screens at nokia.
reason 9 - deficient operating system the windows phone 7 and 7.5 operating systems do look cool and sexy when shown on stage or briefly demo'ed.
huwaei  mobile, china * . . . .
nokia was the first company to boldly claim that the future of phones was smartphones (a view still found controversial to many today) and more brazenly, nokia was the first company to say a smartphone was a computer (something ridiculed by the 'real' pc makers at the time, and only very recently the pc makers - all 6 of the 6 biggest pc makers in fact - have all found it to be true, that a modern smartphone is indeed a 'real' computer, only a tiny and pocket-sized one).
perception problem against this  light, nokia is 'accused' of 'failing' because of three major faults.
we saw it with the ovi store, we saw it with nokia developer relationships, we saw it with mobile commerce and nfc (the lumia series does not support nfc while nokia's own meego and symbian both of course do support nfc).
the last vestige of nokia strongholds - its superb build quality - is now jeopardized and indeed, first evidence of problems already not just reported - but acknowledged by microsoft and nokia!
if you want the lumia 900, you can only get it on  at&t.
that poisons the reputation both for friends  recommending smartphones and the sales reps at the stores.
both microsoft and windows are very powerful brands for us.
and  nokia does not do colossal mistakes.
on the n9 using meego nokia was able to innovate with touch screen inputs.
it too was verified in 2011.
i counted on this blog that if we add both the traditional pcs including desktops and portable computers, and the smartphones, we get atotal market size of 465 million units for 2009.
so lets see what the facts say.
[3] how do organisations learn to design for a more open world - which will be necessary for survival?
farce of the third ecosystem
yes, about half of south koreans and the japanese have mobile  digital money enabled phones and services, but its nowhere near yet where half  of their economy would transit the phone, and they are the most advanced  digitally converged nations.
real player was standard on nokia phones still last year and most rivals support the file format.
and obviously, after even apple added videocalling  support to the iphone 4, essentially every rival (not using wp7) does  videocalls.
posted by tomi t ahonen at 07:30 pm in africa, android, app stores, asia,  augmented reality, blackberry, bloodbath, business users, carriers / operators,  china, convergence, dumbphones, ecosystem, elop, emerging world, europe, finland ,forecasts, gaming, google, india, iphone, japan, market share, marketing  (classic 4 ps), microsoft, music, nokia, profits, revenues, samsung, smartphone, south korea, statistics, strategy, uk, usa, users / subscribers, youth |  permalink | comments (70) | trackback (0) january 09, 2012 who are the 25 biggest companies by mobile revenues (ahonen index) updated  for 2011 - china mobile takes top honors many of the big companies in mobile are not true 'mobile' companies in that  their history is from other business and often mobile is only a part of their  total income, like with google, apple, samsung etc.
what are the  profitable opportunities in mobile for a phone maker.
gutenberg is a moblogger, martin luther is coding and the medici are using  mpesa
vodafone mobile, uk * . . . . . . .
in a very rough term, we can expect that the mobile phone subscription penetration rate globally will pass about 120% human population per capita during this decade (at least).
that gives us 560 million connected pets.
that was all more than a decade ago when i was actively involved in 'doing it' rather than a consultant 'preaching it' haha...
htc, microsofts' longest-serving smartphone partner was so upset with microsoft, it refused to support the final version of windows mobile and now strongly prioritizes android.
nokia was a juggernaut  profit factory, selling the world's most widely adopted gadget (the mobile  phone) utterly dominating that space and doing it profitably.
why is lumia not  offering a qwerty variant!
and yes, i do believe in dramatic growth to come in mobile, so i am all for the  expectations to be big.
the  reality is that recently the iphone market share has been declining (four  quarters in a row) where nokia's market share held steady or actually grew.
so just to compare apples to apples, the  new operating system launch led by the new flagship phone, lumia 800, would  need to sell 6.4 million copies in the past q4, only to match what nokia did a  year ago.
so doing your microsoft business solution is far better on a symbian e-series phone than with windows phone!
nokia was very good also at keeping to its vision - not for example taking the populist view from 2006 that flip phones would take over the world (anyone remember the razr).
but there is a big picture to it all.
because of that, nokia can't even start to ship low-cost smartphones until the second half of this year at the earliest (if microsoft manages to deliver on time).
the chief executive officer of nokia had lost the trust of the owners of the company, and therefore, could not really sustain the trust of the board either.
pakistan, egypt, bangladesh,  vietnam, turkey,ovi ovi ovi... nokia's ovi store  supports over 50 languages!
please read the article for all the details.
but it will help create some image of stephen elop as a miracle maker if analysts a few years later start believing a legend that elop came to save nokia and in doing that, he defeated apple's unstoppable gains in smartphones.
will disrupt more than enable
similar stats come from all  around the world and obviously nokia's own reported smartphone unit sales tell  the same morose tale.
while mass market consumers are usually blissfully ignorant of the backstabbing in the corporate world of partnerships, the carriers/operators are not.
apple iphone, usa * . . . .
they are bulletproof.
on the n9 using meego nokia was  able to innovate with touch screen inputs.
where nokia smartphones tended not to be the coolest and sexiest in recent  years, at least nokia was always known for stuffing every conceivable tech  feature onto its flagship phones.
there is the new n8.
this damage is not only the world record crash of market share of any mobile phone handset maker.
i have not used a lumia or any  windows phone based smartphone.
so what  happened to the big four camera brands?
the measured sales are worse than that.
and the ceo who thinks its a war about ecosystems, and  believes that advertising is a key part of ecosystems, doesn't want to keep  nokia's competitive advantage here, one that nokia years ahead of its rivals in  discovering and exploiting?
readhorace dediu's  review of in memoriam: microsoft's previous strategic partners.
but microsoft was known as the evil empire long before they announced the partnership with nokia.
they were involved in the first mobile battle of convergence, what i  called the 'battle for the pocket' in my second book m-profits in 2002.
so before i discuss the os and the apps, lets  do the more important factors starting from the top.
and what did cnn still promote in december of 2011 - half a year after  the end of the ovi brand -
who invented the smartphone?
bluetooth file transfers, microsd cards, these are absolute must-haves where there will be no practical use or indeed network connectivity to use microsoft's skydrive.
and for  nokia, who cares.
the camera industry boldly  and bravely (and foolishly) thought mobile phone based cameraphones would never  catch on, and never rival their industry.
the computer industry is headed to mobile.
a few of the 7-8-9 year olds perhaps, but thats not enough to  push us far above current 6.8 billion level, in particular that for those few  of the eldest in this group, we then have to balance out those elderly people  who will be dying in this decade.
the past nokia phones, dumbphones and smartphones have dominated the emerging world.
understand that even in 2013, symbian will utterly tower over windows phone in installed base.
in practise, its banking and credit  cards when considering the classic major financial industries, or digital money  in a technical sense (insurance is also going to join the mobile revolution a  bit later).
nokia had been in the top 10 for the past  decade, as high as 4th best brand in the world.
elop could decide how and where to introduce the actual models  to the public, how near or far from the commercial launch date.
nokia could have given us great feel on the mechanics - where nokia excels far above all other handset makers.
nokia introduced this  fantastic feature on the n900 in 2009 (note, yes, read thumb drives and other  usb memory devices including portable hard drives making the smartphone behave  just like a real laptop).
we  saw it with the ovi store, we saw it with nokia developer relationships, we saw  it with mobile commerce and nfc (the lumia series does not support nfc while  nokia's own meego and symbian both of course do support nfc).
how is that possible?
that is the nokia mid-price  smartphone.
regardless, it is patently obvious thatmicrosoft relationships with carriers were bad before and are getting worse with windows phone.
but nokia has the world's best carrier partner network - if the carriers like the n8, it will become the planet's best-selling superphone, almost by default.
we can book our seat and pay for the ticket and get a boarding pass to the phone, but we still need an airplane to burn jet fuel to fly from one airport to another.
for me the real frustration is watching companies career into oblivion, which also reminds me of the opening words from no straight lines.
i am always talking of real prices, not the bogus prices of bundled contracts with handset subsidies.
$ 13 b ( $ 12 b ) . . . .
nokia had the best carrier relationships in the world.
but these gadgets are relatively expensive, and there is no point in paying for their cellular connectivity for the 20 to 30 year life that the tree spends growing to full size before it is felled.
[4] how do organisations learn to design for a more  participatory world?
and yet they failed to do what one of their major competitors –  fujifilm did — embrace digital with both arms and is now thriving.
reason 8 - fails on apps and app store.
forbes said windows  phone would have less patent wars.
note that while apple's iphone  is a one-trick pony, and only sells a touch screen super smartphone - nokia  keeps selling in similar quantities of touch screen smartphones across all its  product lines.
[6] how do organisations prepare for and design for transformation?
it did not set the world on fire, the gaming side.
note this growth was not that smaller 'newcomers' making smartphones had 'grown' into the global 500.
and for several years now, nokia has been selling more than a million handsets every single day of the year, including weekends and holidays.
that diminished - but did not eliminate - the role of the traditional music studio for creating music.
reason 3 - does  not win on look and feel
and this amazing transition they have done -  consistently - while making the best profits of any big phone maker.
nsl store posted by alan moore at 06:37 pm in bloodbath, books, carriers / operators, convergence, elop, nokia, strategy | permalink | comments (22) | trackback (0) technorati tags: crisis, disruption, innovation, kodak, mobile, nokia, photography, technology there are 6 challenges i believe that organisations have to navigate to thrive in a non-linear world.
with the language support, the ecosystems nationally around the carriers and nokia grew meaningful in many cases.
bright ferrari red, the  prancing horse logo and all.
with symbian at low-cost  smatphones, nokia had conquerred the world.
that doesn't matter, we now have an ex microsoft  executive,
cloudtalk surveyed us smartphone owners in july and found 71% used sms and only 40% used the mobile web (they didn't ask about apps).
if the customer wants a specific model, and that is not  sold by that carrier,the facts tell us that the smartphone customer  would be willing to buy another lumia or even another nokia smartphone - except that because of management madness, there are no others.
just one - one - ringing tone - sold half a billion dollars - in paid downloads to mobile phone users - in one year - three years before apple even opened up its app store.
people at nokia talked about a  multimedia mobile computer, but it couldn’t look beyond those 12 keys.
the numbers are irrefutable, but the myth  prevails that nokia is somehow 'losing' and specifically 'losing to the  iphone'.
no wonder that 'do no evil' google is getting global support everywhere.
there also are many other industries that are seeing impact from mobile, but  who are unlikely to be totally cannibalized by mobile.
but lets assume it truly happens.
but please read the full analysis: lets start with consumers smartphones (invented by nokia four years before the blackberry) first were enterprise/business tools.
the perfection in the camera shutter on the n93 or the precision of the hinges on the e90 communicator or the sheer delight of engineering bliss that is the slider/folder motion in the e7.
even the inventor of sms, matti  makkonen finished his career at nokia (he was my last mentor).
75 m . . . . . . . . .
if you seriously think that there is a  trend to apps in the phone business, then yes, nokia saw it long before the  current hysteria, and had built its app offering and business systematically.
its easy for many in  banking and credit cards to be fooled into thinking this tsunami wave of  convergence will not hit their shores.
the third biggest factor for smartphone buyers in the emerging world, far ahead  of apps or the os, is the network provider ie the carrier ie mobile operator.
it was just routine, supported with no particular marketing effort.
those are not my numbers, they are morgan stanley's numbers and they are the first analyst house to dare to make a projection on the nokia-microsoft partnership.
and nokia has lost most of its  market share in the us market where blackberry, the iphone and various android  phones now are popular.
after apple introduced the iphone in  2007, and changed its name from apple computer to apple, and now calls itself a  mobile company, the bigger computer maker rivals have all joined the chorus.
reason 4 - fails on nokia brand
lets see how strong the  windows brand is in smartphones.
nokia very literally scared away six out of every ten customers it had a year ago.
rather than sell ad unit, why not allow sales of n9 what i cannot understand, is if nokia is in the business of selling mobile phones, and its most profitable smartphones are currently onthe undersirable lumia brand (where sales representatives at stores find that in 11 cases out of 12, a customer who buys a nokia branded smarthpone refuses to take a lumia) and thehighly desirable meego platform (where sales representatives find that one in four customers who buys a nokia smartphone, will buy an n9 which uses the meego operating system) - why is elop not willing to sell the n9 (and its sister phone the n950) in every market!
stephen elop is an excellent communicator but he seems to be a systematic liar.
luckily elop has seen the error of his way and now starting with the lumia 710 the practise is ending, but there are still phones in the pipeline that don't allow battery changes - like the lumia 900.
this is good, now  we are at 39.6 billion.
company, country . . . . . . . . .
we've heard the internet people like google and yahoo  say that the next internet is mobile; and in the countries where the internet  is already fully mobile (south korea, japan etc) they say the next internet is  in the car.
maybe that is not a big surprise, they have  been predicting the pocket computer for two decades already.. the  media industries are more interesting.
effect, but elop has added to the problems continuously ever since.
posted by tomi t ahonen at 12:02 pm in africa, asia, blackberry, business users, carriers / operators, china, convergence, dumbphones, emerging world, europe, forecasts, india, japan, location-based, m-commerce, mobile money, scandinavia, smartphone, statistics, stats police, strategy, users / subscribers | permalink | comments (41) | trackback (0) vacations are good for fresh thinking.
except that something wild happened between 2010 and today.
if you walk into the store with the  apps as your decision criterion, then windows phone fails from the start.
so while nokia had every chance to gain an advantage on the look side, it voluntarily abandoned about half of the total market potential.
if you think another reason somehow 'trumps' these 13  problems, i suggest you not only decide it is so, because you think that makes  sense.
i do feel that olli-pekka  kallasvuo got a 'raw deal' in how he was kicked out.
and when kodak finally did embrace digital in 1993 it did with  hesitance that comes when companies are afraid to cannibalize their existing  businesses for the sake of the future.
there are indeed real  problems too.
they are so poor they don't even own a radio receiver.
blackberry is collapsing in consumer sales in the usa, yes, that is true (but growing internationally) but the enterprises are replacing their smartphones rather loyally, berry by berry.
and they manage this profitably.
there is no slot for any kind of memory card which is regressing from the microsd slot in the n8 that supported 32 gb memory cards.
the 'talent scout' at recording companies  (the big labels) is a job that is disappearing.
the former nokia executive has run a consulting practise on digital  convergence, interactive media, engagement marketing, high tech and next  generation mobile.
what is ahead of the selection of apps and the operating system in selecting smartphones in the industrialized world?
(for us readers, remember, a 'free' iphone 3gs on 2 year contract is not a free phone.
so nokia lumia trades the best carrier relationships to bad ones, and then partners with the company with the worst relationships - that has been making them only worse last year.
but that is rare and would take years of competence to develop by the bookstore owners, and still would not be nearly as powerful as the amazon recommendation engine, in pinpointing exactly what kind of books i may like.
in japan the mobile wallet is the most  advanced where it not just includes your banking and credit and payment and  loyalty cards.
imagine if if i sold you a ferrari.
no, most of that was enterprise/corporate solutions to integrate it apps like sap and oracle to mobile.
$ 19 b ( $ 18 b)  . . .
advertising has been on mobile phones for a decade already but in mostly small numbers and niche campaigns hidden in the digital ad budgets.
if the internet itself is headed to mobile, the salvation for a bookseller or video or music or travel company is not to go online, it is to 'leapfrog' the technology gap and go directly to mobile.
all aspects are tried and tested before purchase.
if lumia fails to sell 4 million copies in q4, it will be so comprehensively rejected that nokia cannot revive it.
lets add  in the symbian sales and see.
but as the mass market vanished, the mass market business also shifted.
sold what, 4 million copies.
the (former) director general of the bbc said that all broadcast content will be available on mobile (and bbc's successful iplayer is a perfect example of how a broadcaster can take a big slice out of the digital convergence into mobile).
in some of the more  affluent markets on the above list, most households do have tv sets like in  china and russia.
the original symbian os which powers nokia's smartphones was not designed for touch screen inputs.
that is where we are with symbian today.
but i do not foresee most homes having this technology.
considering how heavily  smartphones can be used on some days this is a huge disadvantage, especially  for power users who surf the web, use wifi, shoot video, play music, watch  youtube videos etc etc etc.
and its not just megapixels.
and to see how widely dispersed  this industry is, those top 25 companies are spread across 15 different  countries.
nokia has far higher assigned esteem than just a phone or gadget.
to be a little more expansive in no straight lines i write: in many ways ambiguity is the output of our current trilemma, but for  that very reason it must also be a defining principle.
the top 7 most important decision criteria are in this order: 1) brand, 2) model of handset; 3) network provider; 4) look and feel; 5) features and services; 6 operating system; and 7) apps and content.
this is the best game on the  'amazing' app store.
lastly forbes mentions xbox live support.
this is probably more like windows 2.0 (remember that, ouch ouch ouch) than windows 3.0 which finally was the first windows on the pc that was (barely) usable.
the flash on the lumia 800 is led, the first nokia flagships to go better was the n95 and n82 in 2007 with xenon flash.
i do know nokia pretty well, as a former nokia executive and having followed it actively through my independent consulting career this past decade, and regularly discussing nokia in my books and on this blog (i was just quoted about nokia in the financial times this week for example).
so is it factually not true (once again the elop delusions) in this empirical case about fighting in ecosystems rather than handsets, that nokia supposedly "fell behind, we missed big trends, and we lost time.
hearing about kodaks resignation and demise also got me thinking about nokia, and indeed other organisations and industries that struggle and fail as they were unable to adjust to what was them an ambiguous world.
in that decade, nokia became not just the world's biggest mobile  phone maker, and the gadget most used on the planet - nokia became the world's  most prevalent 'clock' or 'watch', the most used camera brand - even the nokia  default ringing tone, known as the 'nokia tune' - became the most recognized  song on the planet, known more than white christmas or happy birthday or any  song by the beatles or elvis or frank sinatra or michael jackson or madonna.
no wonder nokia's brand is being flushed down the toilet.
this damage is not only the  world record crash of market share of any mobile phone handset maker.
note, this doesn't exist and no word  has been given that it will be arriving to windows phone and/or lumia.
even the 'burning platforms obsolete' symbian based nokia (ovi) app store has twice that in apps.
anssi vanjoki even if asleep, even if simultaneously having  nightmares, could still outperform the 6.4 million under those conditions.
and is this relevant?
they have remained silent (in shock).
but yes, apps and the mobile web had switched places (they did not ask about the camera).
but its still tiny bits in small  countries.
even stephen elop's past employer microsoft believes so strongly in mobile advertising, they bought screentonic, and today have mobile advertising a central aspect of the windows phone ecosystem.
of the total population on the planet, out of any person who has ever used any type of camera, for 9 out of 10 such users, the only type of camera they have ever used, is on some cameraphone.
and for the car makers, it  makes no sense to split their data traffic to many mobile operators, rather to  accumulate their total traffic load and negotiate with all carriers/mobile  operators to get the best bulk deal for the whole fleet of cars, on one  network.
we can have our washing machine connected to the web (there are some that are sold already that offer internet connectivity).
his reference client list  includes axiata, bank of america, bbc, bnp paribas, china mobile, emap,  ericsson, google, hewlett-packard, hsbc, ibm, intel, lg, mts, nokia, ntt  docomo, ogilvy, orange, rim, sanomamedia, telenor, teliasonera, three, tigo,  vodafone, etc.
in india for example nokia was  toppled in 2011 from being the topmost brand.
until they get disrupted - brutally, cruelly, their cultural hubris means they can't deal with the ambiguity.
npd reported in 2010  that 46% of all mobile phone handsets sold in the usa had a qwerty keyboard  either as its sole input or combined with a touch screen input.
and nokia would often time its mass market launches with particular precision - consider its 3g phones for example.
and elop could plan carefully, organize everything and make sure the most important product launch in nokia's history would be a total success.
nokia could throw all  at it, and microsoft would essentially then double that still.
if you seriously believe that microsoft can win enterprise/corporate customers of any meaningful degree with nokia, you are deluding yourself.
lets look at specific consumer opinion.
ego's get really big (i know - "alan if you are not going to give me a really big number we are not having this conversation") and then the more dangerous and subtle form of hubris manifests itself silently, slowly from the top and it trickles down into every nook and cranny in the company - but the problem with that is this is where mobile operators exist - in hubristic ambiguity.
the employees did this with aliases, but were  revealed from the website addresses they used.
the prospects are far worse than that  even.
all the new ceo needs to do, is to communicate nokia's true performance more clearly than previous nokia managers have done in the past.
i'll be the first to admit most consumers won't use most features and in recent years the smartphones have become so complex, even expert users couldn't work all parts of their phones.
yes, we have the clever plants-to-humans communications by agrihouse of japan who offer the humidity sensors to plants that send sms messages to the owner saying when the plants need to be watered.
so we can say that in 13 years, mobile has  already cannibalized over a third of the computer market.
489 ** 20 (19) . . . .
videogaming followed and today a quarter of videogaming service revenues is generated on mobile.
coming at you, with the black line down the centre coming at you, black and slick and tarry-shining against the white of the slab, and the heat dazzles up from the white slab so that only the black line is clear, coming at you with the whine of tires, and if you don't quit staring at that line and don't take a few deep breaths and slap yourself hard on the back of the neck you'll hypnotise yourself and you'll come to just at the moment when the right wheel hooks over the black dirt shoulder off the slab, and you'll come to jerk her back on
reason 2 - camera catastrophy - nokia mobile phones have always been known for good cameras, its flagship phones tend to have had the best cameras in the world.
58% and 53% respectively used the camera.
the modern way to do utilities metering is with a digital meter, connected wirelessly to the network.
so if we count nokia branded qt  ecosystem potential reach, it is well in excess of 1 billion pockets.
nokia is able to stretch its range to suit very divergent needs.
but  not to tag all trees, only those scheduled for the next round of cuts in the  forest.
one should not even bother to mention the word 'apps' not even when discussing the business of apple or google today.
if you don't trust them europeans and want the pew picture, we have that too.
so the second highest factor deciding which smartphone  normal consumers buy, is brand.
i have used real consumer data mostly from 2011, to examine every major element that is decisive in smartphone purchases today.
nokia has been selling 'comes with music' handsets for years.
it did not set the world  on fire, the gaming side.
this is all someting stephen elop was not in any way involved with, yet he stands to reep the rewards of the work that was done before him.
the forbes article starts off saying windows phone  has a totally unique user interface.
the users absolutely love it, suggesting the phone seems to read  your mind..  and taking those lessons, nokia launched nokia money in india  and is enabling near field to all its new smartphones.
no, lumia will not do better than nokia did  before with e-series on symbian and e-series on symbian is more  microsoft-friendly and enterprise/corporate user friendly than lumia using  windows phone.
nokia is not apple apple was a struggling pc maker who was finding it difficult to sustain the proprietary macintosh operating system and its expensive ecosystem.
in practise, its banking and credit cards when considering the classic major financial industries, or digital money in a technical sense (insurance is also going to join the mobile revolution a bit later).
the new almanac 2012 will be released in late january or early february.
why is every blackberry and every nokia e-series carrying a full qwerty keyboard?
and do remember, this is not just about  smartphone apps, or even about smartphones.
adjusted for growth, this time  that would be 6.4 million units.
note that all of the above come ahead of your precious app store.
the most used aspect on our phones is not apps  or web surfing.
the top 3 are not just from different countries, but based on different continents.
and while we are on the look, what about those weird neon colors?
there has never ever ever been any brand even  remotely as dominant globally, as nokia is today.
he looked  you in the eye and lied, deliberately.
there is the basic phones unit, there is the newer smartphones unit,  and there is the roots of nokia's telecoms business (many people do not know  this, long before nokia made handsets, it was a telecoms networking equipment  maker) which is now known as nokiasiemens networks.
the  reason nokia is now conducting a fire sale of its best assets is only due to  incompetent management by its ceo, causing self-induced damage to nokia, its  products, its carrier relations, its customers and its brand.
the sensible smartphone  designed for emerging world markets as a low-cost smartphone will have dual sim  slots, will have family ringing and family phonebooks (allowing the sharing of  one phone with several family members) and will include the torch/flashlight  etc where the village has no street lights at night etc.
if stephen elop can  deliver 6.4 million lumia sales in the past q4, i am willing to say in public,  i was wrong, he is competent to manage nokia and i will accept he's made some  mistakes that should be forgiven as learning on the job.
the digital convergence may be  making the difference between the average musician and superstar even greater -  a madonna or rolling stones can command astronomical fees, but the average  starting rock band probably earns about the same per 'gig' per night, adjusted  for inflation, as rock bands did in the time of the beatles and elvis 50 years  ago.
there was  once a need for staffs of receptionists to answer phones, but voice mail took  most of those jobs.
that is what you need if you want a competitive advantage.
they are based on data form q4 of 2010.
and the nsn unit is a drain on profitability, even if they  manage miniscule profits in the unit.
the smartphones were competing with many other nokia smartphones already in the stores, so they faced competition from nokia's own product line.
that is all water under the bridge.
the n97 was a rare nokia stumble, but that  pain is just about over.
informa counted that the world had 67 million people with a mobile banking account.
there is the issue of becoming a box-mover.
no, nokia doesn't need patent protection, and  this wont' matter one iota in lumia's success or failure.
if you do love  this purist touch screen look - then you will buy..
now it seems to be clear, it will be that the internet will  converge onto the mobile.
then nokia had to be far better than ranked 8th outside of the usa, after all the usa is by far the biggest economy on the planet.
but lets just examine that potential advertising target audience a bit more.
and now once again we see it with mobile advertising.
take a look at tomiahonen almanac 2011 edition.
$ 24 b ( $ 25 b) . . . .
not only has microsoft been sleeping  with everybody, but microsoft then awards its 'strategic partners' with a  sexually transmitted incurable disease as a parting gift.
and that kind of provocative argument does suggest those considering the market opportunity to also focus on who and what is to be connected, to understand we will run out of humans to connect, very soon, and the growth will need to be made from other devices and gadgets and pets and so forth.
even if every one of them was now suddenly made 3g compatible with a mobile data subscription, in ten years of sales we'd only hit 4 billion more connected devices.
now we have seen what the lumia is like, when managed by  stephen elop, and it is an utter, comprehensive flop - on every single one of  the 13 relevant issues that matter in the market success of smartphones.
there are lots of opportunities, but also lots of endless pits of wasted effort in mobile, where the profits will never come.
and nokia invented the consumer smartphone, utterly crushingly devastatingly dominates it, and leads it.
except that i have  bad news for you.
it did not surprise any real experts of the mobile industry,  many of us said days after elop announced hismad microsoft strategy last  february, that this would be the result, like i did on this blog, correctly  forecasting that nokia's market share would crash to 12% by the end of the  year, and nokia's strongly growing profits in its smartphone unit would reverse  into loss-making, and the damage to all of nokia would be so severe, that all  of nokia would generate a loss by the end of the year.
100% efficiency required 24 / 7 / 365.25.
the lumia 800 doesn't support hdmi out  which came to nokia on the e7, and now some top rivals do it too.
i have been preaching the convergence story in each of my 9 books and was personally involved in the early stages of the digital convergence, from creating the world's first computer company advertisement to the internet (media and internet convergence) to leading the team that created the world's first fixed-mobile converged solution (fixed and mobile telecoms convergence) to authoring early documents on the future of convergence (at nokia's telephony gateways digital convergence unit, i authored the first white paper for the industry to discuss how to do the internet on mobile).
there are indeed real problems too.
the sad thing is, that usually  with new lines, nokia has done a pair, ie the n8 was the tablet style pure  touch screen, and its sister model was the e7 with the qwerty slider.
the lumia 800 doesn't support video calling (gosh, how far back can i go, i think it was the 6680 back about 2004 that first had videocalling support and every nokia flagship has had it since.. except not now the lumia.
we are now fast approaching the 50 dollar smartphone led by ultra-low-cost phone makers who specialize in the emerging world markets, from global giants like zte and huawei, to regional players like mifone of africa and micromax of india etc.
i am always talking of real prices, not the bogus prices of bundled contracts  with handset subsidies.
in europe pew found in every country the same order, sms most, camera second and web third.
it may - it may - become meaningful somewhere years down  the line.
we've heard the internet people like google and yahoo say that the next internet is mobile; and in the countries where the internet is already fully mobile (south korea, japan etc) they say the next internet is in the car.
nokia once made wifi  equipment, broadband equipment, etc etc.
not one, not a one analyst has increased their forecast.
its easy for many in banking and credit cards to be fooled into thinking this tsunami wave of convergence will not hit their shores.
its the ultimate job for someone hungry to make a name as  a miracle-maker in high tech.
so i can talk about nokia's strategy and corporate health, in this age of the 'ultimate contest in convergence' for the 5 trillion dollar prize, as i blogged last week.
it may become so in the future, but its not yet nearly competitive with advanced os platforms out there.
there is a parallel trend from basic phone pad (12 key) ie t9 inputs to qwerty inputs, especially for enterprise/business users (email) and youth (sms and instant messaging).
the african farmer who earns 2 dollars per day, can neither afford to buy the iphone at 600 dollars without contract, nor to sign up for a 2 year contract of 50 dollars per month to get a 'free' iphone on handset subsidy).
first, remember that only 1 in 5 smartphones sold worldwide is a business/enterprise smartphone.
(for us  readers, remember, a 'free' iphone 3gs on 2 year contract is not a free phone.
if you like qwerty form factors ie a slider or blackberry style smarpthone, then this look is wrong for you.
will it change the  world for lumia, of course not.
not one,  not a one analyst has increased their forecast.
then the comparison - sms text  messaging alone is worth 100 billion dollars.
so if we look at lego the dangers of trying to innovate whilst looking in the rear view mirror om malik writes, as my friend pip coburn says, turnarounds never turn.
a billion may seem like a "big number" to those who don't understand mobile, but hey, crazy frog the ringing tone - yes
we are looking at the biggest economic  prize of our lifetimes, and it is 'in play' as we speak, with fortune 500  giants like nokia, apple, google, hewlett-packard, vodafone, microsoft, sony,  samsung etc all angling to be one of the winners in this ultimate race of the  decade, perhaps even the race of the century.
the engine your tata sportscar has, came from proton the cheap car maker in malaysia.
one mobile phone  subscription, certainly.
so maybe we can find salvage from the microsoft side of this partnership.
the tech reviews after using windows phone (and lumia) are  quite consistent that windows phone is not yet ready for prime time.
thats a bit  what the job of ceo of nokia is today.
and rather than it costing say 200,000 dollars, i charge you 150,000 dollars for the brand new ferrari.
we heard from apple - the leader in app stores - earlier this year, that the total earned by the apple iphone app store last year was under a billion dollars.
paid downloads and paid customers to mobile phones, not smartphones, globally, years before angry birds.
last spring and summer i often got caught up with the minutiae of the  percentage in market share or the next user number in text messages or the  latest added consumers to mobile, etc.
we may get some millions of connections, but this math won't even start to work  until we look at billions, or at least major fractions of billions.
this carnage has all been a self-induced wound, and it started with theelop
the above is all  sales related matters.
nokia monitored the space, and as mobile advertising slowly achieved acceptance beyond some of the most advanced markets like japan and south korea (and scandinavia) nokia then got serious about mobile advertising when it bought enpocket.
this issue is a total non-issue - for end-user consumers  when buying the smartphone.
nokia which could easily do this, rather has made three variations of one boring theme.
does this  phone have lte.
elop's priorities are wrong.
i am sure we are all a little sad of the passing of kodak.
the north american  market situation is the trickiest communication problem.
and lets be really really  clear about this.
secondly, remember that blackberry owns roughly speaking half of  that.
the worse assumption  is that all 8 billion sold gadgets are still used by the end of 2020.
the iphone app store is the world's bestselling smartphone app store .. in those countries where the primary language is english.
they had the wisdom to recognise the old model of commerce was broken they had the courage to explore new and emergent means by which to create  a new sustainable business they listened deeply and evolved an internal ability to critically  appraise where they needed to get to they recognised the important patterns in co-creation and how they could  have real benefits for r&d, organisational capability, commercial models  and marketing
so next lets connect our pets.
and before you say 'windows' - the second most popular smartphone in us businesses - microsoft's home country and microsoft's windows pc and office suite penetration's best country by far - is not windows, not windows mobile nor windows phone.
but some of it is no doubt historical cost reasons.
the world's first full qwerty smartphone was also invented by nokia and it continues to hold a similar 'blackberry-matching' market share in all qwerty phones with its e-series and other qwerty phones.
whatever you thought of microsoft success or failure in the past in mobile, the ex general manager of windows phone tells us that microsoft had  indeed had a bad relationship with carriers, microsoft's attitude  to carriers had already been one of arrogance and abuse; and that carriers  hated it;and that since then microsoft had been making matters worse - and the resulting penalty from carriers was to push  sales away form microsoft to android.
nokia defined itself by a certain kind of a product – the 12-key phone.
nokia's past flagship phones have proudly done ar, but not these lumias.
nokia has the widest range of components and suppliers.
in 2010 nokia's annual unit sales was 100 million smartphones which gave nokia a market share in smartphones of: 33%.
we can expect in the future more and more of the newcomers on  the list to come from emerging world markets.
for the mobile industry that was far more than 'enough'.
not from may, but from april and march.
apple's iphone or indeed none of apple's products compete directly with 2/3 of  nokia's business (the dumbphones and the networks).
we take  electricity for granted.
what usually totally surprises us based readers is how strong nokia  is outside of the usa.
the  enterprise/business market is very stable over time, it will not be  significantly over 100 million today, so enterprise smartphones account for  roughy speaking 1 out of every 5 smartphones sold globally.
motorola was so disgusted it announced it would discontinue smartphones on microsoft platforms which gained it a lawsuit to boot.
this new nokia ceo blog is also going to be, by necessity, a review of nokia's smartphone strategy.
this sale of nokia's pioneering mobile ad unit is how the ceo rewards  those parts of nokia that did indeed"deliver innovation fast  enough".
windows phone app store?
tomi and i wrote about generation c (the community generation) 10 years ago.
i took the 13 most relevant areas which cover consumer phones and business/enterprise phones; across the rich world and the emerging world.
so this is utter speculation of what might help the smartphone.
but it will help create some image of stephen elop as a miracle maker if  analysts a few years later start believing a legend that elop came to save  nokia and in doing that, he defeated apple's unstoppable gains in smartphones.
there is a second technical manufacturing problem already admitted by nokia .
sweden started this summer the first  parliamentary discussions about when is the right time to abandon printing  cash, and moving to a mobile money only digital money economy!
central to ecosystem
so its no surprise to my readers and fans, and readers at this blog, that i believe passionately in digital convergence.
canalys statistics tell us that in china in 2010 in q2 the  market share for nokia (obviously running symbian) was.. get this.. 77% !!!
telefonica movil, spain * . . . . . .
but if you do love  the pure slab tablet style pure touch screen smartphone.
if we split that by weeks, its 1,000 trees cut per week.
these were major surveys of all mobile phone  owners.
but yes, even if you like  this, this idea is pure speculation and cannot be implemented this year.
the future of the computer industry is mobile.
except that i have bad news for you.
nothing was forced upon him.
so the 50 billion number has to include lots of devices per person, as well as a lot of non-human connections, whether devices, household gadgets, cars, etc; as well as other living beings like pets, farmyard animals and even connecting other things like plants.
the xbox brand is strong.
windows phone had its peak sales a year ago of about 1.5 million  smartphones in the quarter.
the world's first  full qwerty smartphone was also invented by nokia and it continues to hold a  similar 'blackberry-matching' market share in all qwerty phones with its  e-series and other qwerty phones.
look at apple, a computer maker, who  decided to do its music player (ipod) on a phone as the original featurephone  iphone 2g, and then decided to make it a full 'pocket computer' by the second  release of the iphone 3g as a real smartphone in 2008.
similarly for example notebook and netbook pcs are not counted for lenovo or samsung etc.
we can expect in the future more and more of the newcomers on the list to come from emerging world markets.
it is perfectly possible  that nokia and microsoft marketing have convinced a random customer that they  do want the nokia lumia smartphone.
will it  matter, of course it will.
these were essentially the big phone  makers like nokia, motorola, etc.
the first two sms-enabled vending machines were installed in  finland twelve years ago, and soon thereafter the first sms-enabled parking was  launched in norway.
i am not in any way suggesting that all was perfect at nokia  when elop took over.
vodafone had earlier launched some cheap featurephones for  emerging world markets like india.
nokia owns the smartphone os platform that reaches the widest  audience in 17 out of the 20 biggest countries on the planet.
if  microsoft windows was such a magical synergy tool, why is the consumer-oriented  iphone outselling the windows smartphones in the us enterprise/corporate space,  after a decade of windows mobile / windows phone sales by microsoft and its  partners.
i wrote about it before the iphone was ever sold, promising the iphone would accomplish this to the industry.
the mechanics of expert handling of a  guitar or violin or piano is no longer as critical for the creation of music.
and  nokia is also a smartphone maker - the biggest in the industry, with the  best-selling smartphone os as well.
this was not a make-or-break critical product launch.
so this is by every measure the single biggest product launch in the history of mobile phones.
that is not a third ecosystem in anyone's book.
we heard earlier this year that the uk youth's number one desired phone is not the iphone, its the blackberry.
while nokia and  microsoft have been repeating the 20% numbers from those big analyst houses, as  recently as october of 2011, the reality is, that those numbers are not news in  october.
that might sound good.
for those pundits who obsess about the touch screen ui leadership - which apple clearly holds over any rivals in handsets - there are dozens of other issues of phone feature (and price) factors where nokia has mastered most, and is getting ever better at the touch screen too.
nokia invented the smartphone more than a decade ago.
we know from global consumer  surveys what people do on their phones, and what consumers look for when buying  smartphones.
hey, that was only half of the world of smartphone sales.
we need to become aware of what is around us.
android has been killing microsoft and palm, and damaging apple - while symbian (and blackberry) has been barely touched.
for 2011 it will be around 18% (maybe less).
and the lumia 800 doesn't offer a replacable battery.
if you  thought the nokia of the past was 'obsolete' for your market, whether that was  the usa or europe or asia-pacific or wherever, this lumia line offers you  nothing that is better but on ten separate factors, lumia is now worse than  what nokia was last year.
if elop is only an average manager, he will achieve 6.4 million in his sleep.
so very many of the stories we discuss here, will invariably  touch upon nokia, or feature nokia.
nokia has easily the production capacity and the world's largest  phone sales network and distribution system including the ability to air ship a  million phones a day, every day, anywhere it needs to.
or polishing shit is still shit.
i do know nokia pretty well, as a former nokia executive and having  followed it actively through my independent consulting career this past decade,  and regularly discussing nokia in my books and on this blog (i was just quoted  about nokia in the financial times this week for example).
creating  killer applications in 3g alan's other book ajit jaokar, alan moore, brian jenkins, jouko ahvenainen:
he looked you in the eye and lied, deliberately.
this  would not have happened if the phone and its software was designed by adults.
but first, remember that 'services' (like zune) came in at  7th most relevant point when deciding, in the industrialized world and 5th in  the emerging world.
nokia's n9 and n950 on the meego os, with its radical swype method of  input, is a major step.
so for example the tns global survey of 34,000 mobile phone owners worldwide on their purchase priorities with mobile phones, the rankings are different.
no, the mp3 players  will not be networked on the cellular network (mostly.
that is why even when nokia had  problems like the failed flagship smartphone n97, nokia overall global sales  did not suffer severely.
both are obviously inducted in the hockey hall of fame..).
the currency fluctuations will impact quite heavily.
the bluetooth on the lumia 800 won't support many types of file transfers, it did on past nokias and does today on rival phones.
he will be seen to have saved symbian and nokia in the process..
the above chart is indicative and approximate, rounded off to the nearest one billion dollars.
whatever we think of the smartphone buyer in the world,  the target customer for potentially 4 out of 5 buyers of smartphones, the  consumers, their number 1 interest is sms text messaging.
so next lets connect our  pets.
this for the brand that had highest loyalty in britain at the time!
i am thinking of former vice president  dick cheney and 'we know where the weapons of mass destruction are'.
and then if you need to move your  banking services to a newer phone, you can do so simply by inserting the sim  card to your new phone.
microsoft and nokia did full e-series and microsoft office suite and other microsoft software business/enterprise integration in... 2009.
and it utterly dominates this space worldwide.
now it has become the little brother in the big picture.
yes, they don't have tv sets.
several better cameraphones have it now.
and blackberry had its dramatic market failure in this period.
of the big media industries like print, broadcast and the related advertising industries, their migration into mobile has only started and is in the low single digits in percent of total revenues or total content delivered.
reason 13 -  hostile carrier relations with microsoft nokia was known to be  friendly to carriers if bureaucratic and uncompromising.
kirill zelenski on the truth.
but nokia did not abandon the new world like sony abandoned the musicplayer market to apple's ipod.
but the application developers' interest in  making apps is totally dependent on their belief that its worth their while.
he made a widely criticized decision to change nokia's naming, to go to pure numbering in its names (not nokia n9 or e7 or x7, but just nokia 500 etc).
but even worse, is that microsoft never used to have good carrier relationships.
the first nokia flagship smartphone to include the  n-gage gaming engine was the n82.
what is their  proportion?
and the n8 was that cameraphone used  to shoot a full-length motion picture that had a commercial release.
the  second biggest smartphone maker brand in china was motorola and nokia was ..
and you  think, ok, but it does drive well, and at least it was designed by the iconic  sportscar superstar designers from italy.
most of the work mr elop will be doing is stuff we'd never even bother to write about on this blog.
the issues range from network coverage to service reliability to network technology to service offering and pricing etc.
but most of what makes a  modern mobile phone valuable to consumers is not the pda or camera or music  abilities of it.
$ 66 b ( $ 67 b) . . .
now this week we heard  that there won't be any android smartphones on the vodafone brand.
or take television and radio, the total broadcast industry - and multiply it by 15.
secondly, i promised a review of major smartphone player strategies after the half-year results came in.
92 3 (1) . . . . . .
the microsoft  loyalty and brand was equally demolished with the catastrophic crash of its  market from 10% in the us market in 2009 to 5% in 2010 to under about 1% today  (when adding both windows mobile and windows phone).
andnow he sold nokia's advertising arm.
whereas in the emerging world, for smartphone purchases,  consumers will look at the operator/carrier as the third most important issue -  where nokia's reputation has suffered with elop and lumia; and its partnering  with microsoft has only made matters worse.
so in february of 2010 i went through the trouble of calculating out the pure mobile revenues of all the biggest players in mobile andpublished the world's first global listing of the 25 largest companies, when ranked only by their mobile revenues.
and i should mention the app stores.
(most of the  smartphone rivals are complaining bitterly of how expensive the smartphone
the lumia  including lumia 710 was designed by affluent american college kids.
before search engines, it was not practical to try to find 'all available information' on a given topic, unless you lived next door to a major library like the us library of congress and were a wiz at using the library's card catalog system - and then spend hours digging through book indexes and tables of content.
$  12 b ( $ 11 b )  . .
it need not be better or even as good as the iphone.
this issue is a total non-issue - for end-user consumers when buying the smartphone.
please do read the specific part in the full article, before commenting.
more likely, today consumers have so many ways to get music by sideloading and on free music services, that it won't matter one iota.
nokia is one of the giants of that business too, which is not well  known, as it is a b2b (business to business) type of enterprise.
blackberry is  collapsing in consumer sales in the usa, yes, that is true (but growing  internationally) but the enterprises are replacing their smartphones rather  loyally, berry by berry.
reason 1 - messaging madness
if you do find experts claiming some benefits for lumia, then compare those to this list of 13 and see if the evidence suggests one is more relevant than another.
as individuals or organisations we need to demonstrate  the ability to face the future openly; we have to replace fear of the unknown  with curiosity.
we just  heard from morgan stanley that they project nokia and microsoft to sell 37  million lumia phones this year 2012 and 64 million lumia smartphones next year  2013.
$ 26 b ( $ 22 b) . . . .
at&t will  sell the lumia 900 as an exclusive.
the world's  first person-to-person sms text message was sent in finland in 1993 on the  radiolinja gsm network from one nokia phone to another, by a nokia employee  riku pihkonen.
he could decide which countries and which carriers would  be offered the lumia.
south korea was  the first country to make 'cards' out of credit cards optional - all credit  card services are automatically enabled onto your mobile phone (instantly when  the credit is approved), and if you want, a free plastic traditional credit  card can be mailed in a few days also to your home address - if you so desire.
the lumia series is doomed to fail.
these are all  industries whose size is above 200 billion dollars annually - ie each is bigger  than the total global handset business including smartphones and dumbphones and  all phone based accessories like spare batteries and phone covers and memory  cards etc (combined, is worth about 160 billion dollars in total - a small  fraction of the 1.1 trillion dollar mobile telecoms industry where the majority  of the revenues come from mobile services like voice, sms and premium mobile  data services).
their very first strategic partner and launch customer for microsoft's first  smartphones, uk based sendo was driven to bankruptcy after lengthy court cases  with the evil empire.
in reality, the top of the market is not the growth opportunity in smarpthones - all major analysts say, time and again, that the growth opportunity in smartphones is in the bottom of the price range, as smartphones go mainstream to the mass market consumers.
all  consumer reviews by the tech press say that the lumia 800 fails head-to-head  against the iphone 4s or samsung galaxy etc, and the lumia 900  doesn't bring anything better on its look and feel.
look at apple, a computer maker, who decided to do its music player (ipod) on a phone as the original featurephone iphone 2g, and then decided to make it a full 'pocket computer' by the second release of the iphone 3g as a real smartphone in 2008.
the planet did not suddenly have a huge rise in its wealth in the past two years (arguably, we've suffered globally with the economic crash).
and while some companies are often in the news, like say microsoft, a big giant in the it industry, by its mobile revenues, microsoft isn't even close to entering the chart.
some of that was due to the global economic downturn (remember, 3  of its rivals in the big 5 handset makers reported losses in their handset  business during this economic crisis - nokia never did.
- deficient  operating system the windows phone 7 and 7.5 operating systems do  look cool and sexy when shown on stage or briefly demo'ed.
they were used on par with mobile  internet and far above apps.
motorola was so bad at it, that for about two years, for every one customer  they convinced to 'upgrade' to a smartphone, they lost literally nine other  previous motorola customers of dumbphones to either other branded dumbphones,  or the new pure smartphone makers like apple, rim and htc.
the camera is the second most used feature.
similarly hp, which bought palm (but has since discontinued that business) didn't make it to the top 25.
but sufficient to say that clearly more than half of consumer uses of telling time - and of the wake-up alarm - is now from the mobile phone.
that fm radio that you laughed at in the features section many thousand words ago in this story?
forbes reasons are quite silly, actually
nokia has the carrier relationships to turn a good phone into a big hit and the n8 seems to be very well poised to do well.
t-mobile will sell the lumia 710 but not the 800 or 900.
even though nokia designed three very similar spec smartphones (and nokia has tons of qwerty phones on symbian, s40 and meego operating systems).
secondly, i  promised a review of major smartphone player strategies after the half-year  results came in.
they do have mobile phones but ones that  cost under 50 dollars, often as cheap as 20 dollars new.
the contest for convergence for the 5 trillion dollar trophy.
this is a communication problem.
which file standards does  the media player support.
symbian nigeria . . . . . . . .
in rough terms the installed base of s40 currently is more than 700 million, so when added together, symbian and s40 give nokia an addressable market potential of 1 billion mobile phone users worldwide.
then forbes says that zune is a reason why windows phone will succeed.
if you buy the 2011 edition now, you will  receive both almanacs for the price of one.
microsoft used its scale to crush apple, even where mac was always better.
microsoft has  been able to peddle thesheer impossibility of a 'third ecosystem' - which even  microsoft loyalists would not have believed considering how ridiculous are  ballmer-oriented claims about microsoft's future - but they suddenly believed  it, when the nokia ceo said the same.
and blackberry had its dramatic market failure in  this period.
the microsoft loyalty and brand was equally demolished with the catastrophic crash of its market from 10% in the us market in 2009 to 5% in 2010 to under about 1% today (when adding both windows mobile and windows phone).
no part of the car has ever seen the country of forza ferrari!
i was just in toronto at  the mobile think tank this week and learned from professor matrix of queens  university, that 70% of canadian college students use a blackberry.
the world has under 1  billion automobiles!
elop doubled down and made the most  costly management communciation fiasco in the economic history of mankind and  devastated nokia's brand and market demand.
google believes so strongly in mobile advertising, they bought admob.
but in music, mobile can cannibalize all digital music.
timo koola on the truth.
yes, so the biggest usable number we can start with, is the human population.
at only 9.99 euros, the unrestricted pdf based ebook is formated for the smartphone screen so you can have the stats in your pocket every day.
when we individually and  collectively live in an age of uncertainty, we must all become masters of  managing uncertainty.
there is very much more in the article including aspects that are particular to  the emerging world (where half of all smartphones are now sold) and issues to  such matters as build quality - microsoft and nokia have already admitted to  two production quality problems with lumia.
the verdict i have given you my 13 reasons why lumia is currently failing and will continue to fail.
welcome stephen and we wish you the very best of luck from here at the communities dominate blog - both alan moore and i have been regular advisors to nokia in the past, and we know you will be joining a great team of professional senior managers who take things strategically and with focus, yet constantly observing this industry - mobile - to ensure nokia understands how the landscape is evolving.
now last year in february that all was suddenly sunk, with the elop effect.
from february 2011 to today, nokia has set a world record in destroying its market share.
[3] participatory cultures and tools [4] openness [5] craftsmanship [6] epic – designing for transformation
(and lets ignore voice  calls).
google just told us last year that google makes 2.5 billion dollars of advertising revenues out of its mobile advertising arm.
so what else do we do?
nokia had the best  carrier relationships in the world.
nokia ceo stephen elop is once again acting in the best interests of  microsoft, and against the best interests of nokia.
but we are in transition from a linear world to a non-linear world, the old rules no longer apply, we see a world incresingly more complex and this presents real challenges.
the n97 was a rare nokia stumble, but that pain is just about over.
gartner told us that in 2009 there were 73 million people who used a mobile phone to make a payment.
today nokia's carrier relationships are the worst they have ever been.
nokia  voluntarily abandons nearly half of the addressable market and instead - forces, forces all lumias to be compared to iphones (rather  than compared to blackberries).
the nokia symbian platform, one of several nokia technical platforms, and the one most suited for mobile advertising today, is not just the world's biggest smartphone operating system by installed base - andadvertisers will equate installed base with 'audience' rather than new sales, where last year elop's mis-management of nokia smarpthones saw symbian sales fall behind google's android and apple's iphone ios.
stephen elop thats who.
i don't know if other smartphones support this  function yet but obviously nokia has brought it to newer phones like the e7.
i can't 'prove' prove it to you, but it is very widely accepted by experts in the industry, that nokia's resale channel froze in february and nokia products were removed from displays etc.
compare to nokia's biggest rival (who is not apple's iphone, it is obviously samsung).
so let me quickly comment on the other five reasons.
not success by any definition.
take airline seats today.
the reviews of wp7 apps say rather consistently that they are poor versions of their iphone and android masters, and further, that they do not take advantage of wp7's abilities.
it is true that the dumbphone  market is shifting to smartphones - they expect half of all new smartphones  sold in the usa next year to be smartphones - that is happening in western  europe now, and has already happened in some of the most advanced markets of  the world - like my new home country of hong kong where half of all phones  already are smartphones today.
i don't have a good measure for wristwatches and alarm clocks.
i mentioned the sms crippling text.
the numbers are very clear.
we know there emerged a sales boycott.
nokia had very accurately foreseen the future markets as they emerged,  and provided suitable, low-cost smartphones for those markets and utterly  dominated the emerging world.
in q2 of  2009 windows smartphones in the usa had 9.7% market share according to gartner.
even the inventor of sms, matti makkonen finished his career at nokia (he was my last mentor).
the bluetooth on the lumia 800 won't support many  types of file transfers, it did on past nokias and does today on rival phones.
but i want to end on the 'lesson' for this blog.
for the whole past decade, nokia was every single quarter as big as two of its next largest rivals combined, there were several quarters where nokia made more mobile phones than the next 4 biggest handset makers of the world - put together.
this 'flagship' phone seems like it was designed by total  amateurs who were somehow utterly ignorant of the vast competence nokia had  built over the past decade.
rather than achieve corporate sales successes for their  'strategic partnership' elop rather prepared his job transfer from microsoft to  become ceo of nokia the next year.
he claimed last year in his notorious burning platforms memo that nokia had fallen behind on this ecosystems war.
those are not my numbers, they are morgan stanley's numbers and they are  the first analyst house to dare to make a projection on the nokia-microsoft  partnership.
it just took 90%  of the market.
except that it wasn't.
the lumia 800 doesn't have a qr code reader installed.
even in the big growth stages of the android now, symbian has lost only a little, still selling more than 4 out of every 10 new smartphones this year - where microsoft's windows mobile and palm
reason 12 - hostile carrier relations with nokia
(at least when it comes to banking, most banks tend to operate regionally or nationally, with only a few global banking brands).
so let me give you the quick executive summary version here on the top.
and in 10 times out of 12, the carrier will not offer the lumia which the customer would want.
nokia has taken its customer base and walked it in front of a firing squad, and shot it dead.
how long is it worthwhile to try to fight for that ultra-cheap market and what  strategic moves if any, nokia may want to make in that space.
google ceo eric schmidt has been saying that for years already, and the new google strategy,'mobile
the first two sms-enabled vending machines were installed in finland twelve years ago, and soon thereafter the first sms-enabled parking was launched in norway.
but some  of it is no doubt historical cost reasons.
orange mobile, france * . . . . . .
and elop could plan carefully, organize everything  and make sure the most important product launch in nokia's history would be a  total success.
today all major pc makers have entered the smartphones battle and all say the future of the computer is the smartphone (something i have been saying for many years now).
someone prefers a mercedes benz c-series, another prefers a porsche 911.
it is perfectly possible that nokia and microsoft marketing have convinced a random customer that they do want the nokia lumia smartphone.
hard as in – numbers driven, with a high tempo for delivering the quarterly numbers.
but the guardian tech writer who bought a lumia 800 in the uk before christmas,was so fed up with it already after christmas when using it, he returned the smartphone - and wrote in one of britain's biggest newspapers that its what he did.
where is the  difference.
no exploding batteries at  nokia.
i have given you only 13  reasons why lumia will fail.
i am not saying nokia had somehow magically caught up with the iphone butthe fact is, nokia had a record christmas quarter in 2010, and then things were improving for 2011.
and, as the forces of disruption increases often the resistance of organisations under threat does not abate but intensifies, until flailing against this unknown or misunderstood enemy they exhaust themselves.
santa claus came for mr elop with freebie gifts
they can happily leave the small 'pro market'  to the specialists like nikon and canon.
even the superphones are featured in the stores even as few customers ever can  afford them.
but if elop does something this mad, at this time, then i do have to observe it.
it means we can then ask this question: how do we find the best possible solution to seemingly intractable problems, and be able to answer them?
but it will see more returns than its peers.
in some of the more affluent markets on the above list, most households do have tv sets like in china and russia.
but as this blog is a mobile industry blog, it does make sense  to put the big companies in context, especially across the operators, handset  makers and infrastructure providers.
so it would have been an easy selling attribute  for anyone trialling a lumia in a store.
ofcom's global survey just in november 2011 reported that sms was by far  most used service in europe and the usa, mobile web well below and apps further  down the list.
that is nokia excellence in  cameras.
thus they cannot sustain the number of players they have today.
and  again, doing it profitably.
why is lumia not offering a qwerty variant!
but also, that there were some good reasons as well, and that i could well see why the shareholders felt that was needed.
nokia offers both of  course as makes sense in this market.
reason 10 - regressing on features and services.
we have seen it time and again.
in africa, literally, for about half of the population, the first radio they ever personally owned, is the one that comes on the nokia phone.
so its pretty phoney by forbes to add this as a reason why windows phone will 'make a big splash' in the smartphones market this year.
i  don't see xbox gaming to be a 'game changer' haha.
this phenomenon continues and reports trickle in from many countries that nokia smartphones are conspicuous in their absense from store shelves and inventories.
there  are few things that were long in the pipeline, that will now come as gifts to  the new ceo.
but branding is far more than the name of the brand.
this is a  brand which is not loved.
because of it, nokia now is in deep trouble and has to try to sell assets  just to remain alive.
luckily elop has seen the error of his way and now  starting with the lumia 710
at that time, there were far less than 10 million android smartphones in use worldwide.
can you spell 500,000 units?)
nokia failed the opportunity to do something apple doesn't.
but lumia has neither.
and we know the decorations are not genuine nokia - the operating system and apps (the paint job).
but first, remember that 'services' (like zune) came in at 7th most relevant point when deciding, in the industrialized world and 5th in the emerging world.
yes, obviously the lumia will stand out in the crowd, but it will soon mean  that lumia owners will be ashamed to show their phones.
this is due to the voices of fear, cynicism and prejudice.
if they had aggressively pursued the  mobile market, either through a premium cameraphone or a specialist role in the  ecosystem or in partnership - any of the big giants of cameras could have a  major role in the mobile industry today.
this  is a very hard thing to do and few do it well -lego being an example of the few .
they have  zero concept of what a farmer in nigeria needs or a lumberjack in brazil or a  fisherman in the philippines.
the 'talent scout' at recording companies (the big labels) is a job that is disappearing.
even better than that, nokia's operating system for smartphones, symbian, is so huge, it powers half of all smartphones in use on the planet.
what of navteq, of nokia  money, or mobile avertising, the ovi store, etc etc etc.
in britain lumia didnt make it into the top 10 bestselling smarpthones even for the december month.
major mobile industry players from carriers/operators like vodafone and telefonica to equipment makers like ericsson and alcatel-lucent offer solutions in the mobile ad space.
that all died with the elop  effect.
china unicom, china  . . . . . . . .
it seems by early opinions to be a  long-overdue hit flagship for nokia.
he is available for consulting,  speaking engagements and as expert witness, please write to tomi (at)  tomiahonen (dot) com recent posts the truth.
secondly, remember that blackberry owns roughly speaking half of that.
we will easily double from today's 5 billion during this next decade, easily!
some batteries draw down too fast, others don't recharge properly and sometimes the problem blocks the whole battery operation.
telenor mobil, norway * . . . . . .
nokia is the world's most used technology brand (and most used brand, period).
even blackberry has been seeing declines in market share.
the only thing genuine ferrari is the badge, which they bolted onto this fake ferrari, and even that was not put on in italy.
advertising goes where the media audiences go.
that was a short-lived battle that was over in only 3 years.
i honestly do not know, but i would not be surprised, if there weren't many middle to senior managers who really should be moved on.
that is what the 37 million and 64  million numbers reflect.
then yes, the lumia 900 and lumia 800 are good-looking smartphones,but not as good as the iphone 4s while being in the same price range.
but the migration  of money is very slow.
at&t wireless, usa  * . . . . . . .
so in the usa, on this lumia partnership, the conventional wisdom says that the microsoft brand will help restore nokia (on the brand).
cnn for example was promoting its symbian smartphone app worldwide on countless daily ads on all cnn channels.
now nokia's profits have shrunk to razor-thin.
the second biggest country by population is india.
i say boycott, you say tomato.
elop will have squandered the only chance  nokia had had, to try to shift platforms, and blasted what any opportunity may  have been left for lumia.
what of our plants at home?
the ovi store was nothing, nobody and nowhere in the usa and no doubt when elop flew every week from finland to his other home in seattle usa, he felt ovi was a failure.
here we have to go to the phone price pyramid.
or polishing shit  is still shit.
the hideously stripped nature of the feature set of  the lumia line is screaming for rejection.
rated the most influential expert in mobile by forbes in  december 2011, tomi speaks regularly at conferences doing about 20 public  speakerships annually.
i called it the ahonen index and as far as i've seen, nobody else has published a similar list - quite astonishing considering that mobile is the fastest-growing giant industry, ever.
what is the bestselling game?
maybe you will say 'surf the web'.
if nokia abandoned all that leadership, and surrendered to the whims of google, that would be a colossal mistake.
$ 20 b ( $ 11 b) . . . .
1.6 billion people live without electricity according to cnn in 2008, so if we take the average household size of 4 people per household globally, thats 400 million households without electricity.
so  you could shoot many hours of dvd quality video and then just swap your microsd  card and continue shooting.
the early windows versions were horrible up to windows 3.0 in 1990, when finally microsoft released an 'macintosh clone' that was good enough.
lumia 800 doesn't have tv out, that came to nokia flagships in the n93 in 2006 and many rivals have it.
and they are very happy to quote reputable analyst houses who promised windows phone with nokia will reach 20% market share or better in smartphones.
if there are 5.1  billion mobile phone subscribers on the planet - and the option is to be the  best-selling phone for that part which is 285 million of those - or the  remaining part which is 4.815 billion mobile phone users - nokia has focused  correctly.
the big music store chains started to  fail and go out of business.
the planet has a population of 7 billion who have 5.9 billion mobile phone accounts.
yes, we all play angry birds but a vast gaming  catalog of 'pure' platform games, rather than custom 'casual' mobile games?
if you really love your qwerty look, you won't even consider these lumias.
and elop himself admitted he miscalculated how badly nokia smartphone sales would collapse, and he also admitted surprise to the sudden massive losses that obviously resulted.
remember nokia was not a pc maker like apple or hp or lenovo now urgently trying to capture the shift from traditional pcs to smartphones.
not as good, but good enough.
and lets delve into the biggest news in mobile of  last week..)
nokia's 'obsolete' symbian is the biggest smartphone operating system in 17 out of the 20 largest countries on the planet by population.
he is a north american, he knows the way to talk to north  american press and analysts and investors - that is where most of nokia shares  are held.
no matter what the apple loyalists think of the iphone, it will never be a mass market phone.
i honestly am  not even googling his background now - i am sitting at a starbucks in toronto,  waiting for my next meeting appointment, and am drafting this article with a  nice tall cup of cappuchino.
then we have issues with poverty, with illiteracy (800 million people of reading age are illiterate worldwide - illiterates will not need a laptop surely, and probably won't have much need of more than one phone in most cases), with wars, famines, and refugees.
iphone came second and blackberry third.
the mechanics of expert handling of a guitar or violin or piano is no longer as critical for the creation of music.
the real top 13 reasons why nokia lumia and windows phone will fail, not  just in usa but across planet nokia was prominently featured at the ces show in the usa this week, the  biggest consumer electonics show of north america.
we know microsoft well and most of us use windows based pcs.
i have written another  long blog explaining why skype is the ultimate red flag to carriers/operators.
even if every one of them was now suddenly made 3g compatible with a mobile  data subscription, in ten years of sales we'd only hit 4 billion more connected  devices.
and new digital formats emerged like the ringing tone and ringback tones, which now deliver a third of the total global consumer spending on music worldwide.
nokia could have  given us great feel on the mechanics - where nokia excels far above all other  handset makers.
there was once a need for staffs of receptionists to answer phones, but voice mail took most of those jobs.
it is a cheap  copycat of the iphone style touch screen input and lumia abandons natural nokia  strengths while showing no competitive advantages.
digital  convergence changed music creation - the sampling of instruments popularized by  the early 'synthesizer' music of the 1970s and 1980s has made it easier for an  artist to 'master' multiple instruments.
so the touch screen input is no  better than any rivals, and is worse than the best.
ofcom's global survey just in november 2011 reported that sms was by far most used service in europe and the usa, mobile web well below and apps further down the list.
nokia ceo stephen elop himself has said that the war in mobile today is one of ecosystems, not of mere handsets or their software.
i was just in toronto at the mobile think tank this week and learned from professor matrix of queens university, that 70% of canadian college students use a blackberry.
elop's 'strategy' is totally not in nokia's best interest.
and here is the  relevant point - the two major analyst house projections for microsoft windows  phone with nokia partnership, were published before nokia and microsoft q1  financial performance numbers were released.
i think this suggests the  times are so bad, that we will still see more casualties this year.
it meant that previous global giants of other industries had decided to enter the mobile space, like computer makers such as apple and dell, like internet giants like google and yahoo, like mobile operators/carriers like vodafone and hutchison, and softwre maker giant microsoft etc.
and lets start  where most sensible marketers start, not from the product but from the  consumer.
that was  the best market share of any smartphone maker in britain.
the same happened in fixed-mobile convergence.
that is what lenovo wants now, as they launched their lephone  and sold 100,000 units in the first quarter.
and for the tagging devices to be recovered at the saw mill, and re-used.
in fact, the future of the internet is mobile.
where is the developer attention going to go.
nokia sells more  s40 based featurephones, which use the proprietary s40 operating system (not  part of symbian) but which could be described as 'smartphone lite' - just like  symbian, s40 does allow full internet use, allows application downloads and the  use of the nokia (ex ovi) store for content, apps and services.
lets add in a laptop per  person.
andnow elop wants to cause all that  confusion by discontinuing the ovi store brand.
i would be very confident in believing that at least the n8 will not be seen as a failure in its early reviews the way the n97 was received.
one nokia executive claimed the youth were growing tired of the iphone.
the competition is so tight that competitors are dropping like flies.
it will be a big battle for this decade and for the banking and credit cards, that will last well into the next decade, but the convergence is inevitable.
$ 16 b ( $ 16 b) . . . .
some premium ipods  probably will offer the connectivity but even those, mostly will not connect to  the cellular, and will rather connect via wifi).
and then you find out, the car was designed by the tractor factory designers from zetor in russia.
please do read the specific part in the full article,  before commenting.
and where once nokia  mobile phones was a young person's job, today those former young graduates are  middle-aged, and have seen the salaries grow and perhaps the hunger of wanting  to become the biggest phone maker in the world has dimmed in their eyes.
the term internet exploder came more as mocking windows crashes than ie the browser crashing.
why is nokia lumia not on every network in  every country?
now last year in  february that all was suddenly sunk, with the elop effect.
and for apple-watchers, not only has 'apple iphone' jumped up massively on the list, apple only making smartphones is almost as big as nokia with smartphones, dumbphones and the mobile side of nokia's networking business, combined.
people at nokia talked about a multimedia mobile computer, but it couldn’t look beyond those 12 keys.
but the timing is close enough, that any 'revival' by nokia can be seen mirroring a decline by apple - and from now forward, it will be credited to the new ceo, even though he actually had nothing to do with that.
like they say in africa, mobile is not the 7th mass medium, its not the first mass medium; it is the only mass medium.
with ambiguity there are 5 key points, to be a little more expansive in no straight lines i write: in many ways ambiguity is the output of our current trilemma, but for that very reason it must also be a defining principle.
but the lumia 710 has a decidedly cheap look to it, very plasticky.
there are few things that were long in the pipeline, that will now come as gifts to the new ceo.
i do think that  the very superficial view to stephen elop's past suggest he could be a great  ceo for nokia.
so for a forest of a million trees that has been managed well, so it has an even balance of trees of all ages, then about 5% of the trees reach maturity any one year.
elop took that growth and torpedoed it, and for 2011 nokia global  market share collapsed from 29% in q4 of 2010 to about 12% in q4 of 2011 (we  will know when nokia releases its q4 results shortly).
successful hubris #wtf?
as this is a 'partly true' issue, the new ceo needs to tackle it on two sides - address the actual profitability rigorously, but also communicate it far more clearly - that nokia as a mass market consumer phone maker - should be compared to samsung, lg, sonyericsson and motorola (and zte) - and compared to any of those, nokia profits are very good.
by divesting nsn, nokia could focus more on its core business - related to handsets - and instantly get a jump on the profitability of the company.
i've told the story of modern forestry management, where trees are tagged with devices containing gps-gsm chips, for intelligent digital forest management.
he looks at global trends where the whole industry is in agreement - like now with mobile advertising.
what possible benefit can it deliver, while nokia's overall apps partnering is in turmoil with symbian and meego and maemo and windows phone and s40 and meltemi and whatnot.
in fact, it has severe shortcomings with no foldering, so the more you install  apps, the more cluttered and clumsy it becomes.
this is what smartphone owners in the usa, britain, spain, australia, germany, france, canada, singapore etc have said.
you learn perhaps a certain level of humility and willingness to compromise, if  you are bordering on the usa or russia/soviet union..
similar stats from market after market after market.
that is a way to produce exceptional  devices and services - for the luxury crowd, ie for a tight niche market - but  it is not the way to win the world.
i don't have a current one in the public domain but in 2009 morgan stanley published their price pyramid for mobile phones worldwide.
this is the best game on the 'amazing' app store.
how badly is the lumia 800 regressing !
except that in december  2013 the world will have about two billion smartphones in use (we will see  about 700 million sold this year alone).
a billion out of what, over 200,000 actual apps that exist in  the app store?
the  big prize 5 trillion dollars
so then lets move from  animals to plants.
the decision to sell the mobile advertising unit at nokia may have been  necessary because nokia is so badly generating a loss.
its a nice number yes, but what is the record-breaking achievement in the tiny sandbox called iphone, is trivial to the big world of mobile.
and when kodak finally did embrace digital in 1993 it did with hesitance that comes when companies are afraid to cannibalize their existing businesses for the sake of the future.
nokia had better glass on its optics, better sensors in the camera and better software for the pictures.
that was  the norm for dumbphone makers.
reason 13 - poisoned carrier relationships with microsoft.
in mobile, it is very small (as a percentage of the world).
first, lets be very clear, in the past decade we  did grow 10-fold in mobile (vs only 3-fold growth in the internet for example).
deutsche bank counted in 2009 that the total global market for  enterprise/business smartphones was 96 million handsets.
in terms of a viable 'mobile phone age'  population, what is the total population of 6.8 billion people today, can be  seen to be the viable mobile phone aged population a decade from now.
reason  7 - fails variety in model of handset
if one of its three lumia models is aimed to be an iphone 'killer' then make the other two as different and all three quite distinct from each other.
nokia didn't  need to pay one penny to apple.
microsoft feels it worthwhile to continue building its mobile advertising unit even as its reach across both windows mobile and windows phone smartphones, currently, is less than 30 million.
if elop could have left symbian alone, he would be now reaping the benefits of all the hard work nokia did over the years.
so yes, if you take nokia in december 2010, when nokia had 29% market share with symbian; and you add microsoft windows phone and windows mobile, who had a combined market share of 3%, and add those together, you get 32%.
the big music store chains started to fail and go out of business.
no: ex windows phone general manager at microsoft, charlie kindel, who acknowledges that microsoft had further angered the carriers in 2011.
or others insist on such a bizarre concept as a qwerty keyboard haha.
there also are many other industries that are seeing impact from mobile, but who are unlikely to be totally cannibalized by mobile.
81% of the total telecoms industry has migrated from fixed landlines (0% in 1978) to mobile when counting total subscribers.
like the book publishing industry is doing in japan for  example where mobile books outsell ebooks already.
all nokia smartphones have allowed users to install apps for all of the past decade.
but if you think about the real power and influence, real revenues, employees, etc, the above gives a good listing of who are the 25 biggest companies in mobile.
you get full registration and all details.
this against the  reported evidence that the iphone is breaking all of its sales record and on  every national chart for which i have seen statistics, the iphone 4s sits as  the bestselling phone for q4.
but please read the full analysis: lets start with consumers smartphones (invented by nokia four years before the blackberry)  first were enterprise/business tools.
his actionsmust be investigated as a breach of his fiduciary duty to nokia shareholders.
whereas in the emerging world, for smartphone purchases, consumers will look at the operator/carrier as the third most important issue - where nokia's reputation has suffered with elop and lumia; and its partnering with microsoft has only made matters worse.
the  short term allure of the tiles does provide some in-store excitement.
non-linear because it is for all of us socially, organisationally and economically ambiguous, confusing and worrying.
not just pruning unnecessary tech 'bloat' but literally going back in tech, to specs that were normal on nokia phones a year, two, even three years ago.
those were burned by the ceo last year.
the second most used funtion is the camera.
same for htc, the pure smartphone maker.
and then if you need to move your banking services to a newer phone, you can do so simply by inserting the sim card to your new phone.
the only way that is possible, is if smartphones have become  less expensive at the low end of the price point.
we know the market share crashed, sales revenues crashed and nokia profits vanished.
nonetheless, to sell a mobile advertising unit for a major handset maker goes totally against the grain, where rivals are investing more in advertising, not less.
it did not end the need for 'real musicians' ie playing at symphony orchestras etc, but it helped popularize music creation, by the masses, for the masses.
(at least when it comes to banking, most banks  tend to operate regionally or nationally, with only a few global banking  brands).
its not as good as apple did in  2007
and elop did not see it coming, and did not manage  his company wisely.
and you  can't ride the dead horse the only thing you can do, is get off the horse and  find some other way to proceed.
nonetheless, apple's iphone has an installed based (not cumulative shipments, but active users) of about 150 million smartphone users today.
$ 42 b ( $ 13 b) . . .
there is a new man now at the helm of nokia.
so the second most important thing customers ask for, which was a strong nokia asset, has been ruined not by manufacturing errors or market forces, by nokia's ceo with his idiotic communications last february.
now about 29% of all mobile phones sold worldwide were smartphones.
i have no idea how many  household pets there are, but i think its safe to say, the proportion of pets  is far less than the total number of households, even as some households may  have more than one pet.
mobile advertising (roughly) doubled in annual revenues in the year 2008 when the world economy crashed.
and most of nokia's stock price issues are related to either communication problems (not fundamental business and strategy) and of sectors of the market where nokia's global success is not in any way dependent - but which have recently received significant shareholder attention (us market, iphone, android).
nokia is not apple apple was a struggling pc maker who was finding it  difficult to sustain the proprietary macintosh operating system and its  expensive ecosystem.
if you want the lumia 710, you can only get it on t-mobile.
and yes, i am not  saying that.
compare to motorola which after the razr launched the  rokr and today motorola is no more, as the bankrupted and split-up handset  maker it was bought by google.
i have more important things to do, this blog is not a financial analysis blog.
a new context must be created; a new ‘common sense’ must emerge and propogate.
that all died with the elop effect.
and elop did not see it coming, and did not manage his company wisely.
that is  not a third ecosystem in anyone's book.
and on every one of those 13 areas, i evaluated lumia compared to where nokia (and microsoft) was before and where its rivals are now.
nokia was a juggernaut profit factory, selling the world's most widely adopted gadget (the mobile phone) utterly dominating that space and doing it profitably.
non-linear because it is for all of us  socially, organisationally and economically ambiguous, confusing and worrying.
he is a canadian -  a nationality that seems to gell particularly well with finns (maybe its all  that ice hockey - the greatest ever ice hockey player, the one they called 'the  greatest' ie wayne gretzky, a canadian, did after all get most of his points  scored, by setting up passes to a finn - jari kurri his long-time  scorer-sniper, who in turn is of course the greatest-ever finn to play ice  hockey.
the rivals did not come in 2011 with superphones with unbelievable features like say time travel or teleportation.
they pay very close attention to every player in the market.
windows phone had its peak sales a year ago of about 1.5 million smartphones in the quarter.
i am however, very well aware that the  banking and money industry moves very slowly, is very conservative.
that is a way to produce exceptional devices and services - for the luxury crowd, ie for a tight niche market - but it is not the way to win the world.
a genuine ferrari 2 seater sportscar.
from 2007, yahoo has been saying the same.
elop doubled down and made the most costly management communciation fiasco in the economic history of mankind and devastated nokia's brand and market demand.
windows is not a loved brand.
and, as the forces of disruption  increases often the resistance of organisations under threat does not abate but  intensifies, until flailing against this unknown or misunderstood enemy they  exhaust themselves.
then yes, most definitely, microsoft and nokia are in the game and can certainly be believed, that they can win this game.
(note this does not include the ultra-cheap dumbphones that  use the even simpler nokia s30 os, by which nokia's total reach was last year  estimated at about 1.7 billion)
here are the world's twenty largest countries by population, and the biggest smartphone os as of november as measured by statcounter: country . . .
he could decide how to price them and support the launch  with marketing.
a nokia cameraphone so good a professional movie maker made not an 'experimental film' for a film festival, or a short film, or amateur film, but a full commercial production movie for cinematic release.
with symbian at low-cost smatphones, nokia had conquerred the world.
that is a very tiny fraction.
apple can focus exclusively on its super-premium luxury smartphone, the iphone, releasing only one new model per year, putting all its effort to create genuine most-desirable masterpieces, much like a ferrari or porsche in cars.
who invented the  consumer-only smartphone?
when you look at the  lumia 900, it is like the designer of the lumia 800 fell asleep.
where is the difference.
nokia's market share of new  sales in the summer of 2010 in britain was 33% according to kantar.
the planet has only 6.8 billion people.
so it would have been an easy selling attribute for anyone trialling a lumia in a store.
yes, we all play angry birds but a vast gaming catalog of 'pure' platform games, rather than custom 'casual' mobile games?
with ambiguity there  are 5 key points, accept the uncertainties of an ambiguous world and become master of them.
so while yes, we can probably imagine 4 or 5 household gadgets today that could easily imagine being connected, and another couple likely to come - most obviously the home robot (south korea already has consumer-oriented household robot stores in major shopping malls).
but you do love the look  and feel of the ferrari and its bright red ferrari color, until you drive next  to another red ferrari, and obseve that your red is not the same red.
while all the silly hype globally in mobile is about apps - i have been  repeating and repeating and repeating, that it is a trivial - trivial - sized  non-business (today).
ios indonesia . . . . . .
same is true of the various other cameras-oriented industries like kodak and polaroid.
this has been reported only in anecdotal evidence and mostly in countries of the industrialized world, but nokia itself admitted in the quarterly results that its carriers and distribution channel had reduced inventory suddenly and to an unanticipatedly large degree.
at that time, we thought we were making the right decisions; but, with the benefit of hindsight, we now find ourselves years behind.
nokia wrote the book on sms.
well, all is not well.
but the first five months at nokia, when elop was in charge, saw the nokiasmartphone unit sales grow strongly,nokia smartphone sales revenues grow dramatically, andnokia profits at the smartphone unit jump at a nokia record level.
no matter what any expert may have said about how obsolete  symbian was or how horrible ovi store was or how bad the software was, the one  thing everybody agrees about nokia, its build quality has always - always -  been the best in the world.
then he decided to kill the ovi store brand.
the forecast was based on numbers, prior to the elop effect.
nokia profits have  been declining - as one might expect in a global economic downturn where many  'gold standard' corporations of impeccable credit ratings went bankrupt.
china  overtook the usa as the biggest individual country market for smartphones last  year.
this is the microsoft way.
there is so much to an fortune global 500 sized company ceo job description that i cannot even start to imagine.
and in no straight lines - we point to and demonstrate that there are excellent models for organisations today which would enable them to [1] transition [2] then transform into something that looks more appropriate and relevant for the world we live in today.
the reviews of wp7 apps say rather  consistently that they are poor versions of their iphone and android masters,  and further, that they do not take advantage of wp7's abilities.
if that feeling turned  to hostility, there is good chance it can be reversed.
nokia's n9 and n950 on the meego os, with its radical swype method of input, is a major step.
tns surveyed 34,000 mobile phone owners around the world and found that in the industrialized world (north america, europe, advanced asia-pacific) apps and the os do matter.
we have intelligent dog collars for hunting dogs for example, and the dogs-to-humans translator (bowlingual) which translates dog sounds to sms messages for humans of what the dog is trying to say.
both symbian and meego are open  source os's that conform to indsutry standards, and are supported by many  manufacturers.
last year at  this time, for q4, nokia introduced a new operating system version, symbian s^3  led by the new flagship smartphone n8.
do you believe that abandoning 33% market share -  when your unit sales grew 47% and your revenues grew and your profits grew so  explosively, for the last quarter nokia set a record in profit growth of its  handset unit -and replacing that with 8% market share only 3 years  later, with no growth but about flat sales, dramatically fallen  revenues and at best miniscule profits (probably continued losses).
apple's steve jobs believed so strongly in mobile advertising, he launched iad.
microsoft and nokia did full e-series and microsoft  office suite and other microsoft software business/enterprise integration in...  2009.
$ 48 b ( $ 47 b) . . .
but lenovo is at least taking a stab at this market, rather than how the  cameramakers hid their heads in the sand and tried to avoid the truth.
he comes from the pc and software side of the tech industry, a welcome infusion of new thinking to top management at nokia.
and the irony is, that microsoft decided torebrand its smartphone operating system when it switched away from windows mobile.
but most of what makes a modern mobile phone valuable to consumers is not the pda or camera or music abilities of it.
this is a whole new can of worms.
nokia's past flagship phones have proudly  done ar, but not these lumias.
the above picture is not the full picture for a nokia ecosystem.
china unicom, china . . . . . . . .
this trend was captured by the iphone but not invented by apple.
a cheap mp3 player won't gain from a 3g data connection - it would be a very sad rival to a musicphone but would add the monthly connection fee, while not offering telecoms connectivity (not being a phone).
so we will see the mettle of stephen elop, is he competent to run nokia.
you may freely quote and repeat the above chart.
lg's strategic partership with microsoft bled the company  profits into losses and lg ran to android.
he could choose which type of models nokia would create - as these are  truly new-from-the-ground-up smartphones, as they do not even use standard  nokia components.
when the global ad budget declined, and all other forms  of advertising shrunk in revenues, mobile advertising spending doubled  worldwide.
the 2010 flagship nokia smartphone, the n8, had a 12 mp camera and xenon flash.
while that may not technically be true, it will be a far better story for the nokia pr people to spin, than the past year of explaining why the n8 was again delayed...
massive profits in this  fast-moving and dynamic industry.
i think this suggests the times are so bad, that we will still see more casualties this year.
lets look at specific  consumer opinion.
but lets go to the facts again.
the digital convergence enables fantastic new services and abilites we never could have imagined.
the second biggest smartphone maker brand in china was motorola and nokia was .. 16 times bigger than its nearest rival.
this bodes very well for nokia and lumia as these  customers are coming in to replace their smartphones now in 2012.
what is best, is that the strategy and business basics at nokia are supremely sound.
16  times bigger than its nearest rival.
obvious major global trend apple decided to launch ios in the summer of 2009, at a time when the total global shipments of all ios based devices, iphones, ipads and ipod touch'es had not passed 50 million cumulatively (including devices no longer in use).
elop in his microsoft madness decided not to use nokia's finland based competence, he went to the usa to design his lumia phones.
the verdict i have given you my 13 reasons why lumia is currently failing and will  continue to fail.
at the edge, because that world, our world is being overwhelmed by a trilemma  of social, organisational and economic complexity.
and  this is all before we start to enable my flight itself with mobile check-in, or  the hotel does a mobile phone enabled locks to my hotel room etc.
both of those communication disasters independently ruined their respective companies, ratners and osborne.
again, nokia abandons what is its competitive advantage in a futile attemp to match the iphone.
elop would rather sell nokia assets, such as nokia's  patent portfolio, its factories, its staff, and now, its mobile advertising  unit - than allow the meego based n9 (and its sister, the n950) to be sold  worldwide!
but apple did what it always does, it made  existing things far better - so we see a new world (in touch screen interfaces)  after the iphone - and now also in tablet pcs too (kindle, ipad etc).
regardless, it is patently obvious thatmicrosoft  relationships with carriers were bad before and are getting worse with windows  phone.
lets say 2 utilities meters  per household, and we add another 3.4 billion connections and arrive at 43.0  billion.
how big will it be i think we have enough evidence from  early digital convergence to make some preliminary hypotheses.
and the (intelligent) vacuum cleaner?
the decision to sell the mobile advertising unit at nokia may have been necessary because nokia is so badly generating a loss.
what travel agent could  have specialized in hong kong to sao paulo travel for me today.
they say that windows phone would reach about 37 million unit sales this year and 64 million in 2013.
growth rate what of the  growth rate?
what  possible benefit can it deliver, while nokia's overall apps partnering is in  turmoil with symbian and meego and maemo and windows phone and s40 and meltemi  and whatnot.
again i am not a lumberjack but to me the clever way to use this technology is for some forest 'manager' to go tagging trees that need to be felled, with the intelligent gsm-gps devices.
the iphone or the galaxy.
that was a time-consuming long journey, it is not over, but it is now far along.
even if we add them all together, we arrive at 408 million devices per year.
if you want the lumia 900, you can only get it on at&t.
then forbes says that zune is a reason why windows phone will  succeed.
they have not been afraid to abandon  businesses that did not show promise for the future.
this, in the country that was about to become the world's biggest smartphone market.
the digital convergence brought powerful authoring and editing tools to any musician on their pc (and eventually increasingly also on their smartphone).
a survey of nearly 2,000 consumers of the uk mobile phone  market by right mobile phone found that the mobile phone brand is more  influential in deciding the next phone, than the carrier/operator brand.
first' is a clear indication of how seriously they are taking it.
six out of every ten smartphones  was a blackberry in tiny us businesses of less than 4 employees and 8 out of  ten smartphones was a blackberry in the biggest corporations of 1,000 employees  or more.
nokia market share in  smartphones has year after year, quarter after quarter, been better than its  market share in dumbphones.
zune might - might - duplicate the modest success of nokia music in  the best case.
but yes, even if you like this, this idea is pure speculation and cannot be implemented this year.
note, 90% ofamerican smartphone owners wish this more than anything else, and its something for example apple refuses to do with the iphone.
market size totally trumps fragmentation.
or others insist on  such a bizarre concept as a qwerty keyboard haha.
microsoft has already admitted that it is true, if anyone sends a specific  string sms text message (or fb message or tweet) to a microsoft phone based  smartphone - it will shut down the phone and when the phone is turned back on,  the messaging function is inoperable and the only fix is to wipe out everything
rather than nokia's own-designed mobile-optimised and smart os platforms,  symbian and meego, this fraudster uses an os that was never designed to any  degree by any nokia programmers.
in germany the same story, not even the top 10, not even for the december month.
in this nokia case, the gambler arrived with a million dollars and only has 100,000 to show for it.
this is a common pattern in the 'battle for the pocket' as i have chronicled from the pda vs smartphone battle to the musicphone vs ipod battle, etc.
and the one company  that was replaced from the 2010 list - russia's biggest mobile operator by  revenues, mts, was replaced by another bric company biggest operator - bharti  airtel of india.
most of that was not consumer-oriented  app store applications.
reason 5 - windows brand failure.
nokia has a vast library of videogames already formated for  the small screen.
or take television and radio, the total  broadcast industry - and multiply it by 15.
but nokia did not abandon the new world like sony abandoned the  musicplayer market to apple's ipod.
nokia had  better glass on its optics, better sensors in the camera and better software  for the pictures.
there is a third parallel trend in smartphones, from business phones to consumer phones.
this is a brand which is not loved.
we know the latest iteration of nokia's app store as ovi - incidentially the  world's third best-selling app store for those who care about the lives of ants  in the world of elephants.
one phone model costs 479 dollars, the next 529 dollars, another 499 dollars etc.
yes, even while switching to the newer os, and giving it more than a year for 'ramp up'microsoft lost again half of what customers remained.
early numbers say mobile advertising had again roughly doubled in 2011.
the windows phone input is not a radical improvement.
not from august or july or june.
kodak, minolta, polaroid, konica and so many  other major camera industry players had to abandon the camera related business  and shift to something else like professional imaging or scientific  instrumentation or photocopiers or whatever, or else go bankrupt - like  polaroid has done, twice already.
microsoft may do this  some day.
and  that is not even before we look at the apps.
then lets go radical and say mobile banking.
and the n8 was that cameraphone used to shoot a full-length motion picture that had a commercial release.
no electricity, no  clever digital household gadgets either.
or perhaps the customer has a collection of movies transferred to microsd memory cards, or whatever.
by q4 nokia had shrunk to nearly half the size of its strongest rival, apple's iphone.
publicis ceo maurice levy said that within a few  years "most of the music", "most of the information" and  "most of the advertising" will "transit through your cell  phone.
compare to nokia's biggest rival  (who is not apple's iphone, it is obviously samsung).
and when the price is about the same, on the look and feel, the lumia is the clear loser already in the store.
that was a lot of  smoke-and-mirrors.
forget about microsoft's bullying of its developers and partners and rivals,  and the prolonged feuds with the regulators on both sides of the atlantic.
all the new ceo needs to do, is  to communicate nokia's true performance more clearly than previous nokia  managers have done in the past.
the multitouch interface, on  capacitive touch screen, and apple's brilliant, logical and intuitive software  system, all worked.
ericsson mobil, sweden *  . . . . .
beyond the networks, looking at phones, while rim and  apple are pure smartphone makers (in the telecoms industry), nokia is not.
by deciding not  to make what is a competitive advantage at nokia.
he justsold nokia's mobile advertising unit on friday to a company previously known as matchbin and now renamed radiate media.
so ofcom is consistent with comscore that sms and  the camera come ahead of web and apps.
we've had full mobile payment solutions in the philippines for a decade already.
a cheap mp3 player won't gain from a 3g data connection - it  would be a very sad rival to a musicphone but would add the monthly connection  fee, while not offering telecoms connectivity (not being a phone).
so yes, the automobile industry is eager to get into  mobile too, many new cars feature sim card slots for example and the next  internet (after the internet has gone mobile) will be in cars.
tns  surveyed 34,000 mobile phone owners around the world and found that in the  industrialized world (north america, europe, advanced asia-pacific) apps and  the os do matter.
in 2010 nokia's  annual unit sales was 100 million smartphones which gave nokia a market share  in smartphones of: 33%.
it is not  rushing to mobile.
this is totally different input paradigm from  the touch screen, and its amazing for nokia to have been competitive in both  (touch and qwerty) at the same time.
so what happened to nokia sales in britain in 12 months.
note that while apple's iphone is a one-trick pony, and only sells a touch screen super smartphone - nokia keeps selling in similar quantities of touch screen smartphones across all its product lines.
what about the other 93% of us?
and for the tagging devices to be recovered at the saw mill, and  re-used.
nokia used to have the platinum-standard carrier  relationships a year ago.
but please lets be very clear, the problem at nokia is not  anything to do with its 'smartphones strategy' and mostly not even with its  smartphones execution, nor with the symbian os and the future strategy of the  smartphone os into meego.
so its nothing new,  and it was relatively easy to predict.
reason 4 - fails  on nokia brand
nokia had a massive competitive advantage that it simply refused to exploit.
yes, some geek like you and me may know of it, but even for us, its very very low in the order of what we want.
so its  pretty phoney by forbes to add this as a reason why windows phone will 'make a  big splash' in the smartphones market this year.
giving up power ain't easy, accepting and having the wisdom to see the world has changed - tough call.
note again how consistent the finding is with the above.
they can happily leave the small 'pro market' to the specialists like nikon and canon.
obviously the global utter collapse of nokia smartphone sales is  partially a symptom of this problem (and other problems).
nokia market share in smartphones has year after year, quarter after quarter, been better than its market share in dumbphones.
he comes from the pc and software side of the tech industry, a  welcome infusion of new thinking to top management at nokia.
stand-alone digital cameras sell 103 million per year (says morgan stanley in 2009).
well, that is not really the end of the world, as long as it  does have real ferrari components, except that when you look at the engine, you  find it came not from ferrari's engine factory.
bharti airtel, india . . .
this  at a time when mobile phones went from geeky-nerdy tech toys for business  execs, to must-have communication tools of the whole planet, from the youth to  the grandparents.
a new converged economic opportunity emerges within the digital convergence which will not be as big, as the separate industries would be separately.
and even its  os, the most advanced smartphone os in the world in 2007 when the iphone  launched - almost all upgrades to the iphone were actually 'bug fixes' to try  to make the ios as good as symbian - is now having a migration plan to a  totally new smartphone os, based on meego.
timex is the best-selling watch of all time, but never was a timex on the wrists of one out of every four people.
reason 5 - fails also on  windows brand microsoft is a strong brand.
and elop himself admitted he  miscalculated how badly nokia smartphone sales would collapse, and he also  admitted surprise to the sudden massive losses that obviously resulted.
we just heard from christmas electronics sales in the usa, that digital camera  sales and videocam sales had fallen catastrophically - because consumers were  switching their camera and video capture to their smartphones.
there was the famous dog who ate the nokia  phone.
but please lets be very clear, the problem at nokia is not anything to do with its 'smartphones strategy' and mostly not even with its smartphones execution, nor with the symbian os and the future strategy of the smartphone os into meego.
it was the golden age of cameras,  yet two of the big 4 failed to survive this enormous opportunity.
he actually hired an outside company, compal of taiwan, to manufacture the lumia smartphones!
while the replacement cycle for non-phone portable gadgets is longer than the replacement cycle for phones, certainly a significant fraction of the total cumulative sales of that number were replacement units, of better capability, sold to the same consumer.
nokia was the first company to boldly claim that the  future of phones was smartphones (a view still found controversial to many  today) and more brazenly, nokia was the first company to say a smartphone was a  computer (something ridiculed by the 'real' pc makers at the time, and only  very recently the pc makers - all 6 of the 6 biggest pc makers in fact - have  all found it to be true, that a modern smartphone is indeed a 'real' computer,  only a tiny and pocket-sized one).
a comprehensive statistical review of the  total mobile industry, in 171 pages, has 70 tables and charts, and fits on your  smartphone to carry in your pocket every day.
just in wireless, microsoft is the mobile death wish.
all those who say 'but the eco-system, tomi!'
81% of the total telecoms  industry has migrated from fixed landlines (0% in 1978) to mobile when counting  total subscribers.
these would by definition become very stagnant mature markets sustaining only a few players.
that to me, is what elop seems to be.
will  disrupt more than enable
all factors were totally in the control of elop.
timex is the best-selling watch of all time,  but never was a timex on the wrists of one out of every four people.
80 m . . . . . . . . .
this  phenomenon continues and reports trickle in from many countries that nokia  smartphones are conspicuous in their absense from store shelves and  inventories.
i do  like the bold predictions to suggest big growth, to counter those who peddle  the tired myth that we are somehow at saturation or near saturation in mobile.
what usually totally surprises us based readers is how strong nokia is outside of the usa.
the numbers are irrefutable, but the myth prevails that nokia is somehow 'losing' and specifically 'losing to the iphone'.
that will give us a nice boost to our count.
this is a hara-kiri by the ceo.
if the ecosystem is tiny, no matter how uniform it might be, if the  market size is too small, they won't care.
in 2000 when the cameraphone was  launched the world's biggest camera brands were  canon, konica, minolta  and nikon, all out of japan.
it just took 90% of the market.
this is a time to consider staff cuts (and not just in management, obviously)
that  was a time-consuming long journey, it is not over, but it is now far along.
this is similar to what apple did to the pc industry in 1984 when it released the macintosh, and all 'ibm compatible' pc makers had to adapt, where the primary change was the shift to windows, microsoft's version of attempting to copy what the macintosh offered.
congo . . . . . . . . .
yes, so the biggest usable number we can start  with, is the human population.
and that was of course also damaged massively by the elop  effect as in the above.
this would be a painful change, but nokia has done that many many times before - it once made paper.
vladkr on the truth.
nokia once made wifi equipment, broadband equipment, etc etc.
symbian supports such vital business  needs as.. folder (windows phone does not) and full multitasking and the  transfers of apps and files via bluetooth.
and the microsoft windows phone cavalry will not arrive in time to save nokia.
the lumia 800  doesn't read usb thumb drives and memory sticks.
elop himself has explicitly mentioned advertising as one of the key components of a mobile ecosystem.
the cd market shrunk sales year after year.
the one sim cards is compatible with all south korean banks and credit cards etc, so its just a question of a given bank or provider enabling their account onto your banking sim card.
that was the lesson we learned in the pc industry with windows vs macintosh.
so i don't foresee sim cards in  chicken or pigs or sheep..
so don't delude yourself  into thinking that lumia can somehow grow on the enterprise/corporate client  side, either in the usa or the rest of the world.
unlikely for all of the elderly.
at the end of the previous decade, the majority of music sales was through the sale of music cds.
so the cannibalization will eat into the size of the 'total pie' of the industries prior to convergence.
but balanced against  that shrinking of one pie, is the simultaneous growth of the total pie.
over 70% of smartphones in india over 80%  over the whole continent of africa in new smartphone sales in 2010 were nokia  branded.
the term internet  exploder came more as mocking windows crashes than ie the browser crashing.
after that all games need to be repurposed to the windows phone  format - thats no small feat - and the handsets need the gaming accelerators  etc for the hardware, etc.
that is awesome, isn't it.
it won every contest and comparison  against every rival everywhere, a superb cameraphone and videocam phone.
all nokia smartphones have allowed users to  install apps for all of the past decade.
whatever success or lack therof, you have seen of nokia in the  business/enterprise space, that will do worse on lumia and windows phone, not  better.
i don't see xbox gaming to be a 'game changer' haha.
these guys manufacture the wireless telecoms infrastructure, ie the thousands of 'base stations' and various antenna gear etc that is needed to build a billion-dollar cellular network.
microsoft could  have called the new os anything.
lets add in a laptop per person.
yet in south africa it is  normal to get your paycheck paid directly to your mobile account.
there even  have been exotic qwerty form factors like the butterfly keyboard.
compared to nokia's previous flagships and current rivals.
its r&d processes are slow, painfully slow compared to 'internet speed' rivals like say google.
the global ad industry top  management may be late to the mobile party, but they are dead serious about it  now.
what happened when giant mobile  phones makers motorola, sonyericsson, samsung and lg tried to shift their  'dumbphone' user base to smartphones in the past decade?
and you think, ok, but it does drive well, and at least it was designed by the iconic sportscar superstar designers from italy.
in those countries where the primary language is english.
from february 2011, the global carrier community revolted  against nokia and elop.
these  number have been reported in hundreds of stories and the vast majority of those  stories cheerfully reported that this was good news.
please do not say tomi hates  nokia.
reason 4 - nokia brand failure.
the short term allure of the tiles does provide some in-store excitement.
pocket music players including the ipod sell about 127 million units (same source for all).
so the telecoms industry itself is migrating to mobile, no surprise anymore this late in the game.
120 m . . . . . . . . .
if you were in the it industry in the early 1990s, and you were given the job of ceo of dell, the world's biggest pc maker - and with it came the job of toshiba, the world's biggest laptop pc maker - where the bulk of the revenues were in desktops (dell) and the future of pcs and more of the profits, was in laptops.
what nokia would have desperately needed out  of early lumia was low-cost smartphones now, to try to hold onto that market  share.
nokia invented the smartphone  more than a decade ago.
and that was of course also damaged massively by the elop effect as in the above.
if you have 20 plants in your home, and really want this level of technology to monitor each plant, yes, we could quickly pass 50 billion subscriptions.
the microsoft windows phone  is not a strong brand in smartphones and neither is nokia.
but these gadgets are relatively expensive, and there is no point in paying for  their cellular connectivity for the 20 to 30 year life that the tree spends  growing to full size before it is felled.
then came the internet, napster, social  networking, myspace and youtube.
amplifying reason 7 - failing model of handset
and recently the nokia shareholders have lost faith in nokia, comparing nokia's flagship model only, rather unfairly, to the apple iphone, and then concluding that nokia has somehow 'lost it'.
so that was consumers.
these would by definition become very stagnant mature markets sustaining  only a few players.
but if you do love the pure slab tablet style pure touch screen smartphone.
i also refuted each of the 5 reasons forbes felt that  windows phone would win.
suddenly  in relation to the new technologies, the old habits and regulations become  obstacles, the old services and infrastructures are found wanting, the old  organisations and institutions inadequate.
and most of nokia's stock price issues are  related to either communication problems (not fundamental business and  strategy) and of sectors of the market where nokia's global success is not in  any way dependent - but which have recently received significant shareholder  attention (us market, iphone, android).
the differences are nuances.
the digital convergence enables fantastic new services and abilites we  never could have imagined.
if you seriously think that there is a trend to apps in the phone business, then yes, nokia saw it long before the current hysteria, and had built its app offering and business systematically.
it would still not be as thorough as any google search today, and  it would take years to learn the skills and days of research in the library.
but one of the preferred  solutions is what for example was deployed in south korea, where on the phone  you have one sim card for your telecoms needs, and a banking-specific sim card  for all your money needs including banking, payments, credit cards, loyalty  cards etc.
so it was overkill on many levels.
one mobile phone subscription, certainly.
microsoft will also be selling the ads irrespective of nokia's own brand.
they still spend about 30 billion dollars on it annually, only the  traditional music publishing industry is getting an ever smaller slice of that.
the mobile  opportunity developed new abilities beyond convergence, starting from sms and  ringing tones more than a decade ago to augmented reality today.
he finds a genuine nokia asset where nokia was years ahead of the rivals - like now with mobile advertising - and rather than fix that unit's execution to deliver massive profits for nokia, he prefers to sell it.
nokia's own music service!
fragmentation is relevant to application developers and other partners, not to end-users.
the nokia share price was not falling in february - the stock market liked elop's first five months of nokia leadership so much, that the share price had climbed 11% - a very strong growth in a five month period for the new ceo, when the previous three years had seen a 50% drop in nokia share price.
he is not just a microsoft guy, he was previously with several other it companies based in the usa.
not a strategy problem and not an execution problem.
its flagship phone is not seen as good enough to go against the iphone.
it is well along, and the latest iteration  of the symbian os is said to be far better at the touch screen parts.
in countries where the average person has no  hope of ever owning a car, the mobile phone is the nearest thing to a true  status symbol.
i am not claiming all  was hunky dory at nokia prior to elop.
microsoft has  good brands such as xbox and office suite but its windows brand is weak and in  mobile, it is poisonous.
cloudtalk surveyed us smartphone  owners in july and found 71% used sms and only 40% used the mobile web (they  didn't ask about apps).
similarly pocketable stand-alone gaming  devices sell 48 million units.
but the really weird part is, that nokia is pretty well poised to outperform its other big 5 handset maker rivals into the foreseeable future.
only 1.2 billion people live in the  industrialized world and all of the above only related to what is called 'the  west'.
last quarter we have data for, q3, windows phone sales had fallen to about 500,000 units worldwide.
morgan stanley found 2% of the phones sold to be premium smartphones; 11% to be other smartphones and the remaining 87% to be 'featurephones' ie non-smartphones or 'dumbphones'.
yes, obviously the lumia will stand out in the crowd, but it will soon mean that lumia owners will be ashamed to show their phones.
reason 8 - fails smartphone apps and app store
apple's sudden decline comes also at optimal timing for  the new ceo of nokia.
nokia partnered  with german camera optics specialists carl zeiss, and from the early n-series  on, nokia had far and away the best cameraphones in that part of the planet  where 98% of its population lives (japan and south korea have exceptionally  advanced domestic mobile phone markets).
so, in a perfect world, nokia could sell 3  handsets on four networks ie 12 variations for the consumer.
that does beg the question: is this feasible.
so for a forest of a million trees that has been managed well, so it  has an even balance of trees of all ages, then about 5% of the trees reach  maturity any one year.
and here again, nokia has the biggest production capacity.
at the edge, because that world, our world is being overwhelmed by a trilemma of social, organisational and economic complexity.
you want paid downloads to  mobile?
but while tech analysts marvel at the iphone (and androids now), the touch screen is not the only 'preferred' form factor, nor the 'decisive' purchase criterion.
the handset industry is different from the pc industry or home electronics, in that the carriers/operators decide which phone succeeds and which fails (witness the short-lived microsoft kin).
microsoft got into mobile advertising years ago with the purchase of screentonic.
and the big corporate/enterprise clients they landed in the next years?
lets try to be realistic when giving guidance about the near future.
rather than achieve corporate sales successes for their 'strategic partnership' elop rather prepared his job transfer from microsoft to become ceo of nokia the next year.
ericsson mobil, sweden * . . . . .
and this shift is  far more price-sensitive than the enterprise/corporate phones market, so  super-premium prices 'superphones' like the iphone 4 or samsung galaxy or  blackberry torch will be mostly out of reach to the true mass market consumer  segment.
it did not surprise any real experts of the mobile industry, many of us said days after elop announced hismad microsoft strategy last february, that this would be the result, like i did on this blog, correctly forecasting that nokia's market share would crash to 12% by the end of the year, and nokia's strongly growing profits in its smartphone unit would reverse into loss-making, and the damage to all of nokia would be so severe, that all of nokia would generate a loss by the end of the year.
current market leader samsung note has 5.3 inch screen.
symbian turkey . . . . . . . .
nokia had secured 'carrier billing'  relationships with over 100 carriers worldwide for ovi (no other rival app  store had even one quarter that level - carrier billing means one-click  payments that get charged directly off your phone bill or prepaid account.
and when you think about it, if google's android has  about 45% and apple's iphone between 15% and 20%, then if nokia and microsoft  can get 20% - game on.
nokia invented the smartphone and has  launched or pioneered all of the four major trends in smartphones.
samsung does just on its galaxy series the obvious iphone clone basic slab touch screen versions of almost exactly iphone physical size; and then offers the galaxy indulge with the qwerty slider; the galaxy beam with the pico projector; and the galaxy note with its gigantic screen.
this forecast by morgan stanley is quite optimistic.
zune mobile, internet smartphoner.
taking a book from donald rumsfeld they are trying to  convince investors that lumias will be greeted as liberators.
$ 20 b ( $ 11 b)  . . . .
yet apple felt mobile advertising was that important to the apple iphone and ios ecosystem.
in a very rough term, we can  expect that the mobile phone subscription penetration rate globally will pass  about 120% human population per capita during this decade (at least).
the pure smarpthone maker htc sits just out of the chart and is likely to enter it next year.
web browser is far lower, at 33% for europeans and 39% for americans.
it seems like it was deliberately designed to fail in the market.
so the customers know nokia models and their specs.
just about everything he does, and everything he says, turns out to be untrue,  often the opposite seems to come true.
but in all  honesty, this won't happen to all people on the planet (kids for example) and  definitely won't happen in one decade.
but nokia's symbian has currently over 275 million users worldwide.
this selling of the mobile advertising unit is how nokia's new ceo indicates"accountability and leadership".
that the smartphone os will decide.
that was the best market share of any smartphone maker in britain.
and the first evidence is already out.
[3] how do organisations learn to design for a more open  world - which will be necessary for survival?
enter stephen elop, from microsoft, to take the reigns as nokia's new ceo.
i am not suggesting the carriers/operators loved nokia - nokia was too big and powerful to be loved.
so, earlier this week, we had the very first major  industry analyst house issue a fresh, post elop effect, forecast for nokia and  microsoft windows phone.
ok lets toss in money
and its not just that, very big global partners have been cross-promoting the ovi store.
yes, there are cows that are called to milk via an old mobile phone or beeper hanging on their neck, and when the cow hears the arrival of sms (or the ringing of a phone call - no danger, the cow won't answer so there won't be billable calling traffic to the farmer) the cow knows to come home to be milked.
i am not claiming all was hunky dory at nokia prior to elop.
that means that the world would match roughly what is normal in europe today.
it too  made windows mobile smartphones and it also did not see a fall, on the  contrary, htc saw a growth in the usa on its market share.
now lets turn to our car.
the n8 was so  good, that the first side-by-side test with htc's titan ii - with a 16mp  camera, and the n8 produced better pictures.
and one note on profits.
the digital convergence brought powerful  authoring and editing tools to any musician on their pc (and eventually  increasingly also on their smartphone).
and obviously, after even apple added videocalling support to the iphone 4, essentially every rival (not using wp7) does videocalls.
proud owners walk with four year old models if they were top models way back when and so forth.
china overtook the usa as the biggest individual country market for smartphones last year.
how  do you live in that kind of world?
yes cnn's smartphone app was available on the ovi  store.
nokia did the (non japan/non-s korea) world's first 8mp  cameraphone and first 12mp cameraphone.
i don't need 1 million sim cards, i need 1,000.
consequently we are faced with an increasingly pressing and urgent problem, what comes next?
and here is the relevant point - the two major analyst house projections for microsoft windows phone with nokia partnership, were published before nokia and microsoft q1 financial performance numbers were released.
this at a time when mobile phones went from geeky-nerdy tech toys for business execs, to must-have communication tools of the whole planet, from the youth to the grandparents.
so lets take again just  the usa.
i think this  phone has too much fragmentation, i'd like another phone with a bit less  fragmentation?
so this  is utter speculation of what might help the smartphone.
the replacable battery is far more necessary.
except that in december 2013 the world will have about two billion smartphones in use (we will see about 700 million sold this year alone).
in the usa nokia is a bargain-basement cheapo-phone brand and the  us market hasn't even seen most of nokia's recent flagship smartphones like the  n9, the e7, the n900, the e90 communicator, the n86 etc.
about apple - remember that this is 'mobile' not 'wireless'  or 'portable' so the iphone is mobile, but other ios devices, while they are  portable like ipad and ipod touch, they are not mobile devices, their services  are not mobile, they do not 'ring in your pocket' haha.
65 m . . . . . . . . .
taken from a robert penn warren novel: 'you look up the highway and it is straight for miles.
n/a source:  tomiahonen almanac 2012, the above table and data may be freely quoted notes: * indicates imaginary company, based only on mobile  revenues, with imaginary name for the company ** indicates actual real  ranking in fortune global 500 listing as it is a real company purely in mobile note also that the google company incorporates motorola mobility unit  revenues, but not other motorola mobile revenues of its networking etc business.
this is how he phrased it "windows phone raised its middle finger at the carriers" and to make matters worse, even after that, currently "windows phone requires microsoft to push hard on the carriers" and the carriers do not like this at all.
the myth of the iphone replacing the blackberry is, alas, quite premature.
this while the industry reports massive jump in q4 sales by rivals like samsung and apple.
i also refuted each of the 5 reasons forbes felt that windows phone would win.
so its no surprise to my readers and fans, and  readers at this blog, that i believe passionately in digital convergence.
is there any doubt, that mobile advertising is a key component in any ecosystem in mobile?
those numbers sound great, don't they.
mobile phones sell 1.3 billion units annually - in any one  year they sell more mobile phones than the total installed base of personal  computers on the planet.
as individuals or organisations we need to demonstrate the ability to face the future openly; we have to replace fear of the unknown with curiosity.
all will be less than 10 years old, half will be 5 years old or younger.
they dream of buying a bicycle to improve their lifestyle.
and add  to that the android installed base (qt supports android) and potentially  blackberry (the new blackberry os will be compatible with qt) - the nokia  'first ecosystem' if built around qt has a potential reach of more than 1.35  billion mobile phone users (more than 5x bigger than the total ios ecosystem or  the android ecosystem; more than 12 times bigger than the total blackberry  ecosystem and more than 100 times bigger than the windows phone).
yet we can go to expedia or travelocity or opodo whatever travel site you want to use, and get to see dozens of flight options - and their prices - and their routes - and the actual aircraft used.
so  we will see the mettle of stephen elop, is he competent to run nokia.
but we mentioned on this blog years ago, that artificial life's side-line product (their main business is tv-mobile interactive services like sms tv games etc) - a mobile java game called 'v-girl' the virtual girlfriend on your phone - sold 4 million copies.
what do we do with our smartphones.
but the hysteria about app stores is totally ridiculous today.
but consumers have not abandoned music.
that is not the same in television or  personal computers or cars or airplanes etc - most other industries the role of  the us market is very big.
you are landing in the coolest job  on the planet and may your reign be long and prosperous.
so what if we really do put the full  microsoft compatibility to e-series?
but the growth was shifted from stand-alone digital cameras to cameraphones and the sales of stand-alone digital cameras stalled and stagnated.
the value  of just that advertising runs in the millions except that nokia got it for  free.
but compared to any other handset maker, motorola, samsung, lg, apple, rim, htc, whoever, nokia had the best,the best carrier relationships worldwide.
but nokia was seen as a mostly gentle giant, and one that mostly did not do harm to the ecosystem.
and today that is of course  hdmi out.
most of all, is the migration of symbian os to touch screens.
only 1.2 billion people live in the industrialized world and all of the above only related to what is called 'the west'.
we had some very severe assumptions there in that  quick analysis.
with the language support, the ecosystems nationally  around the carriers and nokia grew meaningful in many cases.
the massive global market share dominance  that windows and office have in the workplace.
sweden started this summer the first parliamentary discussions about when is the right time to abandon printing cash, and moving to a mobile money only digital money economy!
(most of the smartphone rivals are complaining bitterly of how expensive the smartphone market is, and how difficult it is to generate any profits there - note just this year palm died and two very high profile smartphone/superphones were terminated totally, the google nexus one and microsoft's short-lived kin series of phones, and lenovo has been very public in complaining about how much more expensive its entry into smartphones was, than what it expected).
so you buy yourself a lumia and then  set it up to wake you for the next day to go to work - and will have a severe  'i hate nokia' moment when your phone rings silently without waking you up.
then we have the sms design flaw.
it took apple and google to show nokia how to re-imagine the phone.
like the book publishing industry is doing in japan for example where mobile books outsell ebooks already.
lumia  800 (and 900) is utterly beyond the market price except for the rich elites,  who will rather buy iphones, blackberries etc.
and also we are therefore presented with a design challenge: how do we create better societies, more able organisations and, more vibrant and equitable economies relevant to the world we live in today?
i started today's morning preparing  to come back to work and my mind was buzzing with thoughts of the truly big  picture.
the most trusted, most desired, most valued and loved brand.
and then the rep has to do the  returns paperwork and packaging hassles.
in the emerging world market, where all  the growth is now in dumbphones - nokia's market share is above 50%.
microsoft ended up selling over a billion copies of windows and for long times they had over 80% market share in the pc market, but pcs are not that widely spread across the planet, so microsoft never approacted 25% of the planet's population.
the 2010 flagship nokia smartphone,  the n8, had a 12 mp camera and xenon flash.
meanwhile microsoft's  windows phone was designed to work on very high spec components - in fact,  windows phone does not even work on nokia's standard chip supplier equipment  like texas instruments.
samsung mobile, s korea * . . .
but it also often means cannibalization of  the legacy services and their eco-systems.
but the opportunity is good when a new ceo comes in; the opportunity is  greater still, if the company has been seeing a dangerous decline in profits.
that poisons the reputation both for friends recommending smartphones and the sales reps at the stores.
what happened when giant mobile phones makers motorola, sonyericsson, samsung and lg tried to shift their 'dumbphone' user base to smartphones in the past decade?
when i joined nokia in the 1990s, the networking side was the bigger side with most of the staff and most of the revenues.
nokia was not only the best phone brand essentially in every country outside of the usa, canada (and south korea and japan); but it was literally the most valued brand: period.
what of the emerging world where 5.8 billion people live, where 75% of  all mobile phones are sold, and now half of all smartphones are sold.
what of navteq, of nokia money, or mobile avertising, the ovi store, etc etc etc.
the flash on the lumia 800 is led, the first nokia  flagships to go better was the n95 and n82 in 2007 with xenon flash.
and even its os, the most advanced smartphone os in the world in 2007 when the iphone launched - almost all upgrades to the iphone were actually 'bug fixes' to try to make the ios as good as symbian - is now having a migration plan to a totally new smartphone os, based on meego.
the ceo is actively assassinating the brand in every way he can.
the lumia including lumia 710 was designed by affluent american college kids.
nonetheless,  apple's iphone has an installed based (not cumulative shipments, but active  users) of about 150 million smartphone users today.
it may be to microsoft's advantage that the customer doesn't buy a meego or symbian based smartphone - but that customer will then go to another brand - and in 9 times out o 10, it will be either an iphone or an android.
so the feature list is scrutinized far more thoroughly.
three times the effort for zero more commission - while the customer bitches and moans and gives the sales rep a bad day.
this, in the country that was about to  become the world's biggest smartphone market.
the  first point to make, is that the author, e.d. kain, had actually written a pair  of articles about windows phone, this one yes in favor butalso another one  against.
tomi's other books tomi t ahonen:
he could decide their specifications, their intended target  markets and end-users.
nokia had a 5 megapixel camera when the iphone was introduced with  only 2 megapixels.
where nokia smartphones tended not to be the coolest and sexiest in recent years, at least nokia was always known for stuffing every conceivable tech feature onto its flagship phones.
india is rapidly growing into another giant as is indonesia, russia, brazil etc.
that would give the car 2 subscriptions (for a short duration) but then  upon our person we'd go down from 3 subscriptions to 2, as one was temporarily  assigned to the car.
this was not invented by blackberry.
what is it that we, smartphone buyers, want.
so in the usa, on this  lumia partnership, the conventional wisdom says that the microsoft brand will  help restore nokia (on the brand).
battle of ecosystems elop preaches about the battle of ecosystems.
contrast that with the 2.1 billion people  with a banking account as reported by the bbc last year.
zokem surveyed 10,000 smartphone owners in 2011 in the usa and europe and guess what was used most by smartphone users.
neither does any of rim's blackberry products nor any of google's android related initiatives.
that covers the giant industries i want to mention in this blog today.
it won every contest and comparison against every rival everywhere, a superb cameraphone and videocam phone.
the finnish employment culture - and that at nokia - rewards loyalty and makes it difficult to lay off people.
obviously that is impossible, even with the iphone there is fragmentation (retina display for example so the screen resolutions are different in the 3 series and 4 series of iphones).
i am not  suggesting the carriers/operators loved nokia - nokia was too big and powerful  to be loved.
for the full year 2010, nokia was twice as big as its nearest rival.
xphone, ballmerphone,  redmondo.
it also has a new os coming up, called meego, also open source, also supported by many manufacturers, but is now fresh and new, and linux based.
i would be very confident in believing that at least  the n8 will not be seen as a failure in its early reviews the way the n97 was  received.
nokia had failed in the us market, so the nokia brand cannot help microsoft in the us market, that would need to be the other way around.
by nations of the top 25, 5 of the biggest companies come from the usa, 3 from china, 3 from japan, 2 from south korea, and 2 from france.
in 2013 the projection has 16 million symbian sales for a total of 80  million nokia smartphones.
but that is rare and  would take years of competence to develop by the bookstore owners, and still  would not be nearly as powerful as the amazon recommendation engine, in  pinpointing exactly what kind of books i may like.
apple's sudden decline comes also at optimal timing for the new ceo of nokia.
this is the decade of the biggest  growth of consumer camera use ever, where the annual market for new digital  camera purchases grew by more than 10 fold.
there is no microsd.
not in 2010 when elop joined  nokia as its ceo.
else if you do touch screen, you are just another rival.
that was a lot of smoke-and-mirrors.
he could decide how to price them and support the launch with marketing.
the carriers/operators know they need the handsets, and smarpthones need operating systems to run.
the users absolutely love it, suggesting the phone seems to read your mind.. and taking those lessons, nokia launched nokia money in india and is enabling near field to all its new smartphones.
elop had a company that had growing sales, growing revenues, growing profits, and a growing share price - and turned that to losing sales, losing revenues, generating losses and a massively crashing share price (nokia's share price fell to less than half in the next five months).
so far  up to now, the converged opportunity has always ended up far bigger than the  initial industries that got into it.
so that is why i want to start  with the consumer market where almost 4 out of 5 smartphones are sold.
well, actually that number is implausible because of the lack of electricity.
you can read briefly about the other six here -6 challenges for a non-linear world.
microsoft is like the cheap prostitute.
and he goes against it.
now our cumulative number hits 29.4 billion.
lumia series is pure touch screen only.
but we mentioned on this blog years ago, that artificial  life's side-line product (their main business is tv-mobile interactive services  like sms tv games etc) - a mobile java game called 'v-girl' the virtual  girlfriend on your phone - sold 4 million copies.
before february, nokia's profits were growing strongly.
a billion out of what, over 200,000 actual apps that exist in the app store?
before this action, nokia could control how advertising might appear on nokia branded smartphones.
and obviously, local developers can offer local  apps in their home languages!
and in any  case, if a customer wanting a nokia branded phone, is not walking out of the  store with a nokia branded phone, that is a lost customer to nokia (and gain to  apple or android).
no matter what the apple loyalists think of the iphone, it  will never be a mass market phone.
t-mobile, germany *  . . .
did those analyst  houses bother to give an updated forecast?
but it was not until apple entered the mobile  phone market with the iphone, that its profitability exploded.
we had some very severe assumptions there in that quick analysis.
they were used on par with mobile internet and far above apps.
the customer is far far more value-aware.
the third  point raised by forbes is that with windows phone there will be uniformity  across devices.
he could choose which type of models nokia would create - as these are truly new-from-the-ground-up smartphones, as they do not even use standard nokia components.
now in october 2011, morgan stanley reported that  chinese consumers plan to buy their next smartphone preference for nokia had  fallen further to 18%.
where ios and  admob and others face strong competition in advertising from legacy mass media  like tv, newspapers, radio etc; and obviously internet advertising - nokia's  symbian platform is thedominant smartphone platform in all  countries where legacy media is not established as a true 'mass' medium reaching even half of the population and where mobile access to the  internet exceeds pc based access to the internet.
they are now idling because nokia sales have crashed.
mobile advertising almost doubled again in 2009 and 2010 yet again.
in the emerging world the smartphone situation is dramatically different from that of the wealthy industrialized world.
and the one company that was replaced from the 2010 list - russia's biggest mobile operator by revenues, mts, was replaced by another bric company biggest operator - bharti airtel of india.
i didn't talk about the reality of the device as it is manufactured, whether design flaws or component problems or build quality etc.
same in the newsmedia or gaming or advertising or indeed money and banking and credit cards.
theguardian reported on this for example.
now is microsoft the expert on sms?
$  49 b ( $ 50 b)  . . .
what moron moron  moron didn't prioritize sms and allowed this kind of failure at microsoft?
i have written another long blog explaining why skype is the ultimate red flag to carriers/operators.
nokia has been selling 'comes with music' handsets  for years.
he is in breach of stock market regulations and clearly hasacted with a confict of interest.
they aren't about to do it any time soon, but they have started the serious discussion about the end of money as we knew it.
it is being now burned forever.
and this is a nokia superiority.
similarly for example  notebook and netbook pcs are not counted for lenovo or samsung etc.
there is the question about synergies between the networking unit,  nokiasiemens networks and the rest of nokia.
nokia did not make an utterly failing phone like the n97 or one with a technical error like the antennagate of the iphone 4.
the only way that is possible, is if smartphones have become less expensive at the low end of the price point.
the market changed drastically.
so let me give you the quick executive summary  version here on the top.
ford once sold more than half of all cars manufactured on the planet yes, but in no country was there a ford in the garages of 25% of the total population.
nokia phones are sold on more networks than any other phone brand and nokia has special partnership relationships with many carriers, ranging from the world's largest carrier/operator china mobile to the world's most advanced and demanding carrier/operator ntt docomo of japan (the carrier who launched the world's first cellular telecoms mobile business ie the company that started this industry).
google just told us last year that google makes 2.5  billion dollars of advertising revenues out of its mobile advertising arm.
then we have seat guru, which will tell me what in-flight electricity options  are on that class of seat on that specific aircraft type on that particular  airline.
but in all honesty, this won't happen to all people on the planet (kids for example) and definitely won't happen in one decade.
this is when the futility of bothering to create wp7 versions becomes obvious.
it is true that the dumbphone market is shifting to smartphones - they expect half of all new smartphones sold in the usa next year to be smartphones - that is happening in western europe now, and has already happened in some of the most advanced markets of the world - like my new home country of hong kong where half of all phones already are smartphones today.
the lumia battery is failing.
yet we can go to expedia or travelocity or  opodo whatever travel site you want to use, and get to see dozens of flight  options - and their prices - and their routes - and the actual aircraft used.
in reality, the top of the market is not the  growth opportunity in smarpthones - all major analysts say, time and again,  that the growth opportunity in smartphones is in the bottom of the price range,  as smartphones go mainstream to the mass market consumers.
4 million is nothing amazing to the mobile industry.
by the next year, cameraphones alone outsold all  types of stand-alone cameras (digital and film-based).
the  reality is that in the past 12 months, nokia smartphones have been winning  against the iphone, not losing to it.
smartphone accounted for 37% of that amount last year.
so, even three years from now, the microsoft windows phone os family will have only about 5% market share.
so lets not review my view.
and drool at the amazing  opportunity that nokia business-oriented e-series smartphones can have with  full microsoft office integration.
i know  there are many who are interested in my view about nokia's new ceo.
and again, doing it profitably.
except that where cow herds can be big, cows are herding animals, so all the farmer needs to do, is connect the lead cow, and the others will follow.
in a small 'mom and pop' bookstore, if you were a loyal customer, you could perhaps gain the familiarity with the bookstore owner, to be able to get some recommendations.
and this is a  nokia superiority.
nokia's market share of new sales in the summer of 2010 in britain was 33% according to kantar.
but all those countries combined have a population that covers 7% of the planet's population.
but after nokia jumps into bed with microsoft in 2012 the market share is not 20%, it will be.. 11%.in 2013 nokia and microsoft will not magically recover to 20%.
someone prefers a cadillac  escallade, another prefers a toyota prius.
and it isn't even powered by nokia components like the cpu (the engine).
i could tell you  that a gambler left las vegas with 100,000 dollars in his pocket.
it went through the dog, and the next day, in the dog poo, the nokia phone was there, and it worked.
in many cases a retired couple could get one ipad style device perhaps - to share among the pair.
that covers the giant industries  i want to mention in this blog today.
but  10-fold in one decade?
nokia already sells basic non-touch screen smartphones at 100 dollars (price without subsidy, ie without contract, where the iphone without contract costs 600 dollars) and is pushing the price point of cheapest touch screen smartphones to that level too - already offering its cheapest touch screen smartphone at nearly 100 euros.
for example  the phone will not wake up from the alarm.
i am however, very well aware that the banking and money industry moves very slowly, is very conservative.
the early windows versions were horrible up to windows  3.0 in 1990, when finally microsoft released an 'macintosh clone' that was good  enough.
so lets go  to the forbes article then.
and nokia  would often time its mass market launches with particular precision - consider  its 3g phones for example.
before we get into massive argument about blackberry is dying, hear this:   a 2011 survey of 20,000 businesses in the usa by tns, found that  blackberry penetration ranged from 61% to 81%.
not until the first radio in the mobile phone.
but no named source and no numbers!
microsoft has been able to peddle thesheer impossibility of a 'third ecosystem' - which even microsoft loyalists would not have believed considering how ridiculous are ballmer-oriented claims about microsoft's future - but they suddenly believed it, when the nokia ceo said the same.
and then went to their carrier store, to  buy it.
what is the bestselling category on the iphone - games.
we hear of some great successes - more than half of helsinki area public transportation single tickes are sold via mobile, and all of parking in estonia is mobile, and now more than half of all banking accounts in kenya are mobile banking accounts.
the world  is going ever more lean.
there are three major business units at nokia which derive most of the  revenues.
but  the really weird part is, that nokia is pretty well poised to outperform its  other big 5 handset maker rivals into the foreseeable future.
last in my trilogy of nokia numbers postings re q4.
the engine your tata sportscar  has, came from proton the cheap car maker in malaysia.
thus lumia will perform worse than nokia smartphones have done before.
no wonder that one of the us carriers refused to offer the glaring color options.
which brings us to the nokia magic  with microsoft office suite integration.
nokia does not  give us a breakdown of the s40 sales, but nokia recently celebrated the 1.5  billionth s40 cumulative shipment number.
you lost customers trying to shift them from  dumbphones to smartphones.
nokia did not make  an utterly failing phone like the n97 or one with a technical error like the  antennagate of the iphone 4.
lets look how these differ for the less affluent part of the planet's population.
someone else wants a pickup truck, or a minivan or a smart car.
some premium ipods probably will offer the connectivity but even those, mostly will not connect to the cellular, and will rather connect via wifi).
yet nokia lost two thirds of its customers in just one year.
but when  smartphone users start to use the lumia, they soon are frustrated and  disappointed.
remember nokia  was not a pc maker like apple or hp or lenovo now urgently trying to capture  the shift from traditional pcs to smartphones.
the lumia 800 doesn't read usb thumb drives and memory sticks.
there  are many application developer issues that are not supported - like the hottest  area right now, augmented reality.
even the 'burning platforms obsolete' symbian based nokia  (ovi) app store has twice that in apps.
analysys gave the q2 market shares for china in 2011 and nokia had crashed in one year to.. 22% with samsung and motorola nipping at nokia's heels.
i do not know anything about stephen elop except that he's a canadian, he ran microsoft's office unit and championed cloud computing at microsoft.
blackberry's big global rise has been driven by  this shift (as the youth - ie consumer not enterprise customers - have fallen  in love with the blackberry).
again a shift that nokia  initiated and is mastering today with few real rivals (samsung the strongest to  try this tactic too, with its bada based smartphones that were only launched  earlier this year).
mobile operators exist in ambiguity mo mobile madness - ecosystem-elop sells nokia mobile ad unit (???
but  the total smartphone proportion of all phones sold more than doubled in the  past two years.
third biggest population is the usa, but fourth biggest?
but lets assume it  truly happens.
the market shares of those other 'big 5 handset makers' in smartphones was almost every quarter worse, than their share in dumphones.
from february 2011 to today,  nokia has set a world record in destroying its market share.
it once made personal computers  (primarily for the domestic finnish market, nokia's micromikko was an  ibm-compatible pc running microsoft operating systems).
it too made windows mobile smartphones and it also did not see a fall, on the contrary, htc saw a growth in the usa on its market share.
a new context must be created; a new  ‘common sense’ must emerge and propogate.
and even then, as each company involved a lot of digging through their annual reports, it took me forever to get it done.
artists could still sell tickets at concerts, so they shifted more of their income from selling albums to concerts.
but in the  emerging world countries, the price differential between models is far more  value-driven.
customer surveys suggested only 2% of customers in the launch countries even considered a lumia.
but is it truly more  important, that the ui is 'unique' - something no buyer asked for - or whether  the operating system itself if useful, or the app store has tons of apps, or  the camera is easy to use; etc.
what is even more insidious and will damage nokia's tattered reputation considerably, is the revellation that nokia and microsoft executives have been going to blogsites to argue with reviews if they were negative about lumia.
of the big media  industries like print, broadcast and the related advertising industries, their  migration into mobile has only started and is in the low single digits in  percent of total revenues or total content delivered.
the above chart  is of course one of the over 90 tables and charts that are among the topics  covered in the tomiahonen almanac 2011.
adjusted for growth, this time that would be 6.4 million units.
kodak has been in restructuring mode for 15 years – cutting headcount, closing factories, tightening belts and squeezing rocks for blood.
i have included their position also from the previous list and revenues last time so you see how the growth or decline has been.
if you do love this purist touch screen look - then you will buy..
it was not manufactured in nokia's world's most efficient and competent handset manufacturing factories.
nokia has traditionally been able to hold to the world's  largest smartphone market share - a year ago nokia was literally not just  bigger than the iphone, it was bigger than the iphone and all samsung  smartphones - combined.
and android will be over a billion  smartphones.
yet a child of 6 can do the same within a fraction of a second on google today.
nokia is again voluntarily abandoning a competitive advantage, which means  lumia will perform less well than nokia was able to do in the past.
but the vast majority of nokia's business still today, is in 'dumbphones' ie the basic phones and the featurephones like say a cameraphone or a musicphone.
these were major surveys of all mobile phone owners.
the whole camera and video experience was always superior on nokia.
like the customer who has had a previous nokia and loved that its fm transmitter lets you connect to your car without an ipod cable connector.
disruption never asks for permission nokia said it would never release a touch screen phone, so someone else did  - a software company.
but  if you think about the real power and influence, real revenues, employees, etc,  the above gives a good listing of who are the 25 biggest companies in mobile.
that is what we are monitoring here on the communities dominate  blog.. ps - if you'd like to read more, i have a few thoughts on the  lessons of digital convergence up to now here, after the link continue reading "convergence contest?
these number have been reported in hundreds of stories and the vast majority of those stories cheerfully reported that this was good news.
so lets look a bit at how far we've migrated into mobile.
yet the opportunities did not come from just fixed telecoms services like local and long distance calls and voicemail, or those enabled on mobile.
no, nokia doesn't need patent protection, and this wont' matter one iota in lumia's success or failure.
i say boycott, you say  tomato.
but no, they called it  windows phone.
amplifying reason 3 - look and feel remember in the emerging world nokia is the gold standard for consumers of mobile phones.
google  ceo eric schmidt has been saying that for years already, and the new google  strategy,'mobile first' is a clear indication of how seriously they are  taking it.
they don't like it, but they will do it, if there  is money.
but i  don't see someone coming to the store, and buying the lousy phone with the  unique interface rather than the good phone with the familiar interface.
why doesn't elop fix this at nokia, nokia has a far wider reach in countries where mobile advertising is often the only mass market advertising medium.
well, that is not really the end of the world, as long as it does have real ferrari components, except that when you look at the engine, you find it came not from ferrari's engine factory.
the coming age of an uncertain world when faced with an ambiguous world some move into  that world, and embrace it to understand it, listen deeply and think very hard  about transformation - how to transform, how to design for transformation.
but the timing is close enough, that any 'revival' by  nokia can be seen mirroring a decline by apple - and from now forward, it will  be credited to the new ceo, even though he actually had nothing to do with  that.
so the touch screen input is no better than any rivals, and is worse than the best.
proud owners walk with four year old models if they were top  models way back when and so forth.
last quarter we have data for, q3, windows phone  sales had fallen to about 500,000 units worldwide.
this was a pc maker company with a tiny global market share of about 3%, that made corporate losses in the mid 1990s, that found new profits by selling premium luxury smartphones.
the first nokia flagship smartphone to include the n-gage gaming engine was the n82.
one phone model costs 479 dollars, the next 529 dollars, another 499  dollars etc.
we heard from apple - the leader in app stores - earlier this year,  that the total earned by the apple iphone app store last year was under a  billion dollars.
it is literally the  biggest fall of a global customer base, in any one year, of any company, in any  industry - ever.
they aren't  about to do it any time soon, but they have started the serious discussion  about the end of money as we knew it.
its r&d processes are slow,  painfully slow compared to 'internet speed' rivals like say google.
the topmost lumia900 that was announced at ces has its camera downgraded from the n8.
and elop was hired - as then chairman of nokia jorma ollila  said when introducing stephen elop -elop was hired to fix nokia  problems in execution.
but compared to any other handset maker, motorola,  samsung, lg, apple, rim, htc, whoever, nokia had the best,the best carrier relationships worldwide.
elop will have squandered the only chance nokia had had, to try to shift platforms, and blasted what any opportunity may have been left for lumia.
the camera industry boldly and bravely (and foolishly) thought mobile phone based cameraphones would never catch on, and never rival their industry.
it was a hard choice for chairman jorma ollila and his board, but  once that decision was made, they did need a new ceo.
in the 'west' we have  pcs at work and home.
but we should assume growth, so lets double that number and we arrive  at 8 billion connected personal stand-alone (non mobile phone based) digital  gadgets.
you want paid downloads to mobile?
but balanced against that shrinking of one pie, is the simultaneous growth of the total pie.
tomi's ebooks on mobile pearls pearls vol 1: mobile advertising tomi's first ebook is 171 pages with  50 case studies of real cases of mobile advertising and marketing in 19  countries on four continents.
i'll be the first to admit  most consumers won't use most features and in recent years the smartphones have  become so complex, even expert users couldn't work all parts of their phones.
" web and advertising what of the internet?
and  that, if we take the dozen industries mentioned in this blog (excluding travel,  cars, hotels etc) is worth a cool 5 trillion dollars or about 9% of the total  global economic spending of all economies on the planet.
in india and much of africa the access to electricity is so rare, that people often send the spare batteries to nearby towns or villages to be recharged (while using the other spare battery to power the phone).
the  lumia series is doomed to fail.
the new ceo inherits a powerhouse mobile phone maker giant, which is on solid foundations, well positioned to reap benefits of the economic upturn, and well poised to capture a disproportionately large share of almost any conceivable mobile phone industry opportunities that can currently be seen on the horizon, including all flavors of smartphone opportunities from superphones to app stores.
south korea was the first country to make 'cards' out of credit cards optional - all credit card services are automatically enabled onto your mobile phone (instantly when the credit is approved), and if you want, a free plastic traditional credit card can be mailed in a few days also to your home address - if you so desire.
and they  are very happy to quote reputable analyst houses who promised windows phone  with nokia will reach 20% market share or better in smartphones.
i have not seen any recent nokia organizational charts, but probably there is room to cut some areas that drain managment resources but deliver little value to the bottom line.
to do that requires a step change in learning and self-improvement – this is achieved through continuous contemplation and self-reflection which ultimately enables the mastery of an aware self/organisation, with the motivation to pursue truly motivated goals.
digital editing of sound has enabled errors in sound quality to be 'fixed' - ie some boy bands and girl bands may have members who don't have good singing voices (perhaps are better dancers or just pretty on stage ) that can be increasingly 'fixed' electronically.
google's android reaches about 250 million active users today.
but this  lumia series including its 'cheap' version lumia 710 is a slap in the face of  emerging world markets.
i am not saying it doesn't matter at all.
only because of elop
and before you say 'windows' - the second  most popular smartphone in us businesses - microsoft's home country and  microsoft's windows pc and office suite penetration's best country by far - is  not windows, not windows mobile nor windows phone.
by every single criterion, nokia lumia is underperforming the market - and on most it is regressing from where nokia was before lumia.
sms is the most valued and most used service on mobile phones in every market - even the usa is now in that state, so said the usa's own ctia the cellular telecoms industry association in 2009.
and the lumia 800? gotta fly to europe to get that.
microsoft could have called the new os anything.
there is a need to accept a lack of control, and of uncertainty, not only being prepared to accept being taken outside of one’s comfort zone but deliberately seeking it out – the consequence of which is a more disciplined mind or organisational culture, that is now capable of strong creative and conceptual thinking.
and this amazing transition they have done - consistently - while making the best profits of any big phone maker.
but the opportunity is good when a new ceo comes in; the opportunity is greater still, if the company has been seeing a dangerous decline in profits.
with a bit of rounding off, we are now at 43.6 billion.
he could decide which countries and which carriers would be offered the lumia.
its profits  have been declining (some might say perilously).
reason 9 - the os is deficient.
but elop has consistently been making it worse.
then they became consumer gadgets (also invented by nokia four years before before the iphone).
(again, us readers, don't be fooled about t-mobile contract price of 50 dollars for lumia 710, it costs many times more without the subsidy).
but you won't make it of course.
to seek new patterns that make sense even if they challenge pre-conceived  ideas, positions and ways of doing things.
if you want to, go ahead.
i do like the bold predictions to suggest big growth, to counter those who peddle the tired myth that we are somehow at saturation or near saturation in mobile.
so yes, if you take nokia in december 2010, when nokia had 29% market share  with symbian; and you add microsoft windows phone and windows mobile, who had a  combined market share of 3%, and add those together, you get 32%.
and yet, with windows  phone, microsoft's own departed exec admits microsoft has been making those  carrier relationships worse.
this is not me saying the os is not top on the mind of smarpthone buyers, or the number of apps in the app store.
they  are utterly dooming lumia.
vantsuyoshi on the truth.
nokia partnered with german camera optics specialists carl zeiss, and from the early n-series on, nokia had far and away the best cameraphones in that part of the planet where 98% of its population lives (japan and south korea have exceptionally advanced domestic mobile phone markets).
these numbers are very very small.
if elop could have left symbian  alone, he would be now reaping the benefits of all the hard work nokia did over  the years.
both of those communication disasters independently ruined their  respective companies, ratners and osborne.
maybe 2 or 3 thousand just to have some spare capacity, but not a million per forest..
even at the height of 'beetle  mania' meaning the iconic volkswagen original beetle, there was not a vw for  every fourth person on the planet.
lets take this issue logically, reasonably and  with facts, not just conjecture and opinion and hope and hype.
now nokia branded smartphones, when using the microsoft windows phone os, will be subject to microsoft advertising concepts and spyware.
this  chart took enough time from me.
did nokia bother to put a qwerty keyboard onto its first three lumia phones?
so, all you you out there who are screaming for nokia to shift now to android.
3 mobile subscriptions per person (not inconceivable, i for example walk around daily with 3 subscriptions, have done so since 2003).
this  selling of a key nokia ecosystem component is how nokia's ceo communicates to  his staff how his new management stops the competition from "taking our market share with an entire ecosystem."
by the next year, cameraphones alone outsold all types of stand-alone cameras (digital and film-based).
the customer is  far far more value-aware.
now we know that stephen elop destroyed his company in february.
that is not a highly loved brand.
from that it  is a very 'safe' projection - actually quite negative of this alliance, if  separately they are worth 32% but combined they only do 20% or 22% or something  like that.
a paper based traditional travel agent would never ever have that  capacity, except perhaps for the few 'domestic' airlines that serve their home  town.
no matter how much lipstick you put on a pig, it is still a pig.
neither does any of rim's  blackberry products nor any of google's android related initiatives.
so now the new microsoft smartphone os has the worst branding baggage out of the whole microsoft empire.
the past nokia  phones, dumbphones and smartphones have dominated the emerging world.
but nokia is the gorilla in the room, when it comes to the  mobile industry.
biggest smartphone os china . . . . . . . .
and this is all without considering the natural need of enterprise/business phones - keyboards!
and the major media industries and advertising are headed to a pocket near you too.
nokia owns the smartphone os platform that reaches the widest audience in 17 out of the 20 biggest countries on the planet.
there is indeed deep institutional resistance to real change.
nokia  very literally scared away six out of every ten customers it had a year ago.
nokia could throw all at it, and microsoft would essentially then double that still.
i have wanted to update that list for 2011 and it got delayed and delayed.
but the decision to sell away  nokia's own mobile advertising arm, and turn nokia hostage to microsoft's  advertising, isin the best interests of microsoft.
this is not me saying the os is not top on  the mind of smarpthone buyers, or the number of apps in the app store.
nokia true reach far wider
all will be less than 10 years old, half will be 5  years old or younger.
the mobile did cannibalize some of the fixed telecoms revenues (and skype  probably took more of the fixed telecoms revenues than mobile) but today, the  resulting combined telecoms industry is far bigger, about twice in size.
in  many cases a retired couple could get one ipad style device perhaps - to share  among the pair.
the office suite and some of its components like word, excel and powerpoint are clear market leaders in their fields.
elop and ballmer talk about it at every opporunity.
it is literally the biggest fall of a global customer base, in any one year, of any company, in any industry - ever.
its not  only the biggest fall ever witnessed in any one year by a global brand leader  in technology such as computers or home electronics etc.
nonetheless, to sell a mobile advertising unit for a major handset maker goes  totally against the grain, where rivals are investing more in advertising, not  less.
standing at the edge of the adaptive range of our industrial world
sold 100 million copies to mobile phones and counting.
it depends how much he had in his pocket when he arrived in vegas.
morgan stanley's projection when converged to markets share is.. 8%.
and where nokia  previously did have near retina display pixel density on the e90 communicator,  nokia has again regresssed and now both lumia 900 and lumia 800 fall far short  of the retina display sharpness of even the year-old iphone 4.
nokia factories are the world's most modern and efficient, including the world's largest handset plant in china.
and there are many technical ways to do mobile payments and mobile banking and mobile wallets, which do not all require a separate subscription and/or additional sim card.
but the lumia  710 has a decidedly cheap look to it, very plasticky.
for me its ironic that mobile has contributed so much to this supercharged socially networked world.
that may be good for microsoft (which seems  not to care in the least about suing everyone so it might even be seen as a  drawback at redmond).
samsung mobile, s korea *  . . .
this happened while the global smartphone industry exploded in 2011 growing by 59% from the year before.
but nokia sells more than phone handsts.
in a small 'mom and pop' bookstore,  if you were a loyal customer, you could perhaps gain the familiarity with the  bookstore owner, to be able to get some recommendations.
the british know what is the ratner effect and what is the osborne effect.
the first generation of iphones would not  even let users install apps to it!
that means  apple is consigned to being a tiny nicheplayer which has a global market share  of 2% of all phones sold (14% of all smartphones).
symbian japan . . . . . . . . .
this time there is huge pent-up demand for  nokia phones and almost no rival nokia handsets to steal any lumia sales.
so the second highest factor deciding which smartphone normal consumers buy, is brand.
they can actually tag trees in forests of a million trees.
that handset manufacturer was ...nokia.
plus nokia had removable storage media ie microsd cards so you could shoot many hours of dvd quality video and then just swap your microsd card and continue shooting.
you can believe me, or not.
the computer industry is going mobile.
android is 8 times bigger, apple iphone  app store is literally 10 times bigger.
and then there is the specialist need.
its why ambiguity is the first principle of nsl.
the blogosphere is very upset with nokia - perhaps less so with microsoft as it seems to be par for the course.
nokia knows all this.
that is the right strategy for nokia (while it would not necessarily be the optimal strategy for a specialist niche maker like apple or rim).
in germany the same  story, not even the top 10, not even for the december month.
this is the build quality you get when you outsource your factory.
lumia  series is pure touch screen only.
we have intelligent dog collars for hunting dogs for example, and the  dogs-to-humans translator (bowlingual) which translates dog sounds to sms  messages for humans of what the dog is trying to say.
so says comscore in 2011 - said 83% of europeans and 68% of us phone owners sent sms text messages.
but music didn't end.
the total installed base of windows phone  today, about a year and a half from launch is... under one percent of the  smartphones in use worldwide.
yes the usa, known for such fantastic global hit phones as the palm,  the danger, the hp, the compaq, the motorola - anyone remember the rokr - and  yes, microsoft's own magnificent kin, the phone so disasterous, it was  terminated 6 weeks after launch.
designing for transformation
we are starting to get there..
what does convergence enable remember that  converence gives us new opportunities of better experiences and as an industry,  vast new opportunities.
android has been killing microsoft and palm, and  damaging apple - while symbian (and blackberry) has been barely touched.
water,  electricity and gas metering.
the lumia doesn't have fm radio, nokia added  it gosh, years ago, about 2005.
but elop has consistently been making it  worse.
it will probably take you half an hour to complete this article but i promise you, it is stuffed with facts, stats, insights and goodies.
this is the desperation move by the small rival who tries by a few cosmetic tricks to expand its product line.
there are far more abilies and functions and services that game as additional growth areas, like mobile internet or mms picture messaging or mobile payments and banking, etc.
the microsoft windows phone is not a strong brand in smartphones and neither is nokia.
then we have seat guru, which will tell me what in-flight electricity options are on that class of seat on that specific aircraft type on that particular airline.
same in the newsmedia or gaming or advertising or indeed money and banking and  credit cards.
when we individually and collectively live in an age of uncertainty, we must all become masters of managing uncertainty.
obviously that is impossible,  even with the iphone there is fragmentation (retina display for example so the  screen resolutions are different in the 3 series and 4 series of iphones).
the nokia  strength has been exceptional qwerty keyboards.
nokia has a history of truly exceptional feel to  its top phones.
nokia had secured 'carrier billing' relationships with over 100 carriers worldwide for ovi (no other rival app store had even one quarter that level - carrier billing means one-click payments that get charged directly off your phone bill or prepaid account.
and it isn't even  powered by nokia components like the cpu (the engine).
at the end of the  previous decade, the majority of music sales was through the sale of music cds.
and then you find out, the car was  designed by the tractor factory designers from zetor in russia.
that was  the lesson we learned in the pc industry with windows vs macintosh.
this is the second most used ability of the mobile phone.
i reflected on a conversation i had 48 hours earlier with another global company (different industry sector) - their view was that by looking 40 years into the future if they carried on doing what they had been doing they would not exist as a company.
you are landing in the coolest job on the planet and may your reign be long and prosperous.
so welcome stephen elop
for the 5 trillion dollar trophy."
but in the  emerging world where it is very common to have a daily wage of 2 dollars (thats  before taxes) a 600 dollar superphone is totally beyond reach.
roughly a quarter of all cars in south korea are  already connected to the internet.
we can book our seat and pay for the ticket and get a  boarding pass to the phone, but we still need an airplane to burn jet fuel to  fly from one airport to another.
those  sound very reasonable.
the ovi store was nothing, nobody  and nowhere in the usa and no doubt when elop flew every week from finland to  his other home in seattle usa, he felt ovi was a failure.
going back to the telco's big success over the last 20 years.
$ 12 b ( $ 11 b ) . . . .
then they announced android based smartphones for their vodafone 360 service environment.
i said nothing of build quality
i have given you only 13 reasons why lumia will fail.
for those pundits who obsess about the touch screen ui  leadership - which apple clearly holds over any rivals in handsets - there are  dozens of other issues of phone feature (and price) factors where nokia has  mastered most, and is getting ever better at the touch screen too.
i have not used a lumia or any windows phone based smartphone.
which file standards does the media player support.
it is  abandoned with the first 3 lumia phones.
and the microsoft windows phone cavalry  will not arrive in time to save nokia.
so the nokiasiemens  networking unit has been fighting a brave fight in a loss-making industry and  turned it around to generate modest profits - that is a very good sign of good  management.
now we know that stephen elop destroyed his company in  february.
this is corporate  suicide.
for the second most  important factor for smartphone buyers, the brand - both brands are so  poisonous, this is the classic comment, two turkeys do not an eagle make.
$ 25 b ( $ 19 b) . . . .
to see his full bio and his books, visit www.tomiahonen.com
and for the car makers, it makes no sense to split their data traffic to many mobile operators, rather to accumulate their total traffic load and negotiate with all carriers/mobile operators to get the best bulk deal for the whole fleet of cars, on one network.
nokia could sell advertising to its own smartphones.
zokem surveyed 10,000 smartphone owners in 2011 in the  usa and europe and guess what was used most by smartphone users.
reason 13 - hostile carrier relations with microsoft nokia was known to be friendly to carriers if bureaucratic and uncompromising.
i honestly am not even googling his background now - i am sitting at a starbucks in toronto, waiting for my next meeting appointment, and am drafting this article with a nice tall cup of cappuchino.
so what happened to the big four camera brands?
andnow elop wants to cause all that confusion by discontinuing the ovi store brand.
nokia introduced tv out in 2006 meaning you could watch your  pictures, websites, videos etc on your home tv.
in 2009 about 13% of new phones sold were indeed smartphones.
the value of just that advertising runs in the millions except that nokia got it for free.
nokia's 'obsolete' symbian is the biggest smartphone operating system  in 17 out of the 20 largest countries on the planet by population.
elop single-handedly wiped out nokia's demand in february 2011.
the multitouch interface, on capacitive touch screen, and apple's brilliant, logical and intuitive software system, all worked.
elop had carte blanche to overspend on the launch marketing activities as much as he wanted, and obviously no other ceo in any other situation would have approved as extravagant marketing budgets for just any year's 'regular' flagship model launch.
norway was  the first country to let you submit your tax return by mobile.
reason 10 - regressing in features and services and the last of the major decision criteria in the industrialized world for selecting smartphones is the features and services offering.
why is every blackberry and every nokia e-series carrying a full qwerty  keyboard?
and you cannot  transfer apps and various content via bluetooth etc.
earendil star on the truth.
unmitigated utter colossal catastrophy.
this 'flagship' phone seems like it was designed by total amateurs who were somehow utterly ignorant of the vast competence nokia had built over the past decade.
consistently with the above.
is this the  sensible way to go?
at the end of last year we reached mid-point, where half of all internet users accessed the web at least part of the time using a mobile phone (which includes the simple wap type of mobile internet usage common in many parts of the emerging world markets).
and for nokia, who cares.
the world's most sold branded camera optics are not nikon or canon branded lenses, they are carl zeiss optics, on many premium nokia cameraphones.
but when smartphone users start to use the lumia, they soon are frustrated and disappointed.
ultimate job on the planet imagine, its just about the ultimate job?
so these are all very early in the game.
the ceo is  actively assassinating the brand in every way he can.
the north american market situation is the trickiest communication problem.
they are hoping and praying that nobody ever ever mentions their absurd  forecasts again.
what does lumia have?
these cheap phones in 2009 had an average price of 100 dollars (that has come  down since then).
it should be  said, that the telecoms networking business has been a huge drain on most major  telecoms vendors - motorola's networking unit went bankrupt, ericsson's was  loss-making for many years, nortel of canada went bankrupt and lucent from the  usa, also loss-making, was sold to alcatel of france.
growth rate what of the growth rate?
i can't 'prove' prove it to you, but it  is very widely accepted by experts in the industry, that nokia's resale channel  froze in february and nokia products were removed from displays etc.
so you dig more and you find out, that this car wasn't painted by ferrari in its colors, it was painted by kia the cheap car maker of south korea.
but.. the  burning platforms memo is 1 year old.
there have been many commentaries of the issue, perhaps the best direct response was by don reisinger at eweek.
the sales reps hate  returns - because the customer has to be sold another model smartphone - but  the sales rep won't get a new commission.
market size totally trumps  fragmentation.
i can make some very general assumptions but honestly i have never met the man, cannot comment on his management style etc.
that has even been measured across the differences of the wealthy  countries of the industrialized world, and the less-affluent smartphone buyers  in the emerging world.
by definition, all new born humans between 2010 and 2020 will still be pre-teens by the end of the decade.
and there are many technical ways to do mobile payments and  mobile banking and mobile wallets, which do not all require a separate  subscription and/or additional sim card.
that fm radio that you laughed at in the  features section many thousand words ago in this story?
thats not much when we consider our ambitious 50  billion target.
android mexico . . . . . . . .
i am also including a fortune global 500 rank equivalent for those which would have qualified for the fortune global 500 based solely on their mobile business and what ranking they would have had.
artists would compile 'albums' of about 15 songs, sold at a price far greater than the one hit that currently made the artist popular on the charts.
nokia lumia has gotten good reviews for its appearance but nothing beyond that.
if you seriously believe  that microsoft can win enterprise/corporate customers of any meaningful degree  with nokia, you are deluding yourself.
so while we in the industrialized world can at least  theoretically have a good impression about microsoft and windows, and it can  'help' in the branding battles - top priority please remember, then in the emerging world countries the microsoft brand is no help and easily a  hindrance.
» posted by tomi t ahonen at 11:30 am in 7th mass media, advertising,  carriers / operators, citizen journalism, convergence, digital footprint,  ecosystem, emerging world, forecasts, gaming, google, m-commerce, mobile data  & m-web, mobile money, music, newsmedia, quotations, retail & commerce,  revenues, smartphone, social networking, statistics, strategy, television,  travel, virtual worlds | permalink | comments (43) | trackback (0) july 29, 2010 another casualty in smartphone bloodbath!
$ 77 b ( $ 65 b) . . .
apple iphone, usa *  . . .
yes,  nokia should be able to do better than it is doing, but every other big 5  handset maker has seen either quarterly losses, or severely declining profits  in the past few years, including nokia's nearest true rival - samsung.
and blackberry  obviously owns a lions's share of that market.
there is a third parallel trend  in smartphones, from business phones to consumer phones.
but this lumia series including its 'cheap' version lumia 710 is a slap in the face of emerging world markets.
plus nokia had removable storage media ie microsd cards
the advice and guidance of peers and friends is seeked even more than we might do.
the total global mobile phone app market last year was worth 5 billion dollars (said chetan sharma consulting).
we just lost 2.4 billion connections and a further 800 million metering connections.
or as arthur c. clarke said, the only way of discovering the limits of the possible is to venture a  little way past them into the impossible malik writes, anyone remember the nokia 770?
nokia which  could easily do this, rather has made three variations of one boring theme.
the telecoms industry is far along the way.
yet elop is doing everything he can to sink that nokia-controlled first ecosystem and replace it with what microsoft tries to call the 'third ecosystem' ie windows phone, which only reaches the pockets of less than 12 million people in the world, and is legitimately called at best, the 8th ecosystem.
nokia introduced the world's first optical zoom (ie real zoom) camera lens in 2006.
there is the basic phones unit, there is the newer smartphones unit, and there is the roots of nokia's telecoms business (many people do not know this, long before nokia made handsets, it was a telecoms networking equipment maker) which is now known as nokiasiemens networks.
ok, lets take the uae example (this is abu dhabi, dubai etc the oil-rich  emirates on the arabian peninsula).
remember that nokia's last succesful flagship - the n95 - handily outsold the iphone globally.
these six challenges are also the six principles of nsl.
the  smartphone apps portfolio is ranked only tied for 5th/6th highest priority for  buyers of new smartphones.
windows is why people talk of the 'microsoft minute' in the delays to boot up a pc.
even better than that, nokia's operating  system for smartphones, symbian, is so huge, it powers half of all smartphones  in use on the planet.
so, all you you  out there who are screaming for nokia to shift now to android.
if we assume one car-related subscription that comes with the new car when we buy it, to connect to the maps and security systems and self-diagnostics and on-board games etc - we only add 1 billion mobile subscriptions to the planet.
if they do, they are often linux based pcs (or have pirated microsoft software which may be very buggy etc).
nothing about it is a  nokia, except that the ceo has the nerve to stick a nokia badge on the phone  and claim it is a genuine nokia.
thats the  4th major smartphone player, and the third of fortune global 500 rivals to quit  the smartphones race.
it says a lot about nokia that symbian survived this transition where palm died and microsoft found the transition so difficult it killed off the windows mobile platform to launch a totally new one, called phone 7 - while its market share crashed from near 20% to 2% in just four years.
it may be difficult for older readers in the western industrialized countries who see the long lines of cameras and accessories sold at the electronics stores, yet the numbers are perfectly clear.
the mobile did cannibalize some of the fixed telecoms revenues (and skype probably took more of the fixed telecoms revenues than mobile) but today, the resulting combined telecoms industry is far bigger, about twice in size.
i have included their position also from the previous  list and revenues last time so you see how the growth or decline has been.
how is  that possible?
there is so much to an fortune global  500 sized company ceo job description that i cannot even start to imagine.
sure, like madonna said to wayne and garth, and monkeys might fly out of my butt.
how awesome is that  for mr elop, he gets the media attention for being the new guy, and he has a  wonderful story to tell, where he does not need to 'fix nokia' but rather just  elaborate clearly what nokia is doing.
it would still not be as thorough as any google search today, and it would take years to learn the skills and days of research in the library.
so today any symbian phone can do  full microsoft office fully and all its peripherals and apps.
they have not been afraid to abandon businesses that did not show promise for the future.
but you can't because the slab is high like a curb, and maybe you'll try to reach to turn off the ignition just as she starts to dive.
what are the profitable opportunities in mobile for a phone maker.
remember, for any ios media  partner - including any advertising, we need to add the other ios users, ipads  and ipod touch'es, so the total reach of the ios currently is about 240  million.
ahonen index - top 25 companies ranked by their mobile revenues rank (2010) .
the mobile opportunity developed new abilities beyond convergence, starting from sms and ringing tones more than a decade ago to augmented reality today.
if thats not enough for you,  there is the microsoft marketing machine.
with a bit  of rounding off, we are now at 43.6 billion.
i have given  you evidence and facts and stats and end-user surveys, showing what smartphone  users do, and what smartphone users want, and what other factors influence the  purchase decision ie the carrier relationshiops the corporate purchase  departments.
so mobile can  only influence a small part of the travel experience, whether in airplanes or  hotels or trains etc.
the mobile industry sells 1.3 billion new mobile phones every year (with a  replacement cycle of 17 months).
customer surveys  suggested only 2% of customers in the launch countries even considered a lumia.
did those analyst houses bother to give an updated forecast?
it may be difficult for older readers in the western  industrialized countries who see the long lines of cameras and accessories sold  at the electronics stores, yet the numbers are perfectly clear.
lg's strategic partership with microsoft bled the company profits into losses and lg ran to android.
the massive global market share dominance that windows and office have in the workplace.
all symbian needs, is to be good enough.
reason 7 - fails in  variety of models.
last night i got off a call which i say was interesting with a major telco that is interested in working with me and the principles ofno straight lines.
these cheap phones in 2009 had an average price of 100 dollars (that has come down since then).
will it decide some sales, maybe.
apple's iphone or indeed none of apple's products compete directly with 2/3 of nokia's business (the dumbphones and the networks).
sprint nextel, usa . . .
but yes: long blog warning!
the perfection in the camera shutter on the n93 or the  precision of the hinges on the e90 communicator or the sheer delight of  engineering bliss that is the slider/folder motion in the e7.
the sad thing is, that usually with new lines, nokia has done a pair, ie the n8 was the tablet style pure touch screen, and its sister model was the e7 with the qwerty slider.
maybe that is not a big surprise, they have been predicting the pocket computer for two decades already.. the media industries are more interesting.
but again, if we  need a car to get us from point a to point b, until they invent teleportation,  we will keep needing that car (or some rival like a bicycle or bus etc).
it adds your keys to your home and car, the pass-keys to your  office, your identity card, and now as the phone collects your payment  behavior, they have launched the mobile consierge to the phone, to help manage  your life.
suddenly in relation to the new technologies, the old habits and regulations become obstacles, the old services and infrastructures are found wanting, the old organisations and institutions inadequate.
yes,  even while switching to the newer os, and giving it more than a year for 'ramp  up'microsoft lost again half of what customers remained.
nokia's ovi was the world's second most  used app store just a year ago.
yet... years before there was an iphone app store, there was a nokia app store.
consider the other competing  advertising mass media.
nokia used to have the platinum-standard carrier relationships a year ago.
marketing, branding, design, price, distribution.
the uae became the first country to pass 200% mobile phone subscriptions per capita.
its the ultimate job for someone hungry to make a name as a miracle-maker in high tech.
whatever nokia was able to do in 2010,  today nokia will do far worse, whether in the usa or rest of the world.
he is not just a microsoft guy, he  was previously with several other it companies based in the usa.
but it was not until apple entered the mobile phone market with the iphone, that its profitability exploded.
and this is all before we start to enable my flight itself with mobile check-in, or the hotel does a mobile phone enabled locks to my hotel room etc.
the world's most sold  branded camera optics are not nikon or canon branded lenses, they are carl  zeiss optics, on many premium nokia cameraphones.
but sufficient to  say that clearly more than half of consumer uses of telling time - and of the  wake-up alarm - is now from the mobile phone.
such abilities  are impossible in traditional bookstores.
we may be growing 3-fold or even more than that.
and when the price is about the same, on the look and  feel, the lumia is the clear loser already in the store.
and in the uk, nokia was the phone brand with the highest loyalty (not the iphone or blackberry which were a lot in the news for big market  gains).
nokia's true rivals are samsung, motorola, lg, sonyericsson and zte - each of  those five makes both dumbphones and smartphones.
ios ethiopia . . . . . . .
compared to nokia's previous flagships and  current rivals.
is that the  same for a contract manufacturer with near slave labor in taiwan who make  phones and gadgets for dozens of companies?
note, at this time,  microsoft smartphones were made by samsung, lg and motorola - the top 3  bestselling phone brands of the usa - which did not experience a significant  change in their market shares!
in the global brand survey of 2010 by interbrand, nokia finished 8th best brand ahead of such icons as rolls royce, rolex, mercedes benz, porsche etc.
nokia smartphones used to come with a huge array of pre-loaded apps and the devices were overloaded with technological goodies.
and finally on the enterprise/business users.
it would not add to the total.
whatever you think of nokia's success in the past, whether you applaud it or are aghast, the performance of lumia will be worse.
remember, for any ios media partner - including any advertising, we need to add the other ios users, ipads and ipod touch'es, so the total reach of the ios currently is about 240 million.
no straight lines: making sense of our non-linear world available atamazon uk and amazon us ( paperback), ( kindle).no straight lines: making sense of our non-linear world available atamazon uk and amazon us ( paperback), ( kindle).
but in the emerging world countries, the price differential between models is far more value-driven.
the global picture tells the  same story.
it is the world's most popular smartphone too.
no: ex windows phone general manager at microsoft, charlie kindel,  who acknowledges that microsoft had further angered the carriers in 2011.
in rough terms the installed base of  s40 currently is more than 700 million, so when added together, symbian and s40  give nokia an addressable market potential of 1 billion mobile phone users  worldwide.
in fact, it has severe shortcomings with no foldering, so the more you install apps, the more cluttered and clumsy it becomes.
even  though nokia designed three very similar spec smartphones (and nokia has tons  of qwerty phones on symbian, s40 and meego operating systems).
so if we look at lego
nokia overall corporate profits grew .
and over time nokia management earned a reputation that you could count on nokia's word.
not everybody will return lumias.
microsoft used  its scale to crush apple, even where mac was always better.
so by december 2013, the world will have about 111 million windows phone smartphones in use.
but cloudtalk asked what one thing smartphone owners would most want to  improve -90% of us smartphone owners said they would want better  sms text messaging!
we know the market share  crashed, sales revenues crashed and nokia profits vanished.
nokia has traditionally been able to hold to the world's largest smartphone market share - a year ago nokia was literally not just bigger than the iphone, it was bigger than the iphone and all samsung smartphones - combined.
and we've seen 4 deaths  already.
they pay very  close attention to every player in the market.
and also we are therefore presented with a design challenge:  how do we create better societies, more able organisations and, more vibrant  and equitable economies relevant to the world we live in today?
that is nothing new, once there was a huge need of typing skills at major offices, typing pools, before the word processor and email made most of their typing work redundant.
but why  none of its strategies worked was  because the company took too long and  sat on its duff watching digital photography come and eat it for a mid-day  snack even though kodak r&d helped with the digital photo revolution when  it launched the first digital camera in 1975.
nokia did the (non japan/non-s korea) world's first 8mp cameraphone and first 12mp cameraphone.
but the population of the planet today is 6.8 billion people in 2010.
his actionsmust be investigated as a breach of his fiduciary duty to nokia  shareholders.
this is not proof of an os that is  ready for prime time.
in countries like pakistan and bangladesh the  electrical grid is shut off several times.. per day .. to conserve energy.
the reality is that recently the iphone market share has been declining (four quarters in a row) where nokia's market share held steady or actually grew.
and the nsn unit is a drain on profitability, even if they manage miniscule profits in the unit.
telecom italia  mobile, italy * . . .
it was a hard choice for chairman jorma ollila and his board, but once that decision was made, they did need a new ceo.
we actually have  another issue with the homes too.
the blogosphere is  very upset with nokia - perhaps less so with microsoft as it seems to be par  for the course.
but these colors are garish.
funny to say that, one billion is not much...
we thought that each household would have 6  connected gadgets.
he damages the nokia version (or in this case sells it).this destroys a nokia native advantage  'in a war of ecosystems' and instead brings nokia ever more to  the full control of microsoft, as its slave.
and obviously my view  already now as we await the nokia q4 numbers for lumia is, that based on his  behavior in the past year, elop has mismanaged his company so totally, that he  may not be allowed to continue running nokia.
apple surrendered to nokia and  now pays nokia not just for every iphone made, but apple also paid a lump sum  to compensate nokia for the patent infringements of early iphones.
the (former) director general of the bbc  said that all broadcast content will be available on mobile (and bbc's  successful iplayer is a perfect example of how a broadcaster can take a big  slice out of the digital convergence into mobile).
no matter what any expert may have said about how obsolete symbian was or how horrible ovi store was or how bad the software was, the one thing everybody agrees about nokia, its build quality has always - always - been the best in the world.
but i see that instantly for all airlines.
so i argue, to survive organisations have to disrupt themselves before someone else does it to them.
the uae became the first country to pass  200% mobile phone subscriptions per capita.
and when you think about it, if google's android has about 45% and apple's iphone between 15% and 20%, then if nokia and microsoft can get 20% - game on.
so if we count nokia branded qt ecosystem potential reach, it is well in excess of 1 billion pockets.
and as a bonus the job came with being ceo of microsoft, the biggest operating system that ran on all those pcs?
in the first five months of elop's stewardship, nokia's share price had grown by 11%.
a few years ago there was a big battle of will the internet win or the mobile?
they are not as good as (when considering the touch screen only) as the iphone is - but who is, honestly, this is comparing a ferrari to a toyota for goodness sake - but nokia's touch screen phones are getting better every generation.
whatever success or lack therof, you have seen of nokia in the business/enterprise space, that will do worse on lumia and windows phone, not better.
that doesn't matter, we now have an ex microsoft executive,
some classic smartphone vendors and systems (palm, microsoft) have suffered in trying to cope with this shift.
similarly hp, which bought palm (but has since discontinued  that business) didn't make it to the top 25.
nokia's ovi was the world's second most used app store just a year ago.
he gave10 reasons why  windows phone will fail.
and even then, as  each company involved a lot of digging through their annual reports, it took me  forever to get it done.
you will fling a couple of birds angrily  at some pigs and no doubt say 'apps'.
this means lumia is worse off than nokia was before the elop effect.
if the consumer wants to buy a stand-alone mp3 player, that will  then have very particular music needs, and that person will definitely own a  smartphone also, towards the second half of this decade.
its not only the biggest fall ever witnessed in any one year by a global brand leader in technology such as computers or home electronics etc.
even  blackberry has been seeing declines in market share.
mobile  cannot cannibalize the whole car market like it can't cannibalize the air  travel market or the hotel industry etc.
this ecosystem of symbian and s40,  plus nokia's other current and past os platforms like meego and maemo; plus  nokia's upcoming low-cost smartphone os, meltemi, are all supposed to be  supported by the qt developer tools of nokia.
if lumia sales are below 4 million, lumia has  failed to an unacceptable degree.
it bought siemens's giant but loss-making networking unit, and turned it around and now nokiasiemens networks makes some profits, in a sector of the industry where profits are very rare to see.
its very very bloody in the smartphone wars.
what if you find out that your 'genuine' ferrari was not  actually manufactured in a ferrari factory in maranello italy.
posted by alan moore at 11:45 am in 7th mass media, books, carriers / operators, convergence, ecosystem, emerging world, engagement marketing, m-commerce, m-govt m-edu & m-health, mobile data & m-web, strategy | permalink | comments (7) | trackback (0) technorati tags: alan moore, ambiguity, complexity, innovating business, mobile, no straight lines, non-linear design, non-linear thinking, openness, smlxl, the future of business, the future of mobile
and add to that the android installed base (qt supports android) and potentially blackberry (the new blackberry os will be compatible with qt) - the nokia 'first ecosystem' if built around qt has a potential reach of more than 1.35 billion mobile phone users (more than 5x bigger than the total ios ecosystem or the android ecosystem; more than 12 times bigger than the total blackberry ecosystem and more than 100 times bigger than the windows phone).
advertising goes  where the media audiences go.
and nokia is also a smartphone maker - the biggest in the industry, with the best-selling smartphone os as well.
even microsoft executives  acknowledge this as a fact.
which brings us to the nokia magic with microsoft office suite integration.
and they  manage this profitably.
the chief executive officer of nokia had lost the trust of the  owners of the company, and therefore, could not really sustain the trust of the  board either.
lets connect these all to 3g networks.
contrast that with the 2.1 billion people with a banking account as reported by the bbc last year.
sharp and j-phone of japan launched the world's first cameraphone in 2000.
the victims of natural and man-made disasters will not be accumulating multiple it devices.. 50 billion is not plausible
the fourth most important factor is themodel of the smartphone handset of any given brand.
so a quick review of where we  stand.
norway was the first country to let you submit your tax return by mobile.
to be a  viable option for the nearly half of consumers who do insist on a physical  qwerty keyboard on their phones.
we are looking at the biggest economic prize of our lifetimes, and it is 'in play' as we speak, with fortune 500 giants like nokia, apple, google, hewlett-packard, vodafone, microsoft, sony, samsung etc all angling to be one of the winners in this ultimate race of the decade, perhaps even the race of the century.
and new  digital formats emerged like the ringing tone and ringback tones, which now  deliver a third of the total global consumer spending on music worldwide.
pocket music players including the ipod sell about  127 million units (same source for all).
so by faulty leap of logic, many see that nokia is somehow 'losing to iphone' (or android or blackberry).
i have said for many  years now, that we have yet another 'dimension' in this race, of a major  economic sector headed to mobile: money.
hearing about kodaks resignation and demise  also got me thinking about nokia, and indeed other organisations and industries  that struggle and fail as they were unable to adjust to what was them an  ambiguous world.
nokia voluntarily abandons nearly half of the addressable market and instead - forces, forces all lumias to be compared to iphones (rather than compared to blackberries).
that to me speaks excellent management in very difficult conditions.
the sad fact is, that on qwerty the keyboard  on the e7 is truly magnificent.
and managements at very big global corporations do make  investment decisions and product commitment decisions based on some very  serious calculations.
obviously the global utter collapse of nokia smartphone sales is partially a symptom of this problem (and other problems).
the carriers/operators know they  need the handsets, and smarpthones need operating systems to run.
what is ahead of  the selection of apps and the operating system in selecting smartphones in the  industrialized world?
if you were in the it industry in the early 1990s, and  you were given the job of ceo of dell, the world's biggest pc maker - and with  it came the job of toshiba, the world's biggest laptop pc maker - where the  bulk of the revenues were in desktops (dell) and the future of pcs and more of  the profits, was in laptops.
this was a pc  maker company with a tiny global market share of about 3%, that made corporate  losses in the mid 1990s, that found new profits by selling premium luxury  smartphones.
but 10-fold in one decade?
palm (but re-birth via hp), google nexus one, microsoft kin and now  vodafone.
i did a meticulous calculation of the futility of investing in apps today, and showed with rigorous analysis and facts that half of developers of paid apps will not make a profit in less than 11 years, and for the free apps (ie used in advertising and marketing) the prospects are far worse than that even.
there are many more industries, more small ones, that also are impacted by mobile, like cameras, music, videogaming, the watches and clocks industry etc, but those are so small (all under 100 billion dollars in size) that i won't spend much time on them now.
mobile cannot cannibalize the whole car market like it can't cannibalize the air travel market or the hotel industry etc.
its quite feasible for samsung or htc to spam nokia branded smartphones via the windows phone ad platform.
such abilities are impossible in traditional bookstores.
what is even more insidious and will  damage nokia's tattered reputation considerably, is the revellation that nokia  and microsoft executives have been going to blogsites to argue with reviews if  they were negative about lumia.
nokia knows how to do that.
and in microsoft's best country market - the usa - when supported by each of the three bestselling phone brands of the us, and its biggest non-proprietary smartphone brand htc - yetmicrosoft's windows brand was so poisonous, that half of its customer base churned away from microsoft.
i could tell you that a gambler left las vegas with 100,000 dollars in his pocket.
the usa relationships were particularly damaged.
what of the emerging world where 5.8 billion people live, where 75% of all mobile phones are sold, and now half of all smartphones are sold.
symbian is plagued with fragmentation (although it was getting less so) and android is seeing more and more of it.
i started today's morning preparing to come back to work and my mind was buzzing with thoughts of the truly big picture.
if nokia abandoned all that leadership,  and surrendered to the whims of google, that would be a colossal mistake.
so, even three years from now, the  microsoft windows phone os family will have only about 5% market share.
symbian supports such vital business needs as.. folder (windows phone does not) and full multitasking and the transfers of apps and files via bluetooth.
by divesting nsn, nokia could focus more  on its core business - related to handsets - and instantly get a jump on the  profitability of the company.
he is in breach  of stock market regulations and clearly hasacted with a confict of interest.
they don't like it, but they will do it, if there is money.
so in sum about nokia today, it is the biggest, most dominant dumbphone maker.
yes, symbian too has lost  market share, but very little.
or the number of apps in the app store.
bright ferrari red, the prancing horse logo and all.
so i argue, to survive  organisations have to disrupt themselves before someone else does it to them.
even the lumia 710 is just a cheaper lame version of the lumia 800.
that has even been measured across the differences of the wealthy countries of the industrialized world, and the less-affluent smartphone buyers in the emerging world.
if you don't  know the history of how devastating microsoft has been to its 'strategic  partners' in mobile, like the vampire, its bled them dry.
so, earlier this week, we had the very first major industry analyst house issue a fresh, post elop effect, forecast for nokia and microsoft windows phone.
why  doesn't elop fix this at nokia, nokia has a far wider reach in countries where  mobile advertising is often the only mass market advertising medium.
it was not designed by  nokia's top designers from finland.
to be a viable option for the nearly half of consumers who do insist on a physical qwerty keyboard on their phones.
nokia has  taken its customer base and walked it in front of a firing squad, and shot it  dead.
that changed last year when the advertising industry woke  up seriously to mobile.
yes, its share price has taken a battering recently, but even then - in the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, when all rival giant global handset makers stumbled, nokia came through with flying colors, its handset unit profitable every single quarter.
if you really  love your qwerty look, you won't even consider these lumias.
they say that windows phone  would reach about 37 million unit sales this year and 64 million in 2013.
they are hoping and praying that nobody ever ever mentions their absurd forecasts again.
nokia's touch screen interface will not need to be 'better' than the iphone - nor even 'as good as' the iphone, as long as nokia's touch screen interface is 'good enough'.
this is  strict definition mobile and for apple that means iphone and related revenues  only (but does include iphone app store related revenues too)
i will be most happy to be proven wrong, but just please do take some sanity checks on the assumptions.
nokia has a robust and good mobile phones-optimized smartphone os called symbian, a fully open source os supported by dozens of handset manufacturers.
since then the global  smartphone market has grown by 60%.
they only sell 2% of the world's total mobile phone handset market today, but its such a huge market, that it powers the majority of apple's revenues and the majority of apple's profits.
$ 45 b ( $ 66 b) . . .
when did nokia go mad i happen to know the mobile advertising side of the mobile content and media industry quite well, as i was the first person to discuss commercially launched mobile ads at any international conference (in austria) literally within weeks after they had launched (in finland in year 2000).
nokia didn't need to pay one penny to apple.
did nokia bother to put a qwerty keyboard onto its  first three lumia phones?
and while some companies are often in the news, like say microsoft, a big giant  in the it industry, by its mobile revenues, microsoft isn't even close to  entering the chart.
that is the nokia mid-price smartphone.
we just heard from christmas electronics sales in the usa, that digital camera sales and videocam sales had fallen catastrophically - because consumers were switching their camera and video capture to their smartphones.
and what does lumia offer.
even microsoft executives acknowledge this as a fact.
$ 55 b ( $ 55 b) . . .
i do not know anything  about stephen elop except that he's a canadian, he ran microsoft's office unit  and championed cloud computing at microsoft.
that made the smartphone space one of the most competitive of any industries on the planet, with probably more global giant rivals than any other industry ever in the same space.
imagine one day when  every car is connected.
symbian (above adapted from statcounter data from november 29, 2011, as  reported by browserrank.com)
including skype (windows phone does not support skype).
i have no idea how many household pets there are, but i think its safe to say, the proportion of pets is far less than the total number of households, even as some households may have more than one pet.
you can read briefly about  the other six here -6 challenges for a non-linear world.
morgan stanley forecasts that in 2012 nokia will sell 40 million symbian based smarphones so the total for 2012 for nokia is 77 million.
while nokia and microsoft have been repeating the 20% numbers from those big analyst houses, as recently as october of 2011, the reality is, that those numbers are not news in october.
no part of the car has ever seen the country  of forza ferrari!
so these are all very  early in the game.
if anything, nokia was known as the brand that did sms texting just about as well as it could be done.
... zero more smarpthones into the enterprise space.
xphone, ballmerphone, redmondo.
apple brought a new era to pcs (but was unable to capture a major part of that new world).
the fourth shift in smartphones is the price trend to the sub-100 dollar smartphone for the mass market.
that is hard to find, and most rivals who tried to do the synergy  route, have abandoned it - ericsson, motorola, siemens (used to be a top 5  handset maker, it abandoned its handsets unit first to focus just on networks,  in the past decade).
the n8 was so good, that the first side-by-side test with htc's titan ii - with a 16mp camera, and the n8 produced better pictures.
sms is the most valued and most used service on mobile phones in every market -  even the usa is now in that state, so said the usa's own ctia the cellular  telecoms industry association in 2009.
funny to say that, one billion is not much...  but yes,  adding cars, we're at 21.4 billion so far.
the decision to sell the mobile  advertising unit at nokia wascertainly not to the best interests of  nokia and nokia's ecosystem.
that means apple is consigned to being a tiny nicheplayer which has a global market share of 2% of all phones sold (14% of all smartphones).
all is not peachy so far its been a love-fest here with the communities dominate blog admiring nokia..
the handset industry is  different from the pc industry or home electronics, in that the  carriers/operators decide which phone succeeds and which fails (witness the  short-lived microsoft kin).
stepping back – seeing the world more holistically – as a  system it requires deep listening to move from being unaware to aware
and then just make sure as ceo, that those  profits will now turn into growth again, as the economy improves - and probably  with some strategic decisions about focus areas.
symbian philippines .
and yes, symbian is an open source os (something apple and rim and  microsoft are not), it is supported by 4 of the world's 10 largest mobile phone  handset makers (apple and rim are not used by any other makers) and most  tellingly of all - in the world's most advanced mobile phone market - japan -  symbian powers half of all smartphones sold there (it is the os used by ntt  docomo for almost all of its smartphones).
forbes said windows phone would have less patent wars.
we will easily double from today's 5 billion during  this next decade, easily!
there is no hdmi out.
nokia will never generate as huge profit margins as apple, but if nokia's profits turn now from decline into growth - then stephen elop will be seen as the savior, the miracle-maker, the man who defeated the apple iphone challenge and saved nokia.
i think this phone has too much fragmentation, i'd like another phone with a bit less fragmentation?
so that is why i want to start with the consumer market where almost 4 out of 5 smartphones are sold.
but.. the burning platforms memo  is 1 year old.
nokia was studying the mobile advertising opportunity more than a decade ago, so much, that they had an internal unit looking at it (modest in size at the time) and nokia had commissioned a global study about mobile advertising in 2001, long before most thought that ads served to our pockets were even commercially plausible.
and you are not quite  familiar with all ferrari models, so you then talk with your friend and then  you go to the internet to see the actual details about this particular ferrari  model.
but while tech analysts marvel at the iphone (and androids  now), the touch screen is not the only 'preferred' form factor, nor the  'decisive' purchase criterion.
in the 'west' we have pcs at work and home.
elop has been trying to sell the nokiasiemens networking unit and is currently trying to sell the vertu luxury phones unit.
and as a bonus the job came with being ceo of  microsoft, the biggest operating system that ran on all those pcs?
so that was the 'old' microsoft mobile.
but what of the reviews.
lets  work on the upside and say, on average there is a pet in one third of all  households (my guess is that the number is smaller but no doubt someone among  our readers will know it).
there are those who say 'but tomi, the iphone, the app stores, the software/internet side of phones'.
it has only passed 50,000 apps.
in no straight lines - it is necessary to explore new organisational possibilites that also relate to the relevancy of comercial organisations in todays world - their sustainability and their social impact.
yes, some will love it, but most not.
this is  what smartphone owners in the usa, britain, spain, australia, germany, france,  canada, singapore etc have said.
and that is not even before we look at the apps.
posted by alan moore at 11:28 am in books, business users, carriers /  operators, convergence, ecosystem, engagement marketing, m-commerce, m-govt  m-edu & m-health, social networking, strategy | permalink | comments (0) |  trackback (0) technorati tags: business, data, design, entreprenurship, innovation, open, open data, open innovation, platforms, transformation january 13, 2012
and readers, this is again one of those ultra-long tomi ahonen essays, about 16,000 words (more than a full chapter in a hardcover book) so go get yourself a good cup of coffee before you start.
but as this blog is a mobile industry blog, it does make sense to put the big companies in context, especially across the operators, handset makers and infrastructure providers.
follow him on twitter as @tomiahonen.
nokia was perfectly poised to fight for this low-cost price segment with symbian, because symbian was designed to work on very modest technological requirements and often these ultra-low cost smartphones are not touch screen devices.
and yes, symbian is an open source os (something apple and rim and microsoft are not), it is supported by 4 of the world's 10 largest mobile phone handset makers (apple and rim are not used by any other makers) and most tellingly of all - in the world's most advanced mobile phone market - japan - symbian powers half of all smartphones sold there (it is the os used by ntt docomo for almost all of its smartphones).
i counted that in 2006 there were 7 of the fortune global 500 biggest companies on the plant, who made a smartphone.
it would be an interesting market analysis to count all gaming-oriented smartphones (like the iphone, most downloaded apps are games after all, the iphone can be said to be the first globally successful gaming phone platform to rival the nintendo and playstation portable..) and their value into the videogaming software value, the proportion would be bigger still.
so if you thought that perhaps the internet was threatening your business, that may be a short-lived threat, say for industries already feeling the full threat like bookstores or video rentals or music stores or travel agencies etc.
ford once sold more than half  of all cars manufactured on the planet yes, but in no country was there a ford  in the garages of 25% of the total population.
he is a north american, he knows the way to talk to north american press and analysts and investors - that is where most of nokia shares are held.
58% and 53% respectively used  the camera.
the issues range from network coverage to service reliability to network  technology to service offering and pricing etc.
yes, nokia should be able to do better than it is doing, but every other big 5 handset maker has seen either quarterly losses, or severely declining profits in the past few years, including nokia's nearest true rival - samsung.
is  it the services model (cloud computing etc) or the app store.
nokia cultivated the partnership model  with its app store, ovi, and its content and its networked services such as  maps, advertising, mobile payments etc.
kodak, minolta, polaroid, konica and so many other major camera industry players had to abandon the camera related business and shift to something else like professional imaging or scientific instrumentation or photocopiers or whatever, or else go bankrupt - like polaroid has done, twice already.
note, at this time, microsoft smartphones were made by samsung, lg and motorola - the top 3 bestselling phone brands of the usa - which did not experience a significant change in their market shares!
a billion may seem like a "big number" to  those who don't understand mobile, but hey, crazy frog the ringing tone - yes  just one - one - ringing tone - sold half a billion dollars - in paid downloads  to mobile phone users - in one year - three years before apple even opened up  its app store.
that was a short-lived battle that  was over in only 3 years.
and nokia owned the low-cost smartphone  space.
this is what i found: reason 1 - messaging madness: nokia has a natural strength in  messaging-oriented smartphones (the most used feature of all mobile phone  owners from africa to the usa is messaging, including smartphone owners).
today top phones support at least 64 gb microsd (and probably even bigger).
microsoft has good brands such as xbox and office suite but its windows brand is weak and in mobile, it is poisonous.
nokia's brand has been  damaged very badly in the past year.
the myth of the iphone replacing the blackberry is, alas, quite  premature.
you cannot win the world that way.
so i don't foresee sim cards in chicken or pigs or sheep..
they try to erase the known unknowns.
apple can focus exclusively on its super-premium luxury smartphone, the iphone,  releasing only one new model per year, putting all its effort to create genuine  most-desirable masterpieces, much like a ferrari or porsche in cars.
he has sold  various nokia assets from several sets of nokia's prime patents, to a whole  handset factory in romania.
this carnage has all been a self-induced wound, and it started with  theelop effect, but elop has added to the problems continuously ever since.
no antennagates at nokia.
there are literally thousands of news stories parroting that 20% number and the third ecosystem baloney.
many rivals have fm radio today.
coming  from microsoft's unit looking at the future of the pc side, cloud computing etc  - will give particular insights into what kind of synergies may be useful in  the near future - in evaluating the value of nsn to nokia as a strategic asset,  or whether they try to get rid of it now while it is marginally profitable.
elop took that growth and torpedoed it, and for 2011 nokia global market share collapsed from 29% in q4 of 2010 to about 12% in q4 of 2011 (we will know when nokia releases its q4 results shortly).
but its still tiny bits in small countries.
reason 13 -  poisoned carrier relationships with microsoft.
a survey of nearly 2,000 consumers of the uk mobile phone market by right mobile phone found that the mobile phone brand is more influential in deciding the next phone, than the carrier/operator brand.
so the internet has migrated 50% in 13 years.
yes, there are cows  that are called to milk via an old mobile phone or beeper hanging on their  neck, and when the cow hears the arrival of sms (or the ringing of a phone call  - no danger, the cow won't answer so there won't be billable calling traffic to  the farmer) the cow knows to come home to be milked.
the modern way to do utilities metering is with a  digital meter, connected wirelessly to the network.
just like in cars, consumer preferences in mobile phones are very diverse.
if we split  that by weeks, its 1,000 trees cut per week.
this is when the  futility of bothering to create wp7 versions becomes obvious.
or take the global internet and all  its revenues out of google adwords and broadband fees etc, all of the internet  revenues - and multiply that by 20.
ntt docomo, japan *  . . . . . . .
nokia's flagship phones have always, always had the best cameraphones (japan, s korea blah-blah-blah).
it was inherently better.
and  nokia is known for a lot in this area.
elop single-handedly  wiped out nokia's demand in february 2011.
and nokia's basic handset (dumbphones) unit is also profitable, and while its networking unit had struggled for a few years after nokia bought the loss-making networking unit from former giant rival siemens, nokia networking management very efficiently turned that loss-making business around, and now the combined entity is profitable - albeit only marginally so.
the decision to sell the mobile advertising unit at nokia wascertainly not to the best interests of nokia and nokia's ecosystem.
it is the proverbial dead horse.
i do think that the very superficial view to stephen elop's past suggest he could be a great ceo for nokia.
apple does it thumbing its  nose at industry standards and quarrels with major players like its  long-standing feud with adobe flash.
it will probably take you half an hour to complete this  article but i promise you, it is stuffed with facts, stats, insights and  goodies.
it is very likely that the current new  about-to-be released version is good enough (that powers the n8) but even if  its not quite there yet, nokia will keep evolving and improving the touch  screen parts of the os, and will become good enough, soon enough.
they dream of buying a  bicycle to improve their lifestyle.
this ecosystem of symbian and s40, plus nokia's other current and past os platforms like meego and maemo; plus nokia's upcoming low-cost smartphone os, meltemi, are all supposed to be supported by the qt developer tools of nokia.
then it is time to think what to replace it with?
cnn for example was promoting its symbian  smartphone app worldwide on countless daily ads on all cnn channels.
we get vastly superior services for consumers when we seek opportunties out of digital services.
not so often the actual inventor (japan's ntt  docomo has most true inventions in the mobile space), but being the fast  follower, nokia was well picking winning concepts (cameraphones, consumer  smartphones) but made its stumbles too (n-gage).
microsoft may do this some day.
camera, psp so  then we have the other stand-alone digital gadgets, like the advanced digital  cameras by canon, nikon etc; or the portable gaming systems like the nintendos  and playstatoin portables.
nokia unattributed executive said  lumia sales were "getting good traction" and "we are pleased  with the early results".
nokia is offering ever cheaper 'africa phones'  and keeps providing features and abilites that many rivals ignore, specific to  the less wealthy customers - replacable batteries, critical in countries of  poor electricity supply - in-built fm radios - surprisingly for many in the  poorest countries the first ever fm radio they have owned, is the one that  comes with the new nokia phone.
hey, that was only half  of the world of smartphone sales.
i also like the guidance by the mobilists and futurists, who look at the past decade, observe that mobile grew 10-fold in that decade, faster than any other technology of significant size - and then to argue that the same rate of growth would continue this decade, another full decade of growth of 10-fold.
so, last year with only normal launch, with a tight schedule which could  not be changed (the n8 and s^3 were delayed to an embarrassing degree), with  only modest marketing budget (nokia had just recovered from a quarterly loss)
the practise is ending, but there are still phones  in the pipeline that don't allow battery changes - like the lumia 900.
yes, from small things,  big things can grow.
in reality that is a market anomaly that applies to north america only, where only 8% of the planet's mobile phones are sold.. nokia utterly dominates the rest of the world (with the exception of those countries where strong domestic rivals control that country, south korea, japan and yes, the usa).
it will be a big battle for this decade  and for the banking and credit cards, that will last well into the next decade,  but the convergence is inevitable.
we have looked at how consumers use smartphones, and what are currently the top things that decide which smartphone we buy next.
sounds very plausible.
and the buyer has worked  far more for that dollar than we have had to for our dollar.
then we have issues with poverty, with illiteracy (800 million people  of reading age are illiterate worldwide - illiterates will not need a laptop  surely, and probably won't have much need of more than one phone in most  cases), with wars, famines, and refugees.
samsung does just on its  galaxy series the obvious iphone clone basic slab touch screen versions of  almost exactly iphone physical size; and then offers the galaxy indulge with  the qwerty slider; the galaxy beam with the pico projector; and the galaxy note  with its gigantic screen.
beyond the networks, looking at phones, while rim and apple are pure smartphone makers (in the telecoms industry), nokia is not.
as i witnessed when i delivered my keynote to the mobile marketing  association global event in the meccha of advertising, manhattan of the mad men  of madison avenue haha, the big global ad agencies are all ramping up their  competences in mobile, and i am witnessing it myself with far greater interest  now in my mobile marketing workshops and seminars, such as delivering a keynote  to the big mma event in sao paulo this week.
if you always wanted a ferrari but couldn't afford it, perhaps you bought  yourself a toyota mr 2 sportscar or a ford mustang.
the big prize 5 trillion dollars
same with the n9 (pure touch screen) and its sister the n950 (with qwerty slider).
note, the car may have  multiple subscriptions, as we may for example use our normal phone service,  take out the sim card from the phone and insert it into the car's sim card  slot.
reason 11 - rejected by business/enterprise customers.
in india for example nokia was toppled in 2011 from being the topmost brand.
google mobile (+ motorola)
will it matter, of course it will.
so lets look at it in terms of size.
if they do,  they are often linux based pcs (or have pirated microsoft software which may be  very buggy etc).
the hideously stripped nature of the feature set of the lumia line is screaming for rejection.
we have looked at how consumers use smartphones, and what are  currently the top things that decide which smartphone we buy next.
by 2003, more cameraphones were sold globally than all stand-alone digital cameras.
hence the phone call i was now getting from the telco.
similarly now, the touch screen smartphone era.
so doing your microsoft business  solution is far better on a symbian e-series phone than with windows phone!
what price  ticket would i have gotten, on what airline combination, and what miserable  layaways on the travel connections?
in smartphones nokia's market share fell from 29% in q4 of 2010, to 12% of q4 of 2011.
if elop is only an average manager, he will  achieve 6.4 million in his sleep.
social media  marketing: how data analytics helps to monetize the user base in telecoms,  social networks, media and advertising in a converged ecosystem alan's third book: no straight lines alan moore: no straight lines blogroll
at the start of 2010, there were 23 companies  that had either launched or were launching a smartphone, out of the fortune  global 500.
the biggest country by population is china.
$ 19 b ( $ 18 b) . . . .
once they bother to count, to do the basic math, and see that there are about  190 million android users worldwide, about 120 million iphone users (and about  170 million ios users when we add ipad and ipod touch); and over 300 million  symbian users; and about 100 million blackberry users - and only about 5  million windows phone users.
i have written time and again, that nokia was struggling in 2009 to 2010, and fired its ceo kallasvuo, replacing him with elop.
including skype  (windows phone does not support skype).
no, cows won't get us there.
but nokia is the gorilla in the room, when it comes to the mobile industry.
we get vastly superior  services for consumers when we seek opportunties out of digital services.
imagine one day when every car is connected.
i  took the 13 most relevant areas which cover consumer phones and  business/enterprise phones; across the rich world and the emerging world.
he must be fired for cause and any nokia board members who do not  support an immediate investigation of elop should be themselves investigated  for collusion, neglect or incompetence.
it is very likely that the current new about-to-be released version is good enough (that powers the n8) but even if its not quite there yet, nokia will keep evolving and improving the touch screen parts of the os, and will become good enough, soon enough.
this is not the target market for new mobile phone subscriptions.
but the vast majority of nokia's business still today, is in 'dumbphones' ie  the basic phones and the featurephones like say a cameraphone or a musicphone.
the system is very restrictive and limiting.
we take electricity for granted.
hard as in people are only recognised as consumers, and the key objective is to maximise arpu, by whatever means possible.
since then the global smartphone market has grown by 60%.
posted by tomi t ahonen at 04:38 pm in africa, app stores, asia, blackberry ,bloodbath, business users, carriers / operators, china, chinese handsets, convergence, dumbphones, ecosystem, elop, emerging world, europe, finland, india ,iphone, market share, marketing (classic 4 ps), mobile money, nokia, profits, revenues, samsung, smartphone, sms, statistics, strategy, usa | permalink | comments (61) | trackback (0)
while that may not technically be true, it will be a far better story for the  nokia pr people to spin, than the past year of explaining why the n8 was again  delayed...
stored on the phone - all messages, pictures, phonebook etc.
consider the other competing advertising mass media.
this now is again worsened as we hear for example from  europe that nokia was bullying carriers about commitments to sell lumia in q4  etc.
today only two of them continue making cameras,  canon and nikon - which both quickly shifted their focus from consumer snapshot  cameras to premium professional and semi-pro camera systems.
sure  they will be important, sure.
$ 27 b ( $ 24 b) . . . .
this now is again worsened as we hear for example from europe that nokia was bullying carriers about commitments to sell lumia in q4 etc.
as carlota perez argues in her booktechnological revolution  and financial capital, when the economy is shaken by a powerful set of new opportunities with  the emergence of the next technological revolution, society is still strongly  wedded to the old paradigm and its institutional framework.
$ 24 b ( $ 25 b)  . . . .
it is hard to avoid articles that talk about microsoft and nokia, that do not mention the promised nirvana of the 'third ecosystem'.
if there are 5.1 billion mobile phone subscribers on the planet - and the option is to be the best-selling phone for that part which is 285 million of those - or the remaining part which is 4.815 billion mobile phone users - nokia has focused correctly.
lets add in the symbian sales and see.
the windows phone os forces the standard buttons on the touch screen that crowd out part of the screen permanently and the other controls are pretty lame.
no  credit cards etc needed).
in the usa, the television market is the  biggest advertising market and the biggest mass medium.
the key to unlocking this opportunity, so we can design for transformation is through understanding the interlocking concepts of the six key principles of no straight lines, these are: [1] ambiguity [2] adaptiveness
remember, the old windows mobile was built to be business-oriented (as was symbian originally).
and the technology need not have a cellular connection, the more logical way of doing this is to coordinate with the home connectivity center (a home wifi connection center and/or femtocell for example).
telenor mobil, norway *  . . . . . .
and the production.. get this.
the last vestige of nokia strongholds - its superb build quality - is now  jeopardized and indeed, first evidence of problems already not just reported -  but acknowledged by microsoft and nokia!
nokia had been in the top 10 for the past decade, as high as 4th best brand in the world.
well, actually that number is implausible because of the  lack of electricity.
i have not seen any recent nokia organizational  charts, but probably there is room to cut some areas that drain managment  resources but deliver little value to the bottom line.
by  definition, all new born humans between 2010 and 2020 will still be pre-teens  by the end of the decade.
the lumia is a failure and it will get worse.
you would have to be a colossal idiot to mess this launch up .
but  the population of the planet today is 6.8 billion people in 2010.
obviously the year has not been kind in the over-competitive smartphones bloodbath (google and microsoft very visibly quit the smartphone handset business already, but both are increasing their software and services focus on mobile, so they have not abandoned the opportunity in digital convergence).
you will fling a couple of birds angrily at some pigs and no doubt say 'apps'.
the basic phone is becoming a commodity product, and if we plot the price of basic phones with moore's law, by the end of this decade, a cheap cameraphone for africa will cost 1 dollar.
if we now assume all 6.8  billion people on the planet get a mobile wallet/mobile banking service that  adds yet one more sim card, we do reach the 50 billion number.
what do you do if 92% of your loyal customers reject your new toy (lumia) how many lumia sales?
at only 9.99 euros, the  unrestricted pdf based ebook is formated for the smartphone screen so you can  have the stats in your pocket every day.
i've told the story of modern forestry management, where  trees are tagged with devices containing gps-gsm chips, for intelligent digital  forest management.
except that where cow  herds can be big, cows are herding animals, so all the farmer needs to do, is  connect the lead cow, and the others will follow.
i know there are many who are interested in my view about nokia's new ceo.
the  music industry was slow to get into this opportunity and there were many  problems along the way - witness crazy frog.
tomi t ahonen: mobile as 7th of the mass media: cellphone, cameraphone, iphone, smartphone tomi t ahonen & jim o'reilly: digital korea: convergence of broadband internet, 3g cell phones etc tomi t. ahonen & alan moore: communities dominate brands tomi t. ahonen, timo kasper & sara melkko: 3g marketing: communities and strategic partnerships also as kindle edition tomi t. ahonen: m-profits: making money from 3g services tomi t ahonen & joe barrett (editors): services for umts:
nokia unattributed executive said lumia sales were "getting good traction" and "we are pleased with the early results".
apple makes its iphones very similar to each other.
and google are not alone among internet giants believing in a mobile  future.
so yes, this is a brave attempt.
the nokia strength has been exceptional qwerty keyboards.
have all but disappeared, and apple's iphone took big losses the past few quarters.
the camera utility is limited and restricted.
the touch screen phone was not invented by apple, nokia had its first touch screen phone out years before the iphone.
they are not as good as (when considering the touch screen only) as the  iphone is - but who is, honestly, this is comparing a ferrari to a toyota for  goodness sake - but nokia's touch screen phones are getting better every  generation.
in other  words — the company isn’t fat in a traditional sense.
in india and much of africa the access to  electricity is so rare, that people often send the spare batteries to nearby  towns or villages to be recharged (while using the other spare battery to power  the phone).
like they say in africa, mobile is not the 7th mass medium, its not the  first mass medium; it is the only mass medium.
if lumia sales are below 4 million, lumia has failed to an unacceptable degree.
notice that after  'learning apple lessons' giants like google, microsoft and vodafone - have not  been able to crack their way into this market.
the tiles are a gimmick but mostly are only an update of widgets that have existed on such 'burning platforms obsolete' operating systems as nokia's symbian.
we're almost there... pets
but thats not the full picture.
and personalized recommendations.
but it actually regressed.
so  while yes, we can probably imagine 4 or 5 household gadgets today that could  easily imagine being connected, and another couple likely to come - most  obviously the home robot (south korea already has consumer-oriented household  robot stores in major shopping malls).
and like i said, banking and credit cards are at far under one percent of total users (and far far less than that in total value of the transactions going through mobile).
this is all someting stephen elop was not in any  way involved with, yet he stands to reep the rewards of the work that was done  before him.
nsl store posted by alan moore at 06:37 pm in bloodbath, books, carriers / operators, convergence, elop, nokia, strategy | permalink | comments (22) | trackback (0) technorati tags: crisis, disruption, innovation, kodak, mobile, nokia,  photography, technology january 18, 2012 6 challenges for organisations to thrive in a non-linear world
so now the new microsoft smartphone os has the worst branding  baggage out of the whole microsoft empire.
nokia put it on its  flagship first in 2006 on the n93.
that may be good for microsoft (which seems not to care in the least about suing everyone so it might even be seen as a drawback at redmond).
but  branding is far more than the name of the brand.
so some skills are changed.
if you walk into the store with the apps as your decision criterion, then windows phone fails from the start.
and i was honored to chair the world's first mobile advertising conference in london the next year.
the lumia 900 and lumia 800 do look like flagship phones and have won plenty of praise, copying nokia's radical look of the n9 from last year.
some batteries draw down too fast, others  don't recharge properly and sometimes the problem blocks the whole battery  operation.
nokia invented the smartphone and has launched or pioneered all of the four major trends in smartphones.
his arguments are very good, but they are somewhat usa focused and still do not tackle some of the biggest reasons why windows phone - and nokia lumia - will fail.
china mobile, china . . . . . . . . .
that was morgan stanley.
you learn perhaps a certain level of humility and willingness to compromise, if you are bordering on the usa or russia/soviet union..
so today any symbian phone can do full microsoft office fully and all its peripherals and apps.
the shareholders have been satisfied, it is not another finn, and not someone from the inside, who might have been 'poisoned' with too much 'finnishness' or 'nokia-think' so the shareholders should now be happy for the short run.
elop could decide how and where to introduce the actual models to the public, how near or far from the commercial launch date.
then they became consumer gadgets (also  invented by nokia four years before before the iphone).
i didn't talk about the reality of the device as it  is manufactured, whether design flaws or component problems or build quality  etc.
yeni barbie oyunları on engagement marketing japan style: snack  brand tohato creates a multiplayer online wargame
if microsoft was the magic  potion - surely nokia should have been able to capitalize on it in 2009 and  2010 before elop decided to set his platforms on fire like the psychotic  arsonist.
these will get better over time.
but i said last february that the microsoft adventure for nokia was a high-risk gamble.
so don't delude yourself into thinking that lumia can somehow grow on the enterprise/corporate client side, either in the usa or the rest of the world.
for what its worth, my gut says they are way too optimistic, the evidence suggests it will be worse that this.
alcatel lucent mobile, france * .
it has only  passed 50,000 apps.
if we multiply the planet's population with 3  subscriptions we pass the 20 billion mark, and arrive at 20.4 billion.
market is, and how difficult it is to generate any profits there - note just  this year palm died and two very high profile smartphone/superphones were  terminated totally, the google nexus one and microsoft's short-lived kin series  of phones, and lenovo has been very public in complaining about how much more  expensive its entry into smartphones was, than what it expected).
see this link for the only place where you can  order the ebook for download tomi ahonen almanac 2009 tomi ahonen almanac 2009
i have used real consumer data mostly from 2011, to  examine every major element that is decisive in smartphone purchases today.
one nokia  executive claimed the youth were growing tired of the iphone.
but nokia was seen as a mostly gentle giant, and one that mostly  did not do harm to the ecosystem.
kantar reported the same crash of nokia  smartphone new sales in all european markets.
now this week we heard that there won't be any android smartphones on the vodafone brand.
nokia is the world's most used technology brand  (and most used brand, period).
they lost customers in  that shift!
its only loss of the  past decade was one quarter during this economic crisis, when the nokiasiemens  unit's losses were bigger than the profits made in the handsets unit.
the  value of the different industries today headed for major cannibalization by  mobile, where the majority of their business will end in mobile - is worth 5  trillion dollars.
489 ** 20  (19) . . . .
so  apps will not win the battle for lumia.
thats not much when we consider our ambitious 50 billion target.
1.6 billion people live without electricity according to  cnn in 2008, so if we take the average household size of 4 people per household  globally, thats 400 million households without electricity.
nokia utterly dominates the new smartphone market too (and does it profitably).
look at the apple  lawsuit.
without that money, moto would have lost money  again in its phones business.
that  the smartphone os will decide.
that will bode very well for nokia smartphones.
if we multiply the planet's population with 3 subscriptions we pass the 20 billion mark, and arrive at 20.4 billion.
the internet and digital  enabled new ways for fans to discover their music and artists (myspace,  youtube, social networking).
web browser is far lower, at 33% for europeans and 39% for  americans.
there are many more  industries, more small ones, that also are impacted by mobile, like cameras,  music, videogaming, the watches and clocks industry etc, but those are so small  (all under 100 billion dollars in size) that i won't spend much time on them  now.
if  you do find experts claiming some benefits for lumia, then compare those to  this list of 13 and see if the evidence suggests one is more relevant than  another.
now it seems to be clear, it will be that the internet will converge onto the mobile.
this is not proof of an os that is ready for prime time.
but teenagers and retired people? 3 sim cards?
the  critical point is, that nokia can sell touch screen smartphones for a quarter  of the price that apple can - while still doing it profitably.
so we need to cut the 8 billion number down by several billion..
so the handset portfolio problem is  far bigger here in the low end of the smartphones for the emerging world  markets.
there is a need to accept a lack of control, and of uncertainty, not  only being prepared to accept being taken outside of one’s comfort zone  but deliberately seeking it out – the consequence of which is a more  disciplined mind or organisational culture, that is now capable of strong  creative and conceptual thinking.
the second biggest country by  population is india.
so the migration has started.
but we should assume growth, so lets double that number and we arrive at 8 billion connected personal stand-alone (non mobile phone based) digital gadgets.
nokia's touch screen interface  will not need to be 'better' than the iphone - nor even 'as good as' the  iphone, as long as nokia's touch screen interface is 'good enough'.
but i  want to end on the 'lesson' for this blog.
how long is it worthwhile to try to fight for that ultra-cheap market and what strategic moves if any, nokia may want to make in that space.
that is what lenovo wants now, as they launched their lephone and sold 100,000 units in the first quarter.
that is what we are monitoring here on the communities dominate blog.. ps - if you'd like to read more, i have a few thoughts on the lessons of digital convergence up to now here, after the link continue reading "convergence contest?
it also sells apps,  services, and networking gear.
how about specificallysmartphone owners?
this is a  freebie gift to mr elop.
that is  the ultimate perfection in 'executing a smartphone strategy' those who  marvel at apple's iphone or google android phones today, seem to forget that  nokia in its smartphones is not just bigger than all iphones and
these guys manufacture the  wireless telecoms infrastructure, ie the thousands of 'base stations' and  various antenna gear etc that is needed to build a billion-dollar cellular  network.
so that is what we are fighting for.
the article got a lot of attention and on first read, to the random reader, it seems to make good arguments (i will deal with those later).
but for some consumers - remember this is only the 7th most important priority - they have their 'check lists'.
if microsoft windows was such a magical synergy tool, why is the consumer-oriented iphone outselling the windows smartphones in the us enterprise/corporate space, after a decade of windows mobile / windows phone sales by microsoft and its partners.
the world has under 1 billion automobiles!
and this is how nokia's ceo actions speak the opposite of his words.
app stores are less than meaningful (today).
lets look how these differ for the less  affluent part of the planet's population.
whether its a netbook or ipad or kindle or a notebook, lets say the  planet gets a laptop for every person - and by the end of the decade that will  of course have a 3g or faster connection.
they  are so poor they don't even own a radio receiver.
soon symbian will be 'just as good' as most in the multi-touch experiences.
here a  successful 'west coast' manager from microsoft no doubt can help a lot in  forcing much-needed changes to streamline nokia's design and development work.
a few years ago there was a big battle of will the internet win or  the mobile?
nokia was perfectly  poised to fight for this low-cost price segment with symbian, because symbian  was designed to work on very modest technological requirements and often these  ultra-low cost smartphones are not touch screen devices.
as i witnessed when i delivered my keynote to the mobile marketing association global event in the meccha of advertising, manhattan of the mad men of madison avenue haha, the big global ad agencies are all ramping up their competences in mobile, and i am witnessing it myself with far greater interest now in my mobile marketing workshops and seminars, such as delivering a keynote to the big mma event in sao paulo this week.
even as it is an element of genuine leadership,  that is supported by essentially the whole industry as an obvious trend, elop goes against the trend.
now dell, hp, lenovo, acer etc all sing of the same hymn book.
before  february, nokia's profits were growing strongly.
in the emerging world the  smartphone situation is dramatically different from that of the wealthy  industrialized world.
but yes, what of the  flagship(s).
it may become that one day, but it is not competitive  yet.
executive summary i know this is a painfully long article for most to read.
and then went to their carrier store, to buy it.
lets work on the upside and say, on average there is a pet in one third of all households (my guess is that the number is smaller but no doubt someone among our readers will know it).
this is probably more like windows 2.0 (remember that, ouch ouch ouch)  than windows 3.0 which finally was the first windows on the pc that was  (barely) usable.
both symbian and meego are open source os's that conform to indsutry standards, and are supported by many manufacturers.
in practically every country  outside of north america, nokia was the top phone brand as recently as 2010.
almost all music became available on the net  for free.
here a successful 'west coast' manager from microsoft no doubt can help a lot in forcing much-needed changes to streamline nokia's design and development work.
so this is by every measure the single  biggest product launch in the history of mobile phones.
real player was standard on nokia phones still last year and most rivals  support the file format.
even of companies that we  think of as 'mobile' like nokia, vodafone, verizon and telefonica - they have  sizeable fixed landline telecoms business.
i  honestly do not know, but i would not be surprised, if there weren't many  middle to senior managers who really should be moved on.
what of our  plants at home?
the music industry was slow to get into this opportunity and there were many problems along the way - witness crazy frog.
the topmost lumia900 that was announced at ces has  its camera downgraded from the n8.
lets go to the usa, its home market.
but not as they currently exist.
again a shift that nokia initiated and is mastering today with few real rivals (samsung the strongest to try this tactic too, with its bada based smartphones that were only launched earlier this year).
two years before apple and google got serious about mobile advertising.
it means we can then ask this question: how do we find the best  possible solution to seemingly intractable problems, and be able to answer them?
lets try to be realistic  when giving guidance about the near future.
and do remember, this is not just about smartphone apps, or even about smartphones.
the future of  the computer industry is mobile.
i don't want to make this blog a monologue about nokia.
the ceos of the major media  giants from publicis to warner music to emi have all started to sing 'future of  media is mobile' stories.
i can make some very general assumptions but  honestly i have never met the man, cannot comment on his management style etc.
lets take this issue logically, reasonably and with facts, not just conjecture and opinion and hope and hype.
but is it truly more important, that the ui is 'unique' - something no buyer asked for - or whether the operating system itself if useful, or the app store has tons of apps, or the camera is easy to use; etc.
and where nokia previously did have near retina display pixel density on the e90 communicator, nokia has again regresssed and now both lumia 900 and lumia 800 fall far short of the retina display sharpness of even the year-old iphone 4.
no electricity, no clever digital household gadgets either.
if we now assume all 6.8 billion people on the planet get a mobile wallet/mobile banking service that adds yet one more sim card, we do reach the 50 billion number.
there are almost no subsidies, so you pay exact real retail price.
making nokia's branding worse.
the  fourth most important factor is themodel of the  smartphone handset of any given brand.
that conference had many pioneers of mobile ad space, presenting, as were some big advertising companies who had launched their mobile advertising units.
what happened to subtle and stylish?
they came from nokia and microsoft offices.
thirdly, please  allow me some more clumsiness and brevity and even more meandering in my  writing style this time in this blog article, as i am back from vacation and  heavily travelling and super-busy, so i wanted to get my thoughts out sooner,  rather than try to find the time to refine and edit this blog down some more.
and its not just that, very big global partners have been  cross-promoting the ovi store.
the value of the different industries today headed for major cannibalization by mobile, where the majority of their business will end in mobile - is worth 5 trillion dollars.
a huge support system was in the recording industry to produce the sound of the music, to produce the cds, to ship them to music retail stores, and to use the radio stations, music video tv stations like mtv, and promotional concert tours to help promote the album sales.
nobody will buy the lumia  because its touch screen is superior.
nokia was once for its main business being rubber.
nokia  was 'on the mend'.
this desperation  move is purely due to mismanagement and mistakes by elop.
but i have finally finished the analysis and am ready  to publish the 2011 edition of the ahonen index: 25 largest companies ranked by  their mobile revenues.
and its not just that nokia has this incredible reach.
and this shift is far more price-sensitive than the enterprise/corporate phones market, so super-premium prices 'superphones' like the iphone 4 or samsung galaxy or blackberry torch will be mostly out of reach to the true mass market consumer segment.
what of  others who liked that book.
so you  dig more and you find out, that this car wasn't painted by ferrari in its  colors, it was painted by kia the cheap car maker of south korea.
or  perhaps the customer has a collection of movies transferred to microsd memory  cards, or whatever.
if anything,  nokia was known as the brand that did sms texting just about as well as it  could be done.
it comes to a crowded market with the samsung galaxy  now the big dog of the yard, with the iphone 4 a very strong contender, and  various other superphone wannabes, from motorola droids to blackberry torches  to lenovo lephones out there.
do you believe that abandoning 33% market share - when your unit sales grew 47% and your revenues grew and your profits grew so explosively, for the last quarter nokia set a record in profit growth of its handset unit -and replacing that with 8% market share only 3 years later, with no growth but about flat sales, dramatically fallen revenues and at best miniscule profits (probably continued losses).
not just  pruning unnecessary tech 'bloat' but literally going back in tech, to specs  that were normal on nokia phones a year, two, even three years ago.
so i cannot tell you really anything 'deep' and  'insightful' about mr elop.
nokia's ceo stephen elop decided that one utter communciation disaster like ratner effect is not enough, he compounded it with an osborne effect.
nokia mobile, finland * . . .
$ 40 b ( $ 38 b) . . .
this late in the game.
now samsung is 'doing the nokia' with its expanding galaxy portfolio while the three lumia devices are near clones of each other.
remember that nokia's last succesful  flagship - the n95 - handily outsold the iphone globally.
about apple - remember that this is 'mobile' not 'wireless' or 'portable' so the iphone is mobile, but other ios devices, while they are portable like ipad and ipod touch, they are not mobile devices, their services are not mobile, they do not 'ring in your pocket' haha.
note this growth was not that smaller 'newcomers' making  smartphones had 'grown' into the global 500.
if the consumer wants to buy a stand-alone mp3 player, that will then have very particular music needs, and that person will definitely own a smartphone also, towards the second half of this decade.
posted by tomi t ahonen at 07:30 pm in africa, android, app stores, asia, augmented reality, blackberry, bloodbath, business users, carriers / operators, china, convergence, dumbphones, ecosystem, elop, emerging world, europe, finland ,forecasts, gaming, google, india, iphone, japan, market share, marketing (classic 4 ps), microsoft, music, nokia, profits, revenues, samsung, smartphone, south korea, statistics, strategy, uk, usa, users / subscribers, youth | permalink | comments (70) | trackback (0) many of the big companies in mobile are not true 'mobile' companies in that their history is from other business and often mobile is only a part of their total income, like with google, apple, samsung etc.
and to see how widely dispersed this industry is, those top 25 companies are spread across 15 different countries.
and nokia does not do colossal mistakes.
microsoft will also be selling the  ads irrespective of nokia's own brand.
apps are even further down the list, 28% for europeans and 34% for  us consumers.
smartphone accounted  for 37% of that amount last year.
the growth was even better than they expected.
fragmentation is  relevant to application developers and other partners, not to end-users.
but yes, i'll accept this is a fair argument.
first, most of the points in the above apply to the emerging world but in perhaps different orders of priority.
else if you do touch screen, you are just another  rival.
lets start with humans
that is what enterprise/business customers want.
this is a perception problem!
also this highlights how incredibly rare that success by apple was with the launch of the iphone and how exceptional - truly excellent - their entry was into the smartphones space.
that kind of revolution is typical apple.
but the guardian tech writer who bought a lumia  800 in the uk before christmas,was so fed up with it already after christmas  when using it, he returned the smartphone - and wrote in one of britain's  biggest newspapers that its what he did.
they do not read tech magazines with product reviews and contrasts and recommendations.
[3] participatory cultures and tools [4]  openness [5] craftsmanship [6] epic – designing for transformation
similar stats come from all around the world and obviously nokia's own reported smartphone unit sales tell the same morose tale.
without that money, moto would have lost money again in its phones business.
it was not manufactured in nokia's world's  most efficient and competent handset manufacturing factories.
the  original symbian os which powers nokia's smartphones was not designed for touch  screen inputs.
these 13 reasons are not my opinions of what i  think should be the cause or effect for smartphone market succes.
this selling of a key nokia ecosystem component is how nokia's ceo communicates to his staff how his new management stops the competition from "taking our market share with an entire ecosystem."
microsoft committed 'billions' of  marketing support to nokia lumia.
the internet is  going mobile too.
then nokia had  to be far better than ranked 8th outside of the usa, after all the usa is by  far the biggest economy on the planet.
note, this doesn't exist and no word has been given that it will be arriving to windows phone and/or lumia.
they have zero concept of what a farmer in nigeria needs or a lumberjack in brazil or a fisherman in the philippines.
one quarter, this after nokia absorbed siemens's loss-making networking unit and was fighting during the economic crisis, to turn it around).
thats almost a quarter of the planet!
this is totally elop's choice.
the lumia series is a downgrade of  nokia camera capability and will severely disappoint past nokia owners and not  stand up to rivals today.
the most used aspect on our phones is not apps or web surfing.
nokia's true rivals are samsung, motorola, lg, sonyericsson and zte - each of those five makes both dumbphones and smartphones.
[2] how do those organisations push through from living in an ambiguous  world to one in which they can begin to design for adaptation?
and elop was hired - as then chairman of nokia jorma ollila said when introducing stephen elop -elop was hired to fix nokia problems in execution.
the  shareholders have been satisfied, it is not another finn, and not someone from  the inside, who might have been 'poisoned' with too much 'finnishness' or  'nokia-think' so the shareholders should now be happy for the short run.
it is sms text messaging.
but the spin doctors are at it.
first, lets be very clear, in the past decade we did grow 10-fold in mobile (vs only 3-fold growth in the internet for example).
and they truly  appreciate some minor details.
most rival smartphones have qr code readers.
we can assume that the legacy businesses, that do not embrace the digital convergence, to survive as a premium professional services industry but eventually fail the mass market.
that  guarantees that any current owners of nokia will find the lumia a severe  disappointment.
nokia has the  biggest patent portfolio of any handset maker in mobile and has invented the  second most aspects to mobile behind only ntt docomo.
those sound very reasonable.
i do not have to go into the specifics of what all microsoft has been doing in the past to anger the carrier community, as it is widely acknowledged that microsoft's carrier relations were 'strained' or 'challenged'.
no aspect of it is genuine nokia.
we are in transit from a linear world to a non-linear one.
to  understand how enormous number we are looking at, its more than ten times  bigger than the global computer industry including all pc hardware from  desktops to laptops and netbooks and tablet pcs like the kindle and ipad
perception problem against this light, nokia is 'accused' of 'failing' because of three major faults.
the elop effect collapsed the nokia smartphone sales globally, not only in the affluent countries but also in the emerging world countries.
and they truly appreciate some minor details.
the tiles are a gimmick but mostly are only an update of widgets  that have existed on such 'burning platforms obsolete' operating systems as  nokia's symbian.
yet these companies were formed and built like the steel mills, on fordist principles.
apple does it thumbing its nose at industry standards and quarrels with major players like its long-standing feud with adobe flash.
the nokia brand damage is recent and perhaps  reversable but microsoft's brand damage with windows mobile and windows phone  has been sustained far longer and been far more comprehensive.
(check out where the leading forecasters now estimate lumia  sales for q4.
it should be said, that the telecoms networking business has been a huge drain on most major telecoms vendors - motorola's networking unit went bankrupt, ericsson's was loss-making for many years, nortel of canada went bankrupt and lucent from the usa, also loss-making, was sold to alcatel of france.
good luck stephen elop.
at the  end of last year we reached mid-point, where half of all internet users  accessed the web at least part of the time using a mobile phone (which includes  the simple wap type of mobile internet usage common in many parts of the  emerging world markets).
in the usa, the television market is the biggest advertising market and the biggest mass medium.
this is good, now we are at 39.6 billion.
that loss is  solely due to elop's mismanagement of nokia last year.
so it had to be changed - quite a lot actually - and that has  been a painful and costly journey.
the internet and digital enabled new ways for fans to discover their music and artists (myspace, youtube, social networking).
that was replaced with windows phone, at best the 8th 'best' ecosystem today, which still a year later has less than half the number of apps as nokia currently still has on ovi and symbian.
this  is totally elop's choice.
advertising has been on mobile phones for a  decade already but in mostly small numbers and niche campaigns hidden in the  digital ad budgets.
it did not end the need for 'real musicians' ie playing at symphony orchestras  etc, but it helped popularize music creation, by the masses, for the masses.
the big  phone makers like nokia, samsung, sonyericsson and lg are not in the business  of creating professional cameras.
npd reported in 2010 that 46% of all mobile phone handsets sold in the usa had a qwerty keyboard either as its sole input or combined with a touch screen input.
destroying 75% of its customer base in three year!
america movil, mexico * . . .
nokia phones are sold on more networks than  any other phone brand and nokia has special partnership relationships with many  carriers, ranging from the world's largest carrier/operator china mobile to the  world's most advanced and demanding carrier/operator ntt docomo of japan (the  carrier who launched the world's first cellular telecoms mobile business ie the  company that started this industry).
as implausible  as thinking of buying a corporate jet or a superyacht.
we have arrived at the edge of the adaptive range of our industrial world.
enter stephen elop, from microsoft, to take the  reigns as nokia's new ceo.
that would give the car 2 subscriptions (for a short duration) but then upon our person we'd go down from 3 subscriptions to 2, as one was temporarily assigned to the car.
and dont get me onto data roaming charges – hard.
so windows is a most unfortunate decision in branding.
this while the industry reports  massive jump in q4 sales by rivals like samsung and apple.
so the handset portfolio problem is far bigger here in the low end of the smartphones for the emerging world markets.
as nokia (and microsoft) ashamed to reveal number,  lets count - and compare to n9 meego sales nokia q4 results: now official, elop has created world-record destruction  of market share in one year apple results?
considering how heavily smartphones can be used on some days this is a huge disadvantage, especially for power users who surf the web, use wifi, shoot video, play music, watch youtube videos etc etc etc.
water, electricity and gas metering.
this is our biggest number and we do need to pump it as much as possible to get us to the 50 billion.
what more could you want?
so you buy yourself a lumia and then set it up to wake you for the next day to go to work - and will have a severe 'i hate nokia' moment when your phone rings silently without waking you up.
this means lumia is worse off than  nokia was before the elop effect.
microsoft  ended up selling over a billion copies of windows and for long times they had  over 80% market share in the pc market, but pcs are not that widely spread  across the planet, so microsoft never approacted 25% of the planet's  population.
windows is why people  talk of the 'microsoft minute' in the delays to boot up a pc.
so by faulty leap of logic, many see that nokia is  somehow 'losing to iphone' (or android or blackberry).
this was not a make-or-break critical  product launch.
forget about microsoft's bullying of its developers and partners and rivals, and the prolonged feuds with the regulators on both sides of the atlantic.
if you like your cameraphone, you are better off  buying a 1 year old n8 than any of the brand new lumia phones.
the 100 dollar smartphone  (remember, this is without contract!
nokia introduced this fantastic feature on the n900 in 2009 (note, yes, read thumb drives and other usb memory devices including portable hard drives making the smartphone behave just like a real laptop).
and zune is only one in a series of services.
and like i said, banking and credit cards are at  far under one percent of total users (and far far less than that in total value  of the transactions going through mobile).
notice that after 'learning apple lessons' giants like google, microsoft and vodafone - have not been able to crack their way into this market.
tell me this is not good execution?
but in the emerging world where it is very common to have a daily wage of 2 dollars (thats before taxes) a 600 dollar superphone is totally beyond reach.
not until the first radio in  the mobile phone.
the forbes article starts off saying windows phone has a totally unique user interface.
it is well along, and the latest iteration of the symbian os is said to be far better at the touch screen parts.
portable multimedia players including dvd players sell 130 million.
put that into your iphone app and think again.
that was replaced with windows phone, at best  the 8th 'best' ecosystem today, which still a year later has less than half the  number of apps as nokia currently still has on ovi and symbian.
now nokia only offers 2 of those 12.
for the second most important factor for smartphone buyers, the brand - both brands are so poisonous, this is the classic comment, two turkeys do not an eagle make.
nothing about it is a nokia, except that the ceo has the nerve to stick a nokia badge on the phone and claim it is a genuine nokia.
the lumia 800  doesn't support real media player files (that will play well with web services  haha).
and what has  been a major feature of nokia smartphones always - a high proportion of them  have had physical qwerty keyboards in several formats such as the folder (ie  communciator format) and slider and blackberry style wide candybar.
nokia profits have been declining - as one might expect in a global economic downturn where many 'gold standard' corporations of impeccable credit ratings went bankrupt.
so the 50 billion number has to include  lots of devices per person, as well as a lot of non-human connections, whether  devices, household gadgets, cars, etc; as well as other living beings like  pets, farmyard animals and even connecting other things like plants.
we heard earlier this year that the uk youth's number one  desired phone is not the iphone, its the blackberry.
without handset subsidies, a 100 dollar smartphone).
and best of all, nokia is poised to  launch a new phone that the early reviews suggest could be a huge hit - any of  its success over the next 12 months will befall the new ceo.
before this action,  nokia could control how advertising might appear on nokia branded smartphones.
as this  is a 'partly true' issue, the new ceo needs to tackle it on two sides - address  the actual profitability rigorously, but also communicate it far more clearly -  that nokia as a mass market consumer phone maker - should be compared to  samsung, lg, sonyericsson and motorola (and zte) - and compared to any of  those, nokia profits are very good.
who invented the consumer-only smartphone?
why is nokia lumia not on every network in every country?
but all those  countries combined have a population that covers 7% of the planet's population.
this for the brand that had  highest loyalty in britain at the time!
who invented the cheap consumer smartphone?
deutsche bank counted in 2009 that the total global market for enterprise/business smartphones was 96 million handsets.
but i don't see someone coming to the store, and buying the lousy phone with the unique interface rather than the good phone with the familiar interface.
it once made personal computers (primarily for the domestic finnish market, nokia's micromikko was an ibm-compatible pc running microsoft operating systems).
but nokia's sub 200 dollar 'basic' smartphones play perfectly there.
so this blog is about those industries that can expect far more than half of their total value, possibly the whole industry, to migrate to mobile in the coming years and decades.
this is not the target market for new mobile phone  subscriptions.
and in any case, if a customer wanting a nokia branded phone, is not walking out of the store with a nokia branded phone, that is a lost customer to nokia (and gain to apple or android).
posted by tomi t ahonen at 04:38 pm in africa, app stores, asia, blackberry ,bloodbath, business users, carriers / operators, china, chinese handsets,  convergence, dumbphones, ecosystem, elop, emerging world, europe, finland, india ,iphone, market share, marketing (classic 4 ps), mobile money, nokia, profits,  revenues, samsung, smartphone, sms, statistics, strategy, usa | permalink |  comments (61) | trackback (0) september 08, 2010 is the 50 billion mobile subscriber number feasible for this decade?
this isnokia's current 'flagship' which fails in side-by-side comparisons on many widely used and desired features and specs - with its nokia brothers from years ago!
the only thing  genuine ferrari is the badge, which they bolted onto this fake ferrari, and  even that was not put on in italy.
and you can't ride the dead horse the only thing you can do, is get off the horse and find some other way to proceed.
and obviously my view already now as we await the nokia q4 numbers for lumia is, that based on his behavior in the past year, elop has mismanaged his company so totally, that he may not be allowed to continue running nokia.
nokia has started on that dumb path already earlier under elop with the n8 being the first nokia smartphone that didn't let users replace the battery.
fifth biggest population is brazil.
that is nothing new, once there  was a huge need of typing skills at major offices, typing pools, before the  word processor and email made most of their typing work redundant.
motorola told us earlier this summer that  a third of all smartphone buyers will not consider a smartphone that doesn't  have a qwerty input.
apple saw the trend to tiny pocket computers years ago and launched the newton pda - a gadget far ahead of its time - which was a technical masterpiece and a market failure.
i mentioned that ntt docomo created d2c together with the japanese advertising giant dentsu.
he could decide when to announce the microsoft partnership.
mobile credit cards are nearly as old.
these are: [1] how do organisations of all creeds deal with a more complex and increasingly ambiguous world?
what is best, is that the strategy and business basics at nokia are  supremely sound.
what our research  shows us that whether executed digitally or in our analogue world or indeed  blended together - those organisations that have addressed these issues with  conviction are the ones that have moved being stuck in a world of concussive  ambiguity.
again, nokia abandons what is its  competitive advantage in a futile attemp to match the iphone.
110 m . . . . . . . . .
then came the internet, napster, social networking, myspace and youtube.
they lost customers in that shift!
so ofcom is consistent with comscore that sms and the camera come ahead of web and apps.
tomi also has a  facebook and linked in page under his own name.
the planet has a population of 7 billion who  have 5.9 billion mobile phone accounts.
for what its worth, my gut says they are way too optimistic, the  evidence suggests it will be worse that this.
the ceos of the major media giants from publicis to warner music to emi have all started to sing 'future of media is mobile' stories.
but yes, what of the flagship(s).
levi's jeans, coca cola drinks, sony walkmans, bic pens, hoover vacuum cleaners, there is no brand ever, that had one quarter of the planet - but nokia is almost at that incredible point, currently used by 23.5% of the planet's population (and climbing)
whether its a netbook or ipad or kindle or a notebook, lets say the planet gets a laptop for every person - and by the end of the decade that will of course have a 3g or faster connection.
it may  become so in the future, but its not yet nearly competitive with advanced os  platforms out there.
but to me,  the plausible number of mobile phone subscriptions for the end of this decade  is somewhere in the 15 billion to 30 billion range, not in the 50 billion  range.
or as arthur c. clarke said, the only way of discovering the limits of the possible is to venture a little way past them into the impossible malik writes, anyone remember the nokia 770?
biggest app store in china?ovi.
i based them not on my personal desires and preferences of what i like in my phones, i based it on the facts and stats of what real consumers do and want.
yet in south africa it is normal to get your paycheck paid directly to your mobile account.
he made a widely criticized decision to  change nokia's naming, to go to pure numbering in its names (not nokia n9 or e7  or x7, but just nokia 500 etc).
reason 7 - fails in variety of models.
i have recently heard several times the number that the future of  mobile/cellular connected devices will leap ten-fold from today, when we have 5  billion mobile phone subscriptions to 50 billion, usually expected to happen  during this decade.
so nokia lumia trades the best carrier  relationships to bad ones, and then partners with the company with the worst  relationships - that has been making them only worse last year.
nokia sells more s40 based featurephones, which use the proprietary s40 operating system (not part of symbian) but which could be described as 'smartphone lite' - just like symbian, s40 does allow full internet use, allows application downloads and the use of the nokia (ex ovi) store for content, apps and services.
nokia once had the majority of its business  out of home electronics like tv sets.
the fourth shift in smartphones is the price trend to the  sub-100 dollar smartphone for the mass market.
and we are both large countries geographically, with small populations, in the shadow of superpowers.
that kind of revolution is typical  apple.
yet... years before there was an iphone app  store, there was a nokia app store.
but again, if we need a car to get us from point a to point b, until they invent teleportation, we will keep needing that car (or some rival like a bicycle or bus etc).
170 m . . . . . . . . .
the flash is not xenon flash.
the coming age of an uncertain world when faced with an ambiguous world some move into that world, and embrace it to understand it, listen deeply and think very hard about transformation - how to transform, how to design for transformation.
lets see how strong the windows brand is in smartphones.
but  yes, i'll accept this is a fair argument.
disruption never asks for permission nokia said it would never release a touch screen phone, so someone else did - a software company.
music was the first mobile content type in 1998 and today about 38% of all consumer music spending is mobile (when we include ringing tones).
digital editing of sound has enabled errors in sound quality to be 'fixed' - ie  some boy bands and girl bands may have members who don't have good singing  voices (perhaps are better dancers or just pretty on stage ) that can be  increasingly 'fixed' electronically.
so it had to be changed - quite a lot actually - and that has been a painful and costly journey.
they have remained silent (in  shock).
and nokia has lost most of its market share in the us market where blackberry, the iphone and various android phones now are popular.
but one of the preferred solutions is what for example was deployed in south korea, where on the phone you have one sim card for your telecoms needs, and a banking-specific sim card for all your money needs including banking, payments, credit cards, loyalty cards etc.
with these matters utterly in his control the ceo can easily deliver that.
vodafone had earlier launched some cheap featurephones for emerging world markets like india.
nokia has its own gaming engine with graphics accelerators  and all.
nokia had been the market share leader, with the best loyalty in the nation, and then produced ever better phones including one of britain's best smartphones of the year - and its rivals did nothing spectacular - remembering the iphone 4 had already been released by summer 2010 and the 4s was delayed till autumn 2011.
this chart took enough time from me.
they came from nokia and  microsoft offices.
this is due  to the voices of fear, cynicism and prejudice.
and yes, a fraction of nokia's total phone output is smartphones, and this year the revenues out of smartphones roughly speaking match the total revenues of the dumbphones.
once they bother to count, to do the basic math, and see that there are about 190 million android users worldwide, about 120 million iphone users (and about 170 million ios users when we add ipad and ipod touch); and over 300 million symbian users; and about 100 million blackberry users - and only about 5 million windows phone users.
but as the mass market vanished, the  mass market business also shifted.
videogaming followed and  today a quarter of videogaming service revenues is generated on mobile.
that loss is solely due to elop's mismanagement of nokia last year.
before we get into massive argument about blackberry is dying, hear this: a 2011 survey of 20,000 businesses in the usa by tns, found that blackberry penetration ranged from 61% to 81%.
so the sales reps learn real fast which phones have high return rates - and stop selling them!
note, the car may have multiple subscriptions, as we may for example use our normal phone service, take out the sim card from the phone and insert it into the car's sim card slot.
and  on every one of those 13 areas, i evaluated lumia compared to where nokia (and  microsoft) was before and where its rivals are now.
nokia had been the market share leader, with the best  loyalty in the nation, and then produced ever better phones including one of  britain's best smartphones of the year - and its rivals did nothing spectacular  - remembering the iphone 4 had already been released by summer 2010 and the 4s  was delayed till autumn 2011.
let me make an observation here.
that is not the same in television or personal computers or cars or airplanes etc - most other industries the role of the us market is very big.
i have said for many years now, that we have yet another 'dimension' in this race, of a major economic sector headed to mobile: money.
what is their proportion?
the big screen  on the lumia 900 is nice, but far bigger screens are on current androids  including the monster screen on the samsung galaxy note.
then they announced android based  smartphones for their vodafone 360 service environment.
elop had a  company that had growing sales, growing revenues, growing profits, and a  growing share price - and turned that to losing sales, losing revenues,  generating losses and a massively crashing share price (nokia's share price  fell to less than half in the next five months).
except the numbers are trivially small, compared to mobile.
huwaei mobile, china * . . . . . . .
if we assume one car-related subscription that comes with  the new car when we buy it, to connect to the maps and security systems and  self-diagnostics and on-board games etc - we only add 1 billion mobile  subscriptions to the planet.
he combined the osborne effect with the ratner effect in something i now call theelop
(again, us readers, don't be fooled about t-mobile contract price of 50 dollars  for lumia 710, it costs many times more without the subsidy).
that phone could have been nokia’s future, instead it is forgotten.
and for  apple-watchers, not only has 'apple iphone' jumped up massively on the list,  apple only making smartphones is almost as big as nokia with smartphones,  dumbphones and the mobile side of nokia's networking business, combined.
etc etc etc we still have a need for real music  and real musicians and real creative arists.
now nokia only  offers 2 of those 12.
the market leader now has 16mp (htc).
he is a canadian - a nationality that seems to gell particularly well with finns (maybe its all that ice hockey - the greatest ever ice hockey player, the one they called 'the greatest' ie wayne gretzky, a canadian, did after all get most of his points scored, by setting up passes to a finn - jari kurri his long-time scorer-sniper, who in turn is of course the greatest-ever finn to play ice hockey.
lets start with the human 3 sim card target.
the advice and guidance of peers and friends  is seeked even more than we might do.
its  flagship phone is not seen as good enough to go against the iphone.
the rivals did not come in 2011 with superphones  with unbelievable features like say time travel or teleportation.
and yes, i do believe in dramatic growth to come in mobile, so i am all for the expectations to be big.
nokia and  microsoft had done full office suite integration years ago and it helped nokia  and microsoft sell
the lumia is a failure and it will get  worse.
i counted that in 2006 there were 7 of the fortune global 500 biggest companies  on the plant, who made a smartphone.
welcome  stephen elop
with over 250 public speaking engagements, tomi been  seen by a cumulative audience of over 100,000 people on all six inhabited  continents.
i  don't have a current one in the public domain but in 2009 morgan stanley  published their price pyramid for mobile phones worldwide.
nokia once had the majority of its business out of home electronics like tv sets.
in 2013 the projection has 16 million symbian sales for a total of 80 million nokia smartphones.
in that decade, nokia became not just the world's biggest mobile phone maker, and the gadget most used on the planet - nokia became the world's most prevalent 'clock' or 'watch', the most used camera brand - even the nokia default ringing tone, known as the 'nokia tune' - became the most recognized song on the planet, known more than white christmas or happy birthday or any song by the beatles or elvis or frank sinatra or michael jackson or madonna.
ok, lets take the uae example (this is abu dhabi, dubai etc the oil-rich emirates on the arabian peninsula).
in other words — the company isn’t fat in a traditional sense.
but this is utterly irrelevant to nokia.
i called it  the ahonen index and as far as i've seen, nobody else has published a similar  list - quite astonishing considering that mobile is the fastest-growing giant  industry, ever.
now samsung is 'doing the nokia' with its expanding  galaxy portfolio while the three lumia devices are near clones of each other.
the top 7 most  important decision criteria are in this order: 1) brand, 2) model of handset;  3) network provider; 4) look and feel; 5) features and services; 6 operating  system; and 7) apps and content.
the internet had 0% mobile users in 1996.
there is no need for plastic cards in south korea, but you may travel to a less  advanced country like say germany or usa or australia or france where they  'still use plastic credit cards' haha...
for the whole  past decade, nokia was every single quarter as big as two of its next largest  rivals combined, there were several quarters where nokia made more mobile  phones than the next 4 biggest handset makers of the world - put together.
so what happened to nokia  sales in britain in 12 months.
of the total population on  the planet, out of any person who has ever used any type of camera, for 9 out  of 10 such users, the only type of camera they have ever used, is on some  cameraphone.
this desperation move is purely due to mismanagement and mistakes by elop.
if you believe in growth opportunities coming from those sectors of the industry that expanding most strongly, mobile advertising is that right now.
that makes you wonder about apple's silly strategy of not giving us a  qwerty variant to the iphone.
what travel agent could have specialized in hong kong to sao paulo travel for me today.
this is xbox vs playstation vs wii.
and what does elop do at nokia?
but windows phone was built to be the iphone-killer - so  admit microsoft execs now - and it was made to be a consumer-oriented  smartphone os, not a business-oriented os.
what of my shopping history.
imagine if if i sold you a  ferrari.
and that  kind of provocative argument does suggest those considering the market  opportunity to also focus on who and what is to be connected, to understand we  will run out of humans to connect, very soon, and the growth will need to be  made from other devices and gadgets and pets and so forth.
all consumer reviews by the tech press say that the lumia 800 fails head-to-head against the iphone 4s or samsung galaxy etc, and the lumia 900 doesn't bring anything better on its look and feel.
in many countries from india to nigeria.
creating killer applications in 3g ajit jaokar, alan moore, brian jenkins, jouko ahvenainen: social media marketing: how data analytics helps to monetize the user base in telecoms, social networks, media and advertising in a converged ecosystem alan moore: no straight lines
they sold 4 million units.
from that it is a very 'safe' projection - actually quite negative of this alliance, if separately they are worth 32% but combined they only do 20% or 22% or something like that.
[6] how do organisations prepare for and design for  transformation?
the third biggest factor for smartphone buyers in the emerging world, far ahead of apps or the os, is the network provider ie the carrier ie mobile operator.
the flash  is not xenon flash.
nokia was very good also at  keeping to its vision - not for example taking the populist view from 2006 that  flip phones would take over the world (anyone remember the razr).
the finnish employment  culture - and that at nokia - rewards loyalty and makes it difficult to lay off  people.
how do you live in that kind of world?
artists would compile 'albums' of about 15 songs, sold at a price far greater  than the one hit that currently made the artist popular on the charts.
mobile phones sell 1.3 billion units annually - in any one year they sell more mobile phones than the total installed base of personal computers on the planet.
there even have been exotic qwerty form factors like the butterfly keyboard.
the actual peak of the iphone market share has already happened (the iphone had 17% of smartphone market share this time last year, they are now down to either 14% or 13% depending on which analyst numbers you look - every analyst now acknowledges that the iphone has peaked and is losing market share globally).
and that is concussive as an experience.
meanwhile microsoft's windows phone was designed to work on very high spec components - in fact, windows phone does not even work on nokia's standard chip supplier equipment like texas instruments.
by 2011, google's chairman eric schmidt was saying that mobile advertising was delivering 2.5 billion dollars of ad revenues to the company.
verizon wireless, usa * . . . . .
- why is elop not willing to sell the n9 (and its sister phone the n950) in  every market!
nokia was not years behind, nokia was literally years ahead of all its rivals in this space.
$ 72 b ( $ 62 b) . . .
at&t will sell the lumia 900 as an exclusive.
if we want to measure  the 'migration rate' then currently one third of one percent of all banking  accounts have migrated to mobile.
even as it is an element of genuine leadership, that is supported by essentially the whole industry as an obvious trend, elop goes against the trend.
this happened while the  global smartphone industry exploded in 2011 growing by 59% from the year before.
whatever you  think of nokia's success in the past, whether you applaud it or are aghast, the  performance of lumia will be worse.
all is  not peachy so far its been a love-fest here with the communities  dominate blog admiring nokia..
orange  mobile, france * . . .
the customer knows far more accurately what is true value.
reason 7 - fails variety in model of handset
now the lumia 800 and 710 are far too expensive for this market.
what nokia would have desperately needed out of early lumia was low-cost smartphones now, to try to hold onto that market share.
and that, if we take the dozen industries mentioned in this blog (excluding travel, cars, hotels etc) is worth a cool 5 trillion dollars or about 9% of the total global economic spending of all economies on the planet.
almost all music became available on the net for free.
elop in his microsoft madness decided not to  use nokia's finland based competence, he went to the usa to design his lumia  phones.
what moron moron moron didn't prioritize sms and allowed this kind of failure at microsoft?
and then just make sure as ceo, that those profits will now turn into growth again, as the economy improves - and probably with some strategic decisions about focus areas.
i do like visions of big growth numbers in mobile.
and  nokia's basic handset (dumbphones) unit is also profitable, and while its  networking unit had struggled for a few years after nokia bought the  loss-making networking unit from former giant rival siemens, nokia networking  management very efficiently turned that loss-making business around, and now  the combined entity is profitable - albeit only marginally so.
for example the phone will not wake up from the alarm.
he gave10 reasons why windows phone will fail.
by the time the mobile phone had  beaten the major rivals, pdas, stand-alone cameras and musicphones, by 2006,  the total pocketable gadget market had doubled to more than 200 billion dollars  in value, of which mobile had about three quarters.
[2] how do those organisations push through from living in an ambiguous world to one in which they can begin to design for adaptation?
well we have that data too.
this is strict definition mobile and for apple that means iphone and related revenues only (but does include iphone app store related revenues too)
windows phone does do multitasking, but only just.
it also has a new os coming up, called meego, also open  source, also supported by many manufacturers, but is now fresh and new, and  linux based.
he could decide  when to announce the microsoft partnership.
steve jobs himself explained why the ecosystem would be stronger with an ad platform explaining that"developers have to find a way to make some money" and that the iad platform was a way apple could help its developers in its ecosystem.
over 70% of smartphones in india over 80% over the whole continent of africa in new smartphone sales in 2010 were nokia branded.
we actually have another issue with the homes too.
the internet is going mobile too.
anssi vanjoki even if asleep, even if simultaneously having nightmares, could still outperform the 6.4 million under those conditions.
no straight  lines presents a new logic and inspiring plea for a more human centric world  that argues we now have the possibility to truly transform our world, to be  more resilient, to be more relevant to us both personally and collectively,  socially cohesive, sustainable, economically vibrant and humane, through the  tools, capabilities, language and processes at our fingertips.
but nokia's 'real' designers know.
but not to tag all trees, only those scheduled for the next round of cuts in the forest.
sk telecom, s korea . . .
the enterprise/business market is very stable over time, it will not be significantly over 100 million today, so enterprise smartphones account for roughy speaking 1 out of every 5 smartphones sold globally.
just about everything he does, and everything he says, turns out to be untrue, often the opposite seems to come true.
similarly pocketable stand-alone gaming devices sell 48 million units.
reason 2 -  camera catastrophy - nokia mobile phones have always been known for good  cameras, its flagship phones tend to have had the best cameras in the world.
i also discuss the enterprise/corporate side of the smartphone business.
’'you look up the highway and it is straight for miles.
the first xenon ie real flash in 2007.
i ended up moving the calcuation point to the q2 results  (previous four quarters) so this is now roughly in harmony with the fortune  global 500 issue which is published annually in the summer.
but nokia dominates the 'old way' of  dumbphones - bigger than its nearest rivals (profitably) - and it dominates the  'future' being far bigger than any rivals in smartphones, whether they are  classic big phone makers like samsung or sonyericsson of motorola, or pure  smartphone makers like rim, apple or htc.
that  market seems a great opportunity due to microsoft windows os and office suite  integration with nokia smartphones.
there is a parallel trend from basic phone pad (12 key) ie t9 inputs to  qwerty inputs, especially for enterprise/business users (email) and youth (sms  and instant messaging).
nokia ceo stephen elop was  on stage a couple of times as was microsoft ceo steve ballmer.
you may  freely quote and repeat the above chart.
i am not saying all was  well, but nokia had passed the worst part, and was on the road to better.
and the model of handset.
in reality that is a  market anomaly that applies to north america only, where only 8% of the  planet's mobile phones are sold..  nokia utterly dominates the rest of the  world (with the exception of those countries where strong domestic rivals  control that country, south korea, japan and yes, the usa).
the lumia 800 has only 8 mp camera regressed from 12 mp in n8 a year before.
but it also often means cannibalization of the legacy services and their eco-systems.
simultaneously we see shifts from hardware to software, from phones to apps.
the above is all sales related matters.
to understand how enormous number we are looking at, its more than ten times bigger than the global computer industry including all pc hardware from desktops to laptops and netbooks and tablet pcs like the kindle and ipad... plus the applications and software industry enabled by the pc industry.
i will be most happy to be proven wrong, but just please do take some  sanity checks on the assumptions.
$ 66 b ( $  67 b) . . .
understand that even  in 2013, symbian will utterly tower over windows phone in installed base.
yes, from small things, big things can grow.
while the big banking execs are mostly blissfully ignorant, thinking that launching an iphone app is tantamount to a mobile strategy, haha, the tsunami wave is well under way.
we  can't fly on the phone.
and the buyer has worked far more for that dollar than we have had to for our dollar.
and managements at very big global corporations do make investment decisions and product commitment decisions based on some very serious calculations.
even of companies that we think of as 'mobile' like nokia, vodafone, verizon and telefonica - they have sizeable fixed landline telecoms business.
we are in transit from a  linear world to a non-linear one.
but  music didn't end.
but that was  exactly how it was with smartphones vs personal computers in 2000, or how it  was with the mobile internet users out of all internet users in 2002, or what  it was with advetising in 2006.
the mobile industry sells 1.3 billion new mobile phones every year (with a replacement cycle of 17 months).
symbian (above adapted from statcounter data from november 29, 2011, as reported by browserrank.com)
this is at best a long-term gain.
i am not  saying nokia had somehow magically caught up with the iphone butthe  fact is, nokia had a record christmas quarter in 2010, and then things were  improving for 2011.
the pure smarpthone maker htc sits  just out of the chart and is likely to enter it next year.
in the usa, sms used by 67%, camera used by 57% and internet surfing by 43% (they did not ask about apps).
the company like many was once super successful - so successful in fact that it seemed nothing could stop it.
for the 5 trillion dollar trophy.
that is why even when nokia had problems like the failed flagship smartphone n97, nokia overall global sales did not suffer severely.
lumia 800 doesn't have tv out, that came to nokia flagships in the  n93 in 2006 and many rivals have it.
and best of all, nokia is poised to launch a new phone that the early reviews suggest could be a huge hit - any of its success over the next 12 months will befall the new ceo.
if lumia fails to sell 4 million copies in q4,  it will be so comprehensively rejected that nokia cannot revive it.
all android  phones put together - in smartphones this past quarter, nokia was almost as big  as its biggest rivals numbers 2, 3 and 4 put together!
yes, some geek like you and me may know of it, but  even for us, its very very low in the order of what we want.
because of it, nokia now is in deep trouble and has to try to sell assets just to remain alive.
and lets delve into the biggest news in mobile of last week..)
windows phone launched in 2010 we've now had over a year of its 'success' and  kantar reported that the combined sales of windows mobile and windows phone  based smartphones in the usa dropped by half again, from 2010 to 2011.
reason 2 - camera catastrophy so lets go to nokia's second huge advantage against all competitors outside of japan and south korea domestic markets.
no wonder that one of  the us carriers refused to offer the glaring color options.
does this phone have lte.
and since then nokia had developed the mobile advertising arm at its navteq unit, and bought other mobile advertising companies such as acuity mobile in 2009.
surely that is the magic potion.
what is worse, the next update to windows  phone is aimed at the cheapest phones, so the flagships cannot even catch up to  the rivals with the next windows phone release.
by offering a wide range of smartphone models.
i have been preaching the convergence story in each of my 9  books and was personally involved in the early stages of the digital  convergence, from creating the world's first computer company advertisement to  the internet (media and internet convergence) to leading the team that created  the world's first fixed-mobile converged solution (fixed and mobile telecoms  convergence) to authoring early documents on the future of convergence (at  nokia's telephony gateways digital convergence unit, i authored the first white  paper for the industry to discuss how to do the internet on mobile).
this has been  reported only in anecdotal evidence and mostly in countries of the  industrialized world, but nokia itself admitted in the quarterly results that  its carriers and distribution channel had reduced inventory suddenly and to an  unanticipatedly large degree.
it comes to a crowded market with the samsung galaxy now the big dog of the yard, with the iphone 4 a very strong contender, and various other superphone wannabes, from motorola droids to blackberry torches to lenovo lephones out there.
some of the fantasies and science fiction  views are dramatic yes, but the numbers do not add up.
what resolution is video recording.
we now apparently have the evil empire and its evil twin.
but in the emerging world they do not have pcs in every home or every office.
and we've seen 4 deaths already.
this time there is huge pent-up demand for nokia phones and almost no rival nokia handsets to steal any lumia sales.
and what has been a major feature of nokia smartphones always - a high proportion of them have had physical qwerty keyboards in several formats such as the folder (ie communciator format) and slider and blackberry style wide candybar.
because of that, nokia can't even start to  ship low-cost smartphones until the second half of this year at the earliest  (if microsoft manages to deliver on time).
yes, some will love it, but most  not.
please do not say tomi hates nokia.
the iphone app store is the world's bestselling smartphone app store ..
and lets start where most sensible marketers start, not from the product but from the consumer.
the lumia 800 has only 8 mp camera regressed from 12 mp in n8 a  year before.
in europe pew found in every country the same order, sms most, camera  second and web third.
nokia was placed on a sales boycott.
in smartphones  nokia's market share fell from 29% in q4 of 2010, to 12% of q4 of 2011.
so the cannibalization will eat into the size  of the 'total pie' of the industries prior to convergence.
so yes, the automobile industry is eager to get into mobile too, many new cars feature sim card slots for example and the next internet (after the internet has gone mobile) will be in cars.
this was very confusing and he reversed his  decision two months later and today we have the lumia series, the asha series,  and even individual phone models like the lumia ace ie lumia 900.
but why none of its strategies worked was because the company took too long and sat on its duff watching digital photography come and eat it for a mid-day snack even though kodak r&d helped with the digital photo revolution when it launched the first digital camera in 1975.
symbian germany . . . . . .
nokia ceo stephen elop was on stage a couple of times as was microsoft ceo steve ballmer.
this against the reported evidence that the iphone is breaking all of its sales record and on every national chart for which i have seen statistics, the iphone 4s sits as the bestselling phone for q4.
that could be seen to be reasonable for adult and employed populations.
but that likely digital convergence will not kill most industries.
and the major media industries and advertising are headed to  a pocket near you too.
if elop practised what he preached, he would not be selling his mobile advertising unit, he would be nurturing it, growing it - not selling it.
the lumia series was not designed by nokia top engineers in finland.
nokia's brand has been damaged very badly in the past year.
or just about anything other than windows.
there are trends happening in smartphones.
iphone came second  and blackberry third.
we can  assume that the legacy businesses, that do not embrace the digital convergence,  to survive as a premium professional services industry but eventually fail the  mass market.
tomi is currently based out of hong kong but supports  fortune 500 sized companies across the globe.
the tomiahonen almanac is the indispensible industry statistics volume for anyone working in this industry.
for the 5 trillion dollar  trophy."
[4] how do organisations learn to design for a more participatory world?
even the superphones are featured in the stores even as few customers ever can afford them.
in terms of a viable 'mobile phone age' population, what is the total population of 6.8 billion people today, can be seen to be the viable mobile phone aged population a decade from now.
when you look at the lumia 900, it is like the designer of the lumia 800 fell asleep.
artists could still sell tickets at concerts, so  they shifted more of their income from selling albums to concerts.
the lumia 800 doesn't support video calling  (gosh, how far back can i go, i think it was the 6680 back about 2004 that  first had videocalling support and every nokia flagship has had it since..
the mac was  always better.
we know the latest iteration of nokia's app store as ovi - incidentially the world's third best-selling app store for those who care about the lives of ants in the world of elephants.
the replacable battery is far more  necessary.
it may be time for nokia  to get rid of nsn, and if so, a new ceo, in these times of poor profits,  especially as an outsider and non-finn, with no internal loyalties to worry  about - this is something stephen elop will no doubt be considering.
they were organisationally designed for a linear, and simple universe.
the touch  screen phone was not invented by apple, nokia had its first touch screen phone  out years before the iphone.
and in many of the less affluent countries on that list, even radio does not reach as widely as mobile phones.
yes it was thebiggest  management failure in the economic history of humankind, that we witnessed last  year.
posted by tomi t ahonen at 01:33 pm in asia, blackberry, carriers /  operators, china, chinese handsets, convergence, dumbphones, emerging world,  europe, google, india, iphone, japan, market share, nokia, revenues, samsung,  smartphone, south korea, statistics, uk, usa | permalink | comments (4) |  trackback (0)
then the comparison - sms text messaging alone is worth 100 billion dollars.
consequently we are faced with an increasingly pressing and urgent problem,  what comes next?
but apple did what it always does, it made existing things far better - so we see a new world (in touch screen interfaces) after the iphone - and now also in tablet pcs too (kindle, ipad etc).
a  nokia cameraphone so good a professional movie maker made not an 'experimental  film' for a film festival, or a short film, or amateur film, but a full  commercial production movie for cinematic release.
is it the services model (cloud computing etc) or the app store.
the nokia share price was not falling in february -  the stock market liked elop's first five months of nokia leadership so much,  that the share price had climbed 11% - a very strong growth in a five month  period for the new ceo, when the previous three years had seen a 50% drop in  nokia share price.
note that all of the above come ahead of your  precious app store.
the n8 and symbian s^3 sold 4 million copies.
i did a meticulous calculation of the futility of investing in apps  today, and showed with rigorous analysis and facts that half of developers of  paid apps will not make a profit in less than 11 years, and for the free apps  (ie used in advertising and marketing)
and yes, i am not saying that.
the cameraphone did not kill the stand-alone camera.
thats how you do differentiation.
i  am sure there are plenty of uses for near field connections for all sorts of  sensors to enable something like digital farming, to identify animals, but  those don't need cellular network connectivity.
what of emerging world ?
in many  countries from india to nigeria.
nokia adjusted, and it now has not just one  touch screen phone like apple, nokia has of coursee a series of touch screen  phones.
it is yes, the iphone.
and nokia owned the low-cost smartphone space.
if that feeling turned to hostility, there is good chance it can be reversed.
the sensible smartphone designed for emerging world markets as a low-cost smartphone will have dual sim slots, will have family ringing and family phonebooks (allowing the sharing of one phone with several family members) and will include the torch/flashlight etc where the village has no street lights at night etc.
there is no slot  for any kind of memory card which is regressing from the microsd slot in the n8  that supported 32 gb memory cards.
so in sum about nokia today, it is the biggest,  most dominant dumbphone maker.
reason 6 - input failure.
today only two of them continue making cameras, canon and nikon - which both quickly shifted their focus from consumer snapshot cameras to premium professional and semi-pro camera systems.
elop himself admitted the damage to nokia market share took him by surprise and admitted later to more surprise that nokia plunged from generating profits to generating losses.
there is no need for plastic cards in south korea, but you may travel to a less advanced country like say germany or usa or australia or france where they 'still use plastic credit cards' haha...
i am not saying all was well, but nokia had passed the worst part, and was on the road to better.
the joke was, that to see what will be on the next iphone model, just look at a 3 year old nokia flagship.
if we say 6 connected gadgets in the  home, we'd arrive at 10.2 billion more to add to our total.
there were stand-alone pdas yes, but no advanced 'smartphone' to give computer like performance.
it is hard to avoid articles that  talk about microsoft and nokia, that do not mention the promised nirvana of the  'third ecosystem'.
if the lumia sales in q4 fall under 4 million, the  signs are undeniable that lumia's path is a dead end, a cul-de-sac, and the  sooner nokia board sees this, the sooner they must terminate all activites that  waste resources pursuing that route.
one  quarter, this after nokia absorbed siemens's loss-making networking unit and  was fighting during the economic crisis, to turn it around).
if you like your cameraphone, you are better off buying a 1 year old n8 than any of the brand new lumia phones.
morgan stanley found  2% of the phones sold to be premium smartphones; 11% to be other smartphones  and the remaining 87% to be 'featurephones' ie non-smartphones or 'dumbphones'.
or maybe its the long dark winters, the snow, who knows.
nokia has started on  that dumb path already earlier under elop with the n8 being the first nokia  smartphone that didn't let users replace the battery.
whatever you thought of ovi and symbian 'failing' in apps, it is far worse on windows phone.
rather than sell  ad unit, why not allow sales of n9 what i cannot understand, is if  nokia is in the business of selling mobile phones, and its most profitable  smartphones are currently onthe undersirable lumia brand (where sales  representatives at stores find that in 11 cases out of 12, a customer who buys  a nokia branded smarthpone refuses to take a lumia) and thehighly desirable  meego platform (where sales representatives find that one in four customers who  buys a nokia smartphone, will buy an n9 which uses the meego operating system)
so  while nokia had every chance to gain an advantage on the look side, it  voluntarily abandoned about half of the total market potential.
nokia is again voluntarily abandoning a competitive advantage, which means lumia will perform less well than nokia was able to do in the past.
the planet did not suddenly have a huge rise in its wealth in the past two  years (arguably, we've suffered globally with the economic crash).
and today that is of course hdmi out.
in the usa, sms used by  67%, camera used by 57% and internet surfing by 43% (they did not ask about  apps).
whatever you thought of microsoft success or failure in the past in mobile, the ex general manager of windows phone tells us that microsoft had indeed had a bad relationship with carriers, microsoft's attitude to carriers had already been one of arrogance and abuse; and that carriers hated it;and that since then microsoft had been making matters worse - and the resulting penalty from carriers was to push sales away form microsoft to android.
windows phone launched in 2010 we've now had over a year of its 'success' and kantar reported that the combined sales of windows mobile and windows phone based smartphones in the usa dropped by half again, from 2010 to 2011.
yes, we have the clever plants-to-humans communications by  agrihouse of japan who offer the humidity sensors to plants that send sms  messages to the owner saying when the plants need to be watered.
lumia 800 (and 900) is utterly beyond the market price except for the rich elites, who will rather buy iphones, blackberries etc.
after that all games need to be repurposed to the windows phone format - thats no small feat - and the handsets need the gaming accelerators etc for the hardware, etc.
apple is suing everybody and winning.
the critical point is, that nokia can sell touch screen smartphones for a quarter of the price that apple can - while still doing it profitably.
the world is going ever more lean.
taking a book from donald rumsfeld they are trying to convince investors that lumias will be greeted as liberators.
the windows phone os forces the standard  buttons on the touch screen that crowd out part of the screen permanently and  the other controls are pretty lame.
motorola went from profitable to loss-making in its  strategic partnership with microsoft smartphones.
we can't fly on the phone.
n/a source: tomiahonen almanac 2012, the above table and data may be freely quoted notes: * indicates imaginary company, based only on mobile revenues, with imaginary name for the company ** indicates actual real ranking in fortune global 500 listing as it is a real company purely in mobile note also that the google company incorporates motorola mobility unit revenues, but not other motorola mobile revenues of its networking etc business.
he said because carriers have explicitly decided to support android rather than windows phone - "that is why windows phone has not sold as well".
$ 17 b ( n/a ) .. . . . . .
this is corporate suicide.
most of that was not consumer-oriented app store applications.
again, that does not end the need for pure excellence in real singing - witness uk singing sensation susan boyle what the digital convergence did, most of all, it dis-intermediated some players, and re-intermediated others.
stand-alone digital cameras sell 103 million  per year (says morgan stanley in 2009).
when the battle for the pocket  started a decade ago, the total value of all pocketable digital gadgets was  about 100 billion dollars in very rough terms.
the sales reps hate returns - because the customer has to be sold another model smartphone - but the sales rep won't get a new commission.
yahoo? posted by tomi t ahonen at 04:20 pm in android, bloodbath, carriers /  operators, emerging world, india, iphone, smartphone, strategy | permalink |  comments (27) | trackback (0) next » available for consulting and speakerships available for consulting & speaking  tomi ahonen is a bestselling  author whose twelve books on mobile have already been referenced in over 100  books by his peers.
a  genuine ferrari 2 seater sportscar.
if they had aggressively pursued the mobile market, either through a premium cameraphone or a specialist role in the ecosystem or in partnership - any of the big giants of cameras could have a major role in the mobile industry today.
if you want  to, go ahead.
they are utterly dooming lumia.
and it was run as all telco's are - hard.
nokia is a complex organization with  much design and r&d overlap - quite costly.
the 100 dollar smartphone (remember, this is without contract!
amplifying reason 4 - brand is muddled you understand that if nokia was a rubbish brand in the usa, but still ranked 8th most powerful brand globally in 2010.
remember, these customers do not have an  internet to go do price-shopping.
i can understand that the ceo of a company that is massively generating losses (no matter what the cause) is now resorting to desperate moves such as firing tens of thousands of employees and selling assets.
nokia adjusted, and it now has not just one touch screen phone like apple, nokia has of coursee a series of touch screen phones.
so maybe we can find salvage from the microsoft  side of this partnership.
they were involved in the first mobile battle of convergence, what i called the 'battle for the pocket' in my second book m-profits in 2002.
in q2 of 2009 windows smartphones in the usa had 9.7% market share according to gartner.
nokia shipped sub-100 dollar smartphones from 2009 as did samsung.
paid downloads and paid  customers to mobile phones, not smartphones, globally, years before angry  birds. 4 million is nothing amazing to the mobile industry.
nokia is a complex organization with much design and r&d overlap - quite costly.
a new converged economic opportunity emerges  within the digital convergence which will not be as big, as the separate  industries would be separately.
these are: [1] how do organisations of all creeds deal with a more  complex and increasingly ambiguous world?
nokia brand is sheer garbage today.
windows is synonymous with crashes, bugs, delays, incompatibilty, viruses, spyware and tedious updates.
mobile alone is worth a bit more than one fifth of that, so  there is far more from 'outsiders' to 'contribute' to this journey, than for  the legacy mobile giants to do
digital convergence changed music creation - the sampling of instruments popularized by the early 'synthesizer' music of the 1970s and 1980s has made it easier for an artist to 'master' multiple instruments.
existing in a more complex world
click here for nsl store related articles lego cuusoo - the what's next for business in a non-linear world  (no-straight-lines.com)
$ 14 b ( $ 9 b ) . . . . .
so lets see how technologically advanced the  lumia 800 is, the flagship currently available - the lumia 900 will release  only on at&t late in the spring about the time when we expect the iphone 5  to launch.
same with  the n9 (pure touch screen) and its sister the n950 (with qwerty slider).
in  this nokia case, the gambler arrived with a million dollars and only has  100,000 to show for it.
he must be fired for cause and any nokia board members who do not support an immediate investigation of elop should be themselves investigated for collusion, neglect or incompetence.
the first generation of iphones would not even let users install apps to it!
but you do love the look and feel of the ferrari and its bright red ferrari color, until you drive next to another red ferrari, and obseve that your red is not the same red.
but the  spin doctors are at it.
we are starting to get  there..
and for several years now, nokia has been selling more  than a million handsets every single day of the year, including weekends and  holidays.
it adds your keys to your home and car, the pass-keys to your office, your identity card, and now as the phone collects your payment behavior, they have launched the mobile consierge to the phone, to help manage your life.
i don't need 1 million sim cards,  i need 1,000.
it  will never happen.
nobody will buy the lumia because its touch screen is superior.
assumptions that are quite deadly to the target number.
last year at this time, for q4, nokia introduced a new operating system version, symbian s^3 led by the new flagship smartphone n8.
against its real rivals today, nokia is a  powerhouse utterly dominating its industry, the true gorilla of the mobile  world.
nokia is offering ever cheaper 'africa phones' and keeps providing features and abilites that many rivals ignore, specific to the less wealthy customers - replacable batteries, critical in countries of poor electricity supply - in-built fm radios - surprisingly for many in the poorest countries the first ever fm radio they have owned, is the one that comes with the new nokia phone.
that is nokia knowhow!
the smartphone apps portfolio is ranked only tied for 5th/6th highest priority for buyers of new smartphones.
but you won't make it of course.’
and elop has tried to rally his nokia employees to engage in a battle of ecosystems.
in britain lumia didnt make it into the  top 10 bestselling smarpthones even for the december month.
except not now the lumia.
apps are even further down the list, 28% for europeans and 34% for us consumers.
so while we in the industrialized world can at least theoretically have a good impression about microsoft and windows, and it can 'help' in the branding battles - top priority please remember, then in the emerging world countries the microsoft brand is no help and easily a hindrance.
six out of every ten smartphones was a blackberry in tiny us businesses of less than 4 employees and 8 out of ten smartphones was a blackberry in the biggest corporations of 1,000 employees or more.
$ 49 b ( $ 50 b) . . .
there is management overhead.
of the portable digital gadgets, with the 8 billion number.
then - while the customer  would be willing to prioritize the brand of phone (nokia) ahead of the exact  model - in these cases, there is no other nokia smartphone to sell (because  idiot elop decided to pull all symbian phones from the shelves in the usa, and  worse - refuses to sell the magnificent n9 and n950 which run on the meego  operating system).
and i should mention the app  stores.
reason 10 - regressing in features and services and the last of the major decision criteria in the industrialized  world for selecting smartphones is the features and services offering.
at the start of 2010, there were 23 companies that had either launched or were launching a smartphone, out of the fortune global 500.
how badly is the lumia 800  regressing !
nokia's flagship phones have always,  always had the best cameraphones (japan, s korea blah-blah-blah).
then - while the customer would be willing to prioritize the brand of phone (nokia) ahead of the exact model - in these cases, there is no other nokia smartphone to sell (because idiot elop decided to pull all symbian phones from the shelves in the usa, and worse - refuses to sell the magnificent n9 and n950 which run on the meego operating system).
its very very bloody in  the smartphone wars.
i am a firm believer in mobile banking and mobile money and payments.
someone prefers a mercedes benz  c-series, another prefers a porsche 911.
i ended up moving the calcuation point to the q2 results (previous four quarters) so this is now roughly in harmony with the fortune global 500 issue which is published annually in the summer.
110 4 (7) . . . . . .
posted by tomi t ahonen at 12:31 pm in 7th mass media, advertising, africa, android, app stores, asia, carriers / operators, china, convergence, dumbphones, ecosystem, elop, emerging world, finland, google, india, iphone, japan,  location-based, market share, microsoft, mobile data & m-web, mobile money,  nokia, profits, retail & commerce, smartphone, statistics, strategy,  television, usa, users / subscribers | permalink | comments (105) | trackback  (0) january 20, 2012 what does kodak have to teach us?
i am sure there are plenty of uses for near field connections for all sorts of sensors to enable something like digital farming, to identify animals, but those don't need cellular network connectivity.
posted by tomi t ahonen at 12:02 pm in africa, asia, blackberry, business  users, carriers / operators, china, convergence, dumbphones, emerging world,  europe, forecasts, india, japan, location-based, m-commerce, mobile money,  scandinavia, smartphone, statistics, stats police, strategy, users / subscribers | permalink | comments (41) | trackback (0) august 30, 2010 convergence contest?
but even worse, is that  microsoft never used to have good carrier relationships.
apple revived itself in the pocket  electronics market, by re-inventing the pocket music player market with the  ipod and revived the whole company, with ipod mania helping sell more macintosh  pcs and boosting apple's margins.
some of the fantasies and science fiction views are dramatic yes, but the numbers do not add up.
but the application developers' interest in making apps is totally dependent on their belief that its worth their while.
today cameraphones outsell stand-alone cameras by 10 to 1.
$ 77 b ( $ 65  b) . . .
what of farmyard animals?
yet elop is  doing everything he can to sink that nokia-controlled first ecosystem and  replace it with what microsoft tries to call the 'third ecosystem'
the sad fact is, that on qwerty the keyboard on the e7 is truly magnificent.
zlutor on the truth.
elop had carte blanche to overspend on the launch marketing  activities as much as he wanted, and obviously no other ceo in any other  situation would have approved as extravagant marketing budgets for just any  year's 'regular' flagship model launch.
apple is a classic premium luxury niche  maker, who can hope to have 3% of the market - like it has with the macintosh  pc, after 26 years of fighting those battles with its 'revolutionary' pc.
apple revived itself in the pocket electronics market, by re-inventing the pocket music player market with the ipod and revived the whole company, with ipod mania helping sell more macintosh pcs and boosting apple's margins.
the big phone makers like nokia, samsung, sonyericsson and lg are not in the business of creating professional cameras.
similarly now, the touch  screen smartphone era.
what our research shows us that whether executed digitally or in our analogue world or indeed blended together - those organisations that have addressed these issues with conviction are the ones that have moved being stuck in a world of concussive ambiguity.
because most of all, there is nokia music!
if it is indeed true, you should be able to find experts saying so.
if stephen elop can deliver at least the 4 million lumia sales that nokia n8 and symbian s^3 did last year - without adding the industry growth, i would conclude that elop is spectacularly incompetent or irresponsible or foolish or rash, but perhaps the board can be forgiven to allow some more time for elop to try to make his strategy work.
softbank keitai, japan * . . . . . .
if we want to measure the 'migration rate' then currently one third of one percent of all banking accounts have migrated to mobile.
well  we have that data too.
this is  similar to what apple did to the pc industry in 1984 when it released the  macintosh, and all 'ibm compatible' pc makers had to adapt, where the primary  change was the shift to windows, microsoft's version of attempting to copy what  the macintosh offered.
but i said last february that the microsoft adventure for nokia was a  high-risk gamble.
today nokia's  carrier relationships are the worst they have ever been.
but microsoft was known  as the evil empire long before they announced the partnership with nokia.
190 m . . . . . . . . .
you lost customers trying to shift them from dumbphones to smartphones.
and rather than it costing say 200,000 dollars, i  charge you 150,000 dollars for the brand new ferrari.
(as i have written in my iphone strategy blog - apple now needs to diversify its iphone portfolio and until it does that, it will see erosion of its market share, most of all to android phones like the samsung galaxy)
yes the usa, known for such fantastic global hit phones as the palm, the danger, the hp, the compaq, the motorola - anyone remember the rokr - and yes, microsoft's own magnificent kin, the phone so disasterous, it was terminated 6 weeks after launch.
yes it was thebiggest management failure in the economic history of humankind, that we witnessed last year.
that changed last year when the advertising industry woke up seriously to mobile.
i have more important things to do, this blog is not a financial  analysis blog.
the market shares of those other 'big 5 handset makers' in  smartphones was almost every quarter worse, than their share in dumphones.
the whole camera and video experience was always  superior on nokia.
this is a very hard thing to do and few do it well -lego being an example of the few .
we are now fast approaching the 50 dollar  smartphone led by ultra-low-cost phone makers who specialize in the emerging  world markets, from global giants like zte and huawei, to regional players like  mifone of africa and micromax of india etc.
no credit cards etc needed).
now we have seen what the lumia is like, when managed by stephen elop, and it is an utter, comprehensive flop - on every single one of the 13 relevant issues that matter in the market success of smartphones.
the lumia series was not designed by  nokia top engineers in finland.
these were essentially the big phone makers like nokia, motorola, etc.
that  means that the world would match roughly what is normal in europe today.
how good was nokia sales in the uk in 2010?
take all that, and multiply that by ten!
the lumia is the  first time ever, that nokia has regressed in its features, severely.
it says a  lot about nokia that symbian survived this transition where palm died and  microsoft found the transition so difficult it killed off the windows mobile  platform to launch a totally new one, called phone 7 - while its market share  crashed from near 20% to 2% in just four years.
the total global mobile phone app market last year was worth 5 billion  dollars (said chetan sharma consulting).
but the first five months at nokia, when elop was in  charge, saw the nokiasmartphone unit sales grow strongly,nokia smartphone sales revenues grow dramatically, andnokia profits at the smartphone unit jump at a nokia record level.
if you always wanted a ferrari but couldn't afford it, perhaps you bought yourself a toyota mr 2 sportscar or a ford mustang.
in practically every country outside of north america, nokia was the top phone brand as recently as 2010.
morgan stanley forecasts that in 2012 nokia will  sell 40 million symbian based smarphones so the total for 2012 for nokia is 77  million.
that is the right strategy for nokia (while it would not  necessarily be the optimal strategy for a specialist niche maker like apple or  rim).
and blackberry obviously owns a lions's share of that market.
he looks at global trends  where the whole industry is in agreement - like now with mobile advertising.
there are lots of  opportunities, but also lots of endless pits of wasted effort in mobile, where  the profits will never come.
the windows phone os can seem exciting when first seen with its 'tiles' but on short usage it reveals how limited and unfinished it is.
not in 2010 when elop joined nokia as its ceo.
elop has been trying to sell the nokiasiemens networking  unit and is currently trying to sell the vertu luxury phones unit.
so very many of the stories we discuss here, will invariably touch upon nokia, or feature nokia.
there is a nokia branded phone in the pockets of 1.6 billion people!
less than one percent.
it was the golden age of cameras, yet two of the big 4 failed to survive this enormous opportunity.
but teenagers and retired  people? 3 sim cards?
one should not even bother to mention the word 'apps' not even  when discussing the business of apple or google today.
yes, it should do better in the us market, and stephen elop gets a fresh chance to turn nokia around in the usa, but the shareholders need to be told much more about how enormous the market is globally, compared to the pretty trivial-sized us market in phones.
this trend was  captured by the iphone but not invented by apple.
do you go asking your handset dealer about fragmentation?
so that was the 'old'  microsoft mobile.
so that  was consumers.
t-mobile, germany * . . . .
what do customers want in their next phone we have seen what consumers do with their smartphones.
the current windows phone edition does not support low-cost smarphones.
the employees did this with aliases, but were revealed from the website addresses they used.
the screen size is 3.7  inches, which is regressed from 4 inches on the e90 communicator four years  ago.
there  were stand-alone pdas yes, but no advanced 'smartphone' to give computer like  performance.
in countries like pakistan and bangladesh the electrical grid is shut off several times.. per day .. to conserve energy.
the lumia doesn't have fm radio, nokia added it gosh, years ago, about 2005.
nokia gave ever better phones with better features (e7, x7, n9) and the symbian os released ever better editions and the nokia ovi store became the second-bestselling app store and everything was improving at nokia.
kantar reported the same crash of nokia smartphone new sales in all european markets.
canalys statistics tell us that in china in 2010 in q2 the market share for nokia (obviously running symbian) was.. get this.. 77% !!!
sure, like madonna said  to wayne and garth, and monkeys might fly out of my butt.
the lumia series is a downgrade of nokia camera capability and will severely disappoint past nokia owners and not stand up to rivals today.
nokia  already sells basic non-touch screen smartphones at 100 dollars (price without  subsidy, ie without contract, where the iphone without contract costs 600  dollars) and is pushing the price point of cheapest touch screen smartphones to  that level too - already offering its cheapest touch screen smartphone at  nearly 100 euros.
but the hysteria about app stores is totally ridiculous  today.
now, what about specific decision criteria.
so apps will not win the battle for lumia.
ahonen index - top 25 companies  ranked by their mobile revenues rank (2010) .
except that this is nothing new.
for us in the industrialized world countries, it is no  hardship to pay 600 dollars for a premium smartphone like the iphone or samsung  galaxy or blackberry bold or sony xperia or nokia lumia 800.
these 13 reasons are not my opinions of what i think should be the cause or effect for smartphone market succes.
kindel said carriers are reluctant.
the burning  platforms memo is 1 year old.
in my journey in writing no straight lines, i have seen this organisational myopia as a constant red thread.
to me, always in mobile, a safe bet about the future has been to study the youth of today.
minolta and konica  have quit the camera business altogether.
but the migration of money is very slow.
i think the 3 mobile subscriptions per person concept is not  really viable for the whole global population.
is that sms and camera emphasis perhaps an anomaly?
google, microsoft and now vodafone have decided that the phones race is too costly to join (or to remain in).
but no, they called it windows phone.
so only one new sim card per car.
so  lets not review my view.
first, most of the points in the above apply to the  emerging world but in perhaps different orders of priority.
but i do know quite a lot about  the realities of digital convergence not only from studying the matter, but  from doing it myself.
lg made losses with its phones business.
i am not going to try to calculate the  proportional profits fairly by the about 50 or so companies that are the  contenders for this top 25 list, and do that also for the profits.
haha..  or maybe its the long dark winters, the snow, who knows.
he said that nokia had"lacked accountability and leadership" and that nokia "had not delivered innovation fast enough".
so they claim no fragmentation.
there was the famous dog who ate the nokia phone.
it is abandoned with the first 3 lumia phones.
$ 38 b ( $ 37 b) . . . .
» posted by tomi t ahonen at 11:30 am in 7th mass media, advertising, carriers / operators, citizen journalism, convergence, digital footprint, ecosystem, emerging world, forecasts, gaming, google, m-commerce, mobile data & m-web, mobile money, music, newsmedia, quotations, retail & commerce, revenues, smartphone, social networking, statistics, strategy, television, travel, virtual worlds | permalink | comments (43) | trackback (0)
there is the question about synergies between the networking unit, nokiasiemens networks and the rest of nokia.
so by december 2013, the world will have about 111 million windows  phone smartphones in use.
most  of the work mr elop will be doing is stuff we'd never even bother to write  about on this blog.
mobile as 7th of the mass media: cellphone, cameraphone,  iphone, smartphone tomi t ahonen & jim o'reilly: digital korea: convergence of broadband  internet, 3g cell phones etc tomi t. ahonen & alan moore: communities dominate brands tomi t. ahonen, timo kasper & sara melkko: 3g marketing: communities  and strategic partnerships also as kindle edition tomi t. ahonen: m-profits: making money from 3g services tomi t ahonen & joe barrett (editors): services for umts:
again i am not a lumberjack but to me  the clever way to use this technology is for some forest 'manager' to go  tagging trees that need to be felled, with the intelligent gsm-gps devices.
the  above picture is not the full picture for a nokia ecosystem.
the competition is so tight that competitors are  dropping like flies.
there is nothing in the lumia 800 or lumia 710 today, or in the lumia 900 late in the spring, that is better than what nokia had in the past, or what rivals offer today.
yes, about half of south koreans and the japanese have mobile digital money enabled phones and services, but its nowhere near yet where half of their economy would transit the phone, and they are the most advanced digitally converged nations.
there are 6 challenges i believe that organisations have to navigate to  thrive in a non-linear world.
this isnokia's current 'flagship' which fails in side-by-side  comparisons on many widely used and desired features and specs - with its nokia  brothers from years ago!
in africa, literally,  for about half of the population, the first radio they ever personally owned,  is the one that comes on the nokia phone.
in mobile, it is very small (as a percentage of the  world).
zune might - might - duplicate the modest success of nokia music in the best case.
while all the silly hype globally in mobile is about apps - i have been repeating and repeating and repeating, that it is a trivial - trivial - sized non-business (today).
the look and feel will be above average definitely but not on par with the  top phones by the rivals.
so far up to now, the converged opportunity has always ended up far bigger than the initial industries that got into it.
by nations of  the top 25, 5 of the biggest companies come from the usa, 3 from china, 3 from  japan, 2 from south korea, and 2 from france.
and the irony is,  that microsoft decided torebrand its smartphone  operating system when it switched away from windows mobile.
someone prefers a cadillac escallade, another prefers a toyota prius.
publicis ceo maurice levy said that within a few years "most of the music", "most of the information" and "most of the advertising" will "transit through your cell phone.
the windows phone os can seem exciting  when first seen with its 'tiles' but on short usage it reveals how limited and  unfinished it is.
there are literally thousands of news stories parroting that 20% number and the  third ecosystem baloney.
and if you are curious about email or social networking, they come far below.
compare to motorola which after the razr launched the rokr and today motorola is no more, as the bankrupted and split-up handset maker it was bought by google.
in 2000 when the cameraphone was launched the world's biggest camera brands were canon, konica, minolta and nikon, all out of japan.
i am a firm believer in mobile  banking and mobile money and payments.
that was  all more than a decade ago when i was actively involved in 'doing it' rather  than a consultant 'preaching it' haha...
that phone could have been nokia’s  future, instead it is forgotten.
these are all industries whose size is above 200 billion dollars annually - ie each is bigger than the total global handset business including smartphones and dumbphones and all phone based accessories like spare batteries and phone covers and memory cards etc (combined, is worth about 160 billion dollars in total - a small fraction of the 1.1 trillion dollar mobile telecoms industry where the majority of the revenues come from mobile services like voice, sms and premium mobile data services).
or having a phone that is  compatible with industry standards (the original iphone didn't even support mms  and even the current iphone 4 doesn't support the industry standard 3g video  calling, etc).
this is totally different input paradigm from the touch screen, and its amazing for nokia to have been competitive in both (touch and qwerty) at the same time.
so just to compare apples to apples, the new operating system launch led by the new flagship phone, lumia 800, would need to sell 6.4 million copies in the past q4, only to match what nokia did a year ago.
usually with a huge margin.
if we assume that to happen for the whole planet, that would get us to 13.6 billion.
so a quick review of where we stand.
nokia and microsoft had done full office suite integration years ago and it helped nokia and microsoft sell
the top 7 companies in mobile are carriers/operators.
in all but one of the above countries, more people access  internet content on mobile phones than on pcs (the exception being the usa  where the half-point will be passed this year 2012).
then yes, the lumia  900 and lumia 800 are good-looking smartphones,but not as good as  the iphone 4s while being in the same price range.
all factors were totally in the control of  elop.
this must be lumia's big market  and tomi is a total fool to not see it.
against its real rivals today, nokia is a powerhouse utterly dominating its industry, the true gorilla of the mobile world.
and readers, this is  again one of those ultra-long tomi ahonen essays, about 16,000 words (more than  a full chapter in a hardcover book) so go get yourself a good cup of coffee  before you start.
that made the smartphone space one of the most competitive of any  industries on the planet, with probably more global giant rivals than any other  industry ever in the same space.
elop discovers a significant nokia  advantage in its ecosystem.
the mac was always better.
nokia smartphones used to come with a  huge array of pre-loaded apps and the devices were overloaded with  technological goodies.
...  plus the applications and software industry enabled by the pc industry.
rim offers touch input versions of the blackberry, why can't apple give us a qwerty iphone?
is that the same for a contract manufacturer with near slave labor in taiwan who make phones and gadgets for dozens of companies?
our phone today is far more than 'just' a  pda-camera-music-phone.
same  is true of the various other cameras-oriented industries like kodak and  polaroid.
but that was exactly how it was with smartphones vs personal computers in 2000, or how it was with the mobile internet users out of all internet users in 2002, or what it was with advetising in 2006.
click here for nsl store related articles posted by alan moore at 11:28 am in books, business users, carriers / operators, convergence, ecosystem, engagement marketing, m-commerce, m-govt m-edu & m-health, social networking, strategy | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: business, data, design, entreprenurship, innovation, open, open data, open innovation, platforms, transformation nokia was prominently featured at the ces show in the usa this week, the biggest consumer electonics show of north america.
we thought that each household would have 6 connected gadgets.
it actually came  from india, from the tata motors factory (the company that makes the cheapest  car in the world).
[3] how do organisations learn to design for a more open world – which will be necessary for survival?
a global pew survey in december 2011.
yes, symbian too has lost market share, but very little.
so this blog is about those  industries that can expect far more than half of their total value, possibly  the whole industry, to migrate to mobile in the coming years and decades.
symbian is plagued with fragmentation  (although it was getting less so) and android is seeing more and more of it.
also this highlights how incredibly rare that  success by apple was with the launch of the iphone and how exceptional - truly  excellent - their entry was into the smartphones space.
the system is very  restrictive and limiting.
but the decision to sell away nokia's own mobile advertising arm, and turn nokia hostage to microsoft's advertising, isin the best interests of microsoft.
nokia will never  generate as huge profit margins as apple, but if nokia's profits turn now from  decline into growth - then stephen elop will be seen as the savior, the  miracle-maker, the man who defeated the apple iphone challenge and saved nokia.
then it is  time to think what to replace it with?
amplifying reason 3 - look and feel remember in the emerging world  nokia is the gold standard for consumers of mobile phones.
but in the  emerging world they do not have pcs in every home or every office.
so i cannot tell you really anything 'deep' and 'insightful' about mr elop.
it  would be an interesting market analysis to count all gaming-oriented  smartphones (like the iphone, most downloaded apps are games after all, the  iphone can be said to be the first globally successful gaming phone platform to  rival the nintendo and playstation portable..) and their value into the  videogaming software value, the proportion would be bigger still.
first,  remember that only 1 in 5 smartphones sold worldwide is a business/enterprise  smartphone.
mobile companies play such an important and extraordinary role in this future.
it will never happen.
beyond monster quarter selling 37m units of iphones to 25%  market share kodak analogy is not nokia, it is motorola; nokia analogy is not kodak,  its ibm the no straight lines challenge: be realistic imagine the impossible google search the www recent comments baron95 on the truth.
that diminished - but did not eliminate  - the role of the traditional music studio for creating music.
for us in the industrialized world countries, it is no hardship to pay 600 dollars for a premium smartphone like the iphone or samsung galaxy or blackberry bold or sony xperia or nokia lumia 800.
massive profits in this fast-moving and dynamic industry.
but all experts who have reviewed windows phone have immediately pointed out that they are not even up to modern standards yet, far less being in any way 'leading edge' technology.
nokia was once  for its main business being rubber.
watch every telco try and make sense of a word built on sharing, networking, participatory cultures, "we the media", and its like watching someone dance with two left feet.
the first xenon ie real flash  in 2007.
but it will see  more returns than its peers.
the problem here is that we only have 1.7 billion households on the planet.
this new nokia ceo blog is also going  to be, by necessity, a review of nokia's smartphone strategy.
kantar gives nokia's market share in the summer  of 2011 as .. 11%.
not a  strategy problem and not an execution problem.
the big screen on the lumia 900 is nice, but far bigger screens are on current androids including the monster screen on the samsung galaxy note.
its not limited to britain, obviously.
today top phones support at least 64 gb  microsd (and probably even bigger).
when i joined nokia in the 1990s,  the networking side was the bigger side with most of the staff and most of the  revenues.
they came in ranked.. fifth.
and lets be really really clear about this.
nokia does not give us a breakdown of the s40 sales, but nokia recently celebrated the 1.5 billionth s40 cumulative shipment number.
this bodes very well for nokia and lumia as these customers are coming in to replace their smartphones now in 2012.
without handset subsidies, a 100 dollar  smartphone).
elop would rather sell nokia assets, such as nokia's patent portfolio, its factories, its staff, and now, its mobile advertising unit - than allow the meego based n9 (and its sister, the n950) to be sold worldwide!
the camera industry correctly  forecasted a dramatic growth in consumer adoption of digital cameras for this  past decade.
if the customer wants a specific model, and that is not sold by that carrier,the facts tell us that the smartphone customer would be willing to buy another lumia or even another nokia smartphone - except that because of management madness, there are no others.
as we learned from universal mccann the advertising giant, one in seven media minutes is spent with mobile already today, as mobile is often the digital response channel for legacy media like television, radio, print etc.
" in reality, as it relates to mobile advertising (just like in mobile payments, location and mapping, app stores, videogames, music etc) nokiacaught the big trend, were indeed making the right decisions, and with the benefit of incredibly accurate foresight, once again, found itself years ahead.
this would not have happened if the phone and its software was designed by adults.
the iphone revolutionized smartphones.
the brand new  nokia lumia 900 won best product of the show.
certainly google, apple, microsoft, ntt docomo, vodafone etc see this and invest heavily in it.
i have given you evidence and facts and stats and end-user surveys, showing what smartphone users do, and what smartphone users want, and what other factors influence the purchase decision ie the carrier relationshiops the corporate purchase departments.
where ios and admob and others face strong competition in advertising from legacy mass media like tv, newspapers, radio etc; and obviously internet advertising - nokia's symbian platform is thedominant smartphone platform in all countries where legacy media is not established as a true 'mass' medium reaching even half of the population and where mobile access to the internet exceeds pc based access to the internet.
levi's jeans, coca cola drinks, sony walkmans, bic pens, hoover  vacuum cleaners, there is no brand ever, that had one quarter of the planet -  but nokia is almost at that incredible point, currently used by 23.5% of the  planet's population (and climbing)
nokia introduced the world's first  optical zoom (ie real zoom) camera lens in 2006.
some classic smartphone vendors and systems (palm, microsoft) have suffered in  trying to cope with this shift.
the brand of handset.
in 2010 nokia grew smartphone sales by 47% from the year before.
google decided to buy admob in december of 2009.
now in october 2011, morgan stanley reported that chinese consumers plan to buy their next smartphone preference for nokia had fallen further to 18%.
that isn't changing by mobile.
the reason nokia is now conducting a fire sale of its best assets is only due to incompetent management by its ceo, causing self-induced damage to nokia, its products, its carrier relations, its customers and its brand.
mobile alone is worth a bit more than one fifth of that, so there is far more from 'outsiders' to 'contribute' to this journey, than for the legacy mobile giants to do
and we are both large  countries geographically, with small populations, in the shadow of superpowers.
nowhere near as great as the iphone but nowhere near as expensive, and being of nokia quality and brand and sales channel - it will dominate the market.
but nokia dominates the 'old way' of dumbphones - bigger than its nearest rivals (profitably) - and it dominates the 'future' being far bigger than any rivals in smartphones, whether they are classic big phone makers like samsung or sonyericsson of motorola, or pure smartphone makers like rim, apple or htc.
this sale of nokia's pioneering mobile ad unit is how the ceo rewards those parts of nokia that did indeed"deliver innovation fast enough".
google mobile (+  motorola)
they only sell 2% of the  world's total mobile phone handset market today, but its such a huge market,  that it powers the majority of apple's revenues and the majority of apple's  profits.
$ 16 b ( $ 16 b)  . . . .
or having a phone that is compatible with industry standards (the original iphone didn't even support mms and even the current iphone 4 doesn't support the industry standard 3g video calling, etc).
if we say 6 connected gadgets in the home, we'd arrive at 10.2 billion more to add to our total.
i have wanted to update that list for 2011 and it got  delayed and delayed.
as we learned from universal mccann the advertising giant, one in seven  media minutes is spent with mobile already today, as mobile is often the  digital response channel for legacy media like television, radio, print etc.
and nokia invented the consumer smartphone,  utterly crushingly devastatingly dominates it, and leads it.
the fridge definitely.
voting for american idol, that kind of experiences.
sounds very  plausible.
what is worse, the next update to windows phone is aimed at the cheapest phones, so the flagships cannot even catch up to the rivals with the next windows phone release.
palm (but re-birth via hp), google nexus one, microsoft kin and now vodafone.
no! note, this is a nokia competitive advantage.
telecoms, broadcast and print media, advertising, computers, the internet, banking, credit cards.
i am  also including a fortune global 500 rank equivalent for those which would have  qualified for the fortune global 500 based solely on their mobile business and  what ranking they would have had.
so the sales reps learn real fast which phones have high return rates -  and stop selling them!
i  don't have a good measure for wristwatches and alarm clocks.
elop himself admitted the damage to nokia market share took him by surprise and  admitted later to more surprise that nokia plunged from generating profits to  generating losses.
thats only 50,000 trees to fell per year.
nokia has a vast library of videogames already formated for the small screen.
the current windows phone edition does  not support low-cost smarphones.
apple saw the trend to tiny pocket computers years ago and  launched the newton pda - a gadget far ahead of its time - which was a  technical masterpiece and a market failure.
motorola reported a surprise profit in its handset division, but that was a one-time gain out of a lawsuit settlement with rim.
and now once  again we see it with mobile advertising.
this is a common pattern in  the 'battle for the pocket' as i have chronicled from the pda vs smartphone  battle to the musicphone vs ipod battle, etc.
the above chart is indicative and approximate, rounded off to the nearest  one billion dollars.
the one sim cards is compatible with all south korean banks and  credit cards etc, so its just a question of a given bank or provider enabling  their account onto your banking sim card.
symbian iran . . . . . . . . . .
nokia had very accurately foreseen the future markets as they emerged, and provided suitable, low-cost smartphones for those markets and utterly dominated the emerging world.
and android will be over a billion smartphones.
so i can talk about  nokia's strategy and corporate health, in this age of the 'ultimate contest in  convergence' for the 5 trillion dollar prize, as i blogged last week.
the lumia 800 doesn't support hdmi out which came to nokia on the e7, and now some top rivals do it too.
every industry analyst with short term  quarterly forecasts has either reduced their target or held steady.
now, what about  specific decision criteria.
the top 3 are  not just from different countries, but based on different continents.
one year later in q2 of 2010, that had fallen to 4.6% !!!
kodak has been in restructuring mode for 15 years – cutting headcount,  closing factories, tightening belts and squeezing rocks for blood.
that market seems a great opportunity due to microsoft windows os and office suite integration with nokia smartphones.
windows is not  a loved brand.
ntt docomo, japan * . . . . . . .
android is 8 times bigger, apple iphone app store is literally 10 times bigger.
the statistics of smartphone sales reflect that too.
as it is stephen elop who has been lecturing the world about how the race in mobile phones is no longer one of hardware or software, it is about ecosystems.
its like toyota making a supercar that matches a ferrari..
posted by tomi t ahonen at 01:33 pm in asia, blackberry, carriers / operators, china, chinese handsets, convergence, dumbphones, emerging world, europe, google, india, iphone, japan, market share, nokia, revenues, samsung, smartphone, south korea, statistics, uk, usa | permalink | comments (4) | trackback (0) technorati tags: ahonen index, ahonen index 2011, biggest companies in mobile, tomi ahonen almanac, tomiahonen almanac 2012 (first, its been a hectic week of travel for me, asia, north america, europe this week, so apologies for this blog being somewhat 'delayed'.
to me,  always in mobile, a safe bet about the future has been to study the youth of  today.
i wrote about it before the iphone was ever sold,  promising the iphone would accomplish this to the industry.
telecoms, broadcast and print media,  advertising, computers, the internet, banking, credit cards.
and you are not quite familiar with all ferrari models, so you then talk with your friend and then you go to the internet to see the actual details about this particular ferrari model.
mobile data is worth 250 billion  dollars.
but nokia's symbian has currently over 275  million users worldwide.
but also, that there were  some good reasons as well, and that i could well see why the shareholders felt  that was needed.
and you cannot transfer apps and various content via bluetooth etc.
that was already done.
that is what you need if you want  a competitive advantage.
but i do know quite a lot about the realities of digital convergence not only from studying the matter, but from doing it myself.
when you take a bookstore and put it online like amazon, yes you can have some 'distribution' and 'warehousing' benefits and you can sell a larger catalog of book titles than the bricks-and-mortar bookstore down the street.
today all major pc makers have entered the smartphones battle and  all say the future of the computer is the smartphone (something i have been  saying for many years now).
their very first strategic partner and launch customer for microsoft's first smartphones, uk based sendo was driven to bankruptcy after lengthy court cases with the evil empire.
coming from microsoft's unit looking at the future of the pc side, cloud computing etc - will give particular insights into what kind of synergies may be useful in the near future - in evaluating the value of nsn to nokia as a strategic asset, or whether they try to get rid of it now while it is marginally profitable.
we are still about 6 billion short of the magic 50 billion number.
a paper based traditional travel agent would never ever have that capacity, except perhaps for the few 'domestic' airlines that serve their home town.
it was selected the phone of the year in britain.
nokia had a massive competitive advantage  that it simply refused to exploit.
$ 33 b ( $ 36 b) . . . .
when the battle for the pocket started a decade ago, the total value of all pocketable digital gadgets was about 100 billion dollars in very rough terms.
as carlota perez argues in her booktechnological revolution and financial capital, when the economy is shaken by a powerful set of new opportunities with the emergence of the next technological revolution, society is still strongly wedded to the old paradigm and its institutional framework.
nokia shipped sub-100 dollar  smartphones from 2009 as did samsung.
we just lost 2.4 billion connections  and a further 800 million metering connections.
the reality is that in the past 12 months, nokia smartphones have been winning against the iphone, not losing to it.
nokia can do the broadest product portfolio.
so its nothing new, and it was relatively easy to predict.
and if you are curious about email or social networking, they  come far below.
lets see what some others have said about digital convergence 'recently' - say past few years.
in the global brand survey of 2010 by interbrand, nokia  finished 8th best brand ahead of such icons as rolls royce, rolex, mercedes  benz, porsche etc.
and yet, with windows phone, microsoft's own departed exec admits microsoft has been making those carrier relationships worse.
the other big us carriers are not selling  any lumia handsets this spring.
third biggest  population is the usa, but fourth biggest?
he warned that nokia's competitors "are taking our market share with an entire ecosystem."
this is the desperation move by the small rival who tries by a few cosmetic  tricks to expand its product line.
the actual peak of the iphone market share has already  happened (the iphone had 17% of smartphone market share this time last year,  they are now down to either 14% or 13% depending on which analyst numbers you  look - every analyst now acknowledges that the iphone has peaked and is losing  market share globally).
so please understand, nokia's smartphone strategy is  the best in the business, and any shift to android for example would be stupid,  abandoning a huge market lead and total control of its future, to the whims of  google's 'do no evil' strategies.. most of all any business is about  profits.
he has sold various nokia assets from several sets of nokia's prime patents, to a whole handset factory in romania.
the global picture tells the same story.
by deciding not to make what is a competitive advantage at nokia.
145 m . . . . . . . . .
ie windows  phone, which only reaches the pockets of less than 12 million people in the  world, and is legitimately called at best, the 8th ecosystem.
and nokia  is also a network equipment maker.
if stephen  elop can deliver at least the 4 million lumia sales that nokia n8 and symbian  s^3 did last year - without adding the industry growth, i would conclude that  elop is spectacularly incompetent or irresponsible or foolish or rash, but  perhaps the board can be forgiven to allow some more time for elop to try to  make his strategy work.
if the market is big, and there is money to be made, then application developers will cope with the fragmentation.
some of us of a certain age have piles of kodak slides and snaps, even old  kodak cameras around the place.
india is rapidly growing into another giant as is indonesia, russia,  brazil etc.
symbian usa . . . . . . . . . .
but all experts who  have reviewed windows phone have immediately pointed out that they are not even  up to modern standards yet, far less being in any way 'leading edge'  technology.
so, last year with only normal launch, with a tight schedule which could not be changed (the n8 and s^3 were delayed to an embarrassing degree), with only modest marketing budget (nokia had just recovered from a quarterly loss) the n8 and symbian s^3 sold 4 million copies.
(as i have written in my iphone strategy blog - apple now needs to diversify  its iphone portfolio and until it does that, it will see erosion of its market  share, most of all to android phones like the samsung galaxy)
and the coffee maker.
the poorer people didn't suddenly all - billions of them - receive massive pay rises.
nokia factories  are the world's most modern and efficient, including the world's largest  handset plant in china.
elop discovers a significant nokia advantage in its ecosystem.
the camera industry correctly forecasted a dramatic growth in consumer adoption of digital cameras for this past decade.
and you know who was in charge of that project on microsoft's side?
its quite feasible for samsung or htc to  spam nokia branded smartphones via the windows phone ad platform.
amplifying  reason 7 - failing model of handset
and the rest is history.
what is the  bestselling category on the iphone  - games.
i counted on this blog that if we add both the  traditional pcs including desktops and portable computers, and the smartphones,  we get atotal market size of 465 million units for 2009.
166 7 (8) . . . . . .
minolta and konica have quit the camera business altogether.
and the first  evidence is already out.
nowhere near as great as the iphone but nowhere near as expensive,  and being of nokia quality and brand and sales channel - it will dominate the  market.
amplifying reason 4 - brand  is muddled you understand that if nokia was a rubbish brand in the  usa, but still ranked 8th most powerful brand globally in 2010.
there are those who say 'but tomi,  the iphone, the app stores, the software/internet side of phones'.
nokia had failed in the us market, so the nokia  brand cannot help microsoft in the us market, that would need to be the other  way around.
while the  replacement cycle for non-phone portable gadgets is longer than the replacement  cycle for phones, certainly a significant fraction of the total cumulative  sales of that number were replacement units, of better capability, sold to the  same consumer.
the lumia 800 doesn't support real media player files (that will play well with web services haha).
when you take a bookstore and put it online like  amazon, yes you can have some 'distribution' and 'warehousing' benefits and you  can sell a larger catalog of book titles than the bricks-and-mortar bookstore  down the street.
like the customer who has had a previous nokia and loved that its fm  transmitter lets you connect to your car without an ipod cable connector.
this enabled them to evolve to a new more sustainable economic / social /  organizational model the dangers of trying to innovate whilst looking in the rear view  mirror om malik writes, as my friend pip coburn says, turnarounds never turn.
there have been many commentaries of the issue, perhaps  the best direct response was by don reisinger at eweek.
and the technology need not have a cellular connection, the more logical way of  doing this is to coordinate with the home connectivity center (a home wifi  connection center and/or femtocell for example).
what if you find out that your 'genuine' ferrari was not actually manufactured in a ferrari factory in maranello italy.
if we assume that to happen for the  whole planet, that would get us to 13.6 billion.
and over time nokia management earned a  reputation that you could count on nokia's word.
would you feel betrayed?
there is nothing in the lumia 800 or  lumia 710 today, or in the lumia 900 late in the spring, that is better than  what nokia had in the past, or what rivals offer today.
just like in cars, consumer  preferences in mobile phones are very diverse.
a few of the 7-8-9 year olds perhaps, but thats not enough to push us far above current 6.8 billion level, in particular that for those few of the eldest in this group, we then have to balance out those elderly people who will be dying in this decade.
the lumia series is the first time ever that nokia not only was not the best cameraphone, but it actually regressed.
it may be time for nokia to get rid of nsn, and if so, a new ceo, in these times of poor profits, especially as an outsider and non-finn, with no internal loyalties to worry about - this is something stephen elop will no doubt be considering.
obviously the year has not been kind in the over-competitive  smartphones bloodbath (google and microsoft very visibly quit the smartphone  handset business already, but both are increasing their software and services
who  invented the cheap consumer smartphone?
nokia has its own gaming engine with graphics accelerators and all.
motorola went from profitable to loss-making in its strategic partnership with microsoft smartphones.
microsoft feels it worthwhile to continue building its mobile advertising unit  even as its reach across both windows mobile and windows phone smartphones,  currently, is less than 30 million.
its a nice number  yes, but what is the record-breaking achievement in the tiny sandbox called  iphone, is trivial to the big world of mobile.
blackberry's big global rise has been driven by this shift (as the youth - ie consumer not enterprise customers - have fallen in love with the blackberry).
[5] how do organisations develop a methodology for craftsmanship at a personal and more organisational level?
we just heard from morgan stanley that they project nokia and microsoft to sell 37 million lumia phones this year 2012 and 64 million lumia smartphones next year 2013.
yes, it should do better in the us market, and stephen elop gets a  fresh chance to turn nokia around in the usa, but the shareholders need to be  told much more about how enormous the market is globally, compared to the  pretty trivial-sized us market in phones.
now nokia branded  smartphones, when using the microsoft windows phone os, will be subject to  microsoft advertising concepts and spyware.
but that gets us only 8.2 billion subscriptions.
so before i discuss the os and the apps, lets do the more important factors starting from the top.
reason 5 - fails also on windows brand microsoft is a strong brand.
nokia put it on its flagship first in 2006 on the n93.
elop definition of leadership
music was  the first mobile content type in 1998 and today about 38% of all consumer music  spending is mobile (when we include ringing tones).
so in february of 2010 i went  through the trouble of calculating out the pure mobile revenues of all the  biggest players in mobile andpublished the world's first global listing of the  25 largest companies, when ranked only by their mobile revenues.
what of others who liked that book.
the lumia is the first time ever, that nokia has regressed in its features, severely.
it was  selected the phone of the year in britain.
one of the key components of a mobile ecosystem.
what does convergence enable remember that converence gives us new opportunities of better experiences and as an industry, vast new opportunities.
the key to unlocking this opportunity, so we can design for transformation  is through understanding the interlocking concepts of the six key principles of  no straight lines, these are: [1] ambiguity [2] adaptiveness
by 2011 the global advertising industry had embraced mobile ads from ford saying that mobile ads will be integral to every ad campaign they run on any medium, to us food giant kraft saying 'no mobile left behind'.
nokia was nothing like that.
i had already given my view of apple's strategy in smartphones  which i wrote during my summer vacation.
but windows phone was built to be the iphone-killer - so admit microsoft execs now - and it was made to be a consumer-oriented smartphone os, not a business-oriented os.
etc etc etc we still have a need for real music and real musicians and real creative arists.
and drool at the amazing opportunity that nokia business-oriented e-series smartphones can have with full microsoft office integration.
for anyone who actually owns an iphone will not play long with the lumia in the store, before knowing the iphone is a far better buy (if you already are an iphone owner).
he could decide their specifications, their intended target markets and end-users.
so the second most important  thing customers ask for, which was a strong nokia asset, has been ruined not by  manufacturing errors or market forces, by nokia's ceo with his idiotic  communications last february.
the market adjusted in two ways.
they are very  aware who is who and who plays naughty and who plays nice.
the global ad industry top management may be late to the mobile party, but they are dead serious about it now.
in 2010 nokia grew smartphone sales by 47% from the year  before.
so please understand, nokia's smartphone strategy is the best in the business, and any shift to android for example would be stupid, abandoning a huge market lead and total control of its future, to the whims of google's 'do no evil' strategies.. most of all any business is about profits.
i  can understand that the ceo of a company that is massively generating losses  (no matter what the cause) is now resorting to desperate moves such as firing  tens of thousands of employees and selling assets.
the african farmer who earns 2 dollars per day, can  neither afford to buy the iphone at 600 dollars without contract, nor to sign  up for a 2 year contract of 50 dollars per month to get a 'free' iphone on  handset subsidy).
these will  be tiny niche industries, but can be profitable and sell to very passionate  specialist customers, and those who specialize within the remaining industry  but manage to capture the premium end of that market, can make a nice living in  it.
the tomiahonen almanac is the  indispensible industry statistics volume for anyone working in this industry.
it went through the dog, and the next day, in the dog poo, the nokia  phone was there, and it worked.
the lumia 710 is yes, cheaper than the 800 but its still far too expensive to become any kind of mass market success (its price without subsidy is about 350 - 400 dollars).
i have written time and again, that  nokia was struggling in 2009 to 2010, and fired its ceo kallasvuo, replacing  him with elop.
motorola told us earlier this summer that a third of all smartphone buyers will not consider a smartphone that doesn't have a qwerty input.
but yes, apps and the mobile web had switched places (they did not ask about  the camera).
sure they will be important, sure.
nokia voluntarily foregoes a competitive advantage that it has always before taken advantage of.
i  made the joke speaking in toronto this week, that finland has just appointed  its first-ever canadian vice prime minster - arguably the ceo of nokia is  perhaps the second most powerful man in the domestic finnish economy
lets see what some others have said about digital  convergence 'recently' - say past few years.
lets say 2 utilities meters per household, and we add another 3.4 billion connections and arrive at 43.0 billion.
these will be tiny niche industries, but can be profitable and sell to very passionate specialist customers, and those who specialize within the remaining industry but manage to capture the premium end of that market, can make a nice living in it.
nokia's ceo stephen elop decided that one utter communciation  disaster like ratner effect is not enough, he compounded it with an osborne  effect.
his arguments are very good, but they are somewhat usa  focused and still do not tackle some of the biggest reasons why windows phone -  and nokia lumia - will fail.
so lets see how technologically advanced the lumia 800 is, the flagship currently available - the lumia 900 will release only on at&t late in the spring about the time when we expect the iphone 5 to launch.
that makes you wonder about apple's silly strategy of not giving us a qwerty variant to the iphone.
$ 36 b ( $ 40 b) . . . .
what price ticket would i have gotten, on what airline combination, and what miserable layaways on the travel connections?
and the  lumia 800? gotta fly to europe to get that.
thats a bit what the job of ceo of nokia is today.
that was the norm for dumbphone makers.
vacations are good for fresh thinking.
it  took apple and google to show nokia how to re-imagine the phone.
nokia has the biggest patent portfolio of any handset maker in mobile and has invented the second most aspects to mobile behind only ntt docomo.
thats  almost a quarter of the planet!
and that customer most likely went online somewhere to see what model they want.
the brand new nokia lumia 900 won best product of the show.
but cloudtalk asked what one thing smartphone owners would most want to improve -90% of us smartphone owners said they would want better sms text messaging!
i do not have to go into  the specifics of what all microsoft has been doing in the past to anger the  carrier community, as it is widely acknowledged that microsoft's carrier  relations were 'strained' or 'challenged'.
the victims of natural and man-made  disasters will not be accumulating multiple it devices.. 50 billion is  not plausible
and nokia is also a network equipment maker.
readhorace dediu's review of in memoriam: microsoft's previous strategic partners.
google, microsoft and now vodafone have decided that the  phones race is too costly to join (or to remain in).
while mass  market consumers are usually blissfully ignorant of the backstabbing in the  corporate world of partnerships, the carriers/operators are not.
and that customer most likely went online  somewhere to see what model they want.
welcome stephen elop
by offering a wide range of smartphone  models.
nipping at nokia's heels.
the lumia  series is the first time ever that nokia not only was not the best cameraphone,
except that it  wasn't.
nokia offers both of course as makes sense in this market.
there are almost no subsidies, so you pay exact real retail  price.
at&t wireless, usa * . . . . . . .
number can be seen as feasible
but there was only one handset manufacturer presenting at the two-day conference on mobile advertising.
he ruined nokia's brand.
so for example the  tns global survey of 34,000 mobile phone owners worldwide on their purchase  priorities with mobile phones, the rankings are different.
not only has microsoft been sleeping with everybody, but microsoft then awards its 'strategic partners' with a sexually transmitted incurable disease as a parting gift.
if one of its  three lumia models is aimed to be an iphone 'killer' then make the other two as  different and all three quite distinct from each other.
even at the height of 'beetle mania' meaning the iconic volkswagen original beetle, there was not a vw for every fourth person on the planet.
he damages the nokia version (or in this case sells it).this destroys a nokia native advantage 'in a war of ecosystems' and instead brings nokia ever more to the full control of microsoft, as its slave.
while the big  banking execs are mostly blissfully ignorant, thinking that launching an iphone  app is tantamount to a mobile strategy, haha, the tsunami wave is well under  way.
so lets go to the forbes article then.
nokia was not only the best  phone brand essentially in every country outside of the usa, canada (and south  korea and japan); but it was literally the most valued brand: period.
sharp and j-phone of japan launched the world's first  cameraphone in 2000.
it meant that previous global  giants of other industries had decided to enter the mobile space, like computer  makers such as apple and dell, like internet giants like google and yahoo, like  mobile operators/carriers like vodafone and hutchison, and softwre maker giant  microsoft etc.
kantar gives nokia's market share in the summer of 2011 as .. 11%.
i don't know if other smartphones support this function yet but obviously nokia has brought it to newer phones like the e7.
its not as good as apple did in 2007 but lenovo is at least taking a stab at this market, rather than how the cameramakers hid their heads in the sand and tried to avoid the truth.