dubturbo was created by an up and coming hip hop artist in residing in toronto, canada.
the potential rap and hip-hop audiences are large, and there’s plenty of room in this growing medium for many more talented musicians.
run your own studio and make the beats you want to hear!
is crime an effective way to sell rap beats?
the beastie boys, who first hit the charts in the 1980′s, introduced rap music to scores of white, middle-class suburban kids.
dubturbo was created by an up and coming hip hop artist in residing in  toronto, canada.
they occupy australia’s top spot in terms of hip-hop artists, in a field that’s becoming more crowded every day.
dubturbo is a great  way to get started in the rap music industry and gives you everything you need  to record and mix a professional sound.
with dubturbo, you  have full creative control of your tracks and the program is easy to use.
if you’re  not familiar with the beastie boys, you’ve missed out on one ofrap music ‘s original acts.
the group’s first ep, whiteboy wasted, has recently been released by producer soleternity, and hopes to appeal to a largely white middle- and lower class youth audience.
combine dubturbo with sonic producer for a full sound recording studio  right on your own computer!
mc bliss, also known as jonathan  notley, is an american.
four of the  group’s eight albums reached the top of the billboard album chart,  including licensed to ill, ill communication, hello nasty and to the 5  boroughs.
and best of all, it’s all  your own!
this is an exceptional deal for the artist who’s just getting started in the business.
photo credit: martinhoward, via flickr dubturbo can help you make your own beatsif you doubt the influence of rap music, take a look at some of the latest headlines.
how about a library of tutorial videos to help you learn how to  make the most of this outstanding music software package?
the beastie boys demonstrate that anyone can break into rap music and  deliver a successful sound.
the group continues to perform today, and most recently released an  album entitled hot sauce committee part two in 2011.
a licensed copy of dubturbo is a fraction of the cost of renting a professional recording studio and bringing in musicians.
this offer is, without doubt, the most economical way to get  your own personal recording studio set up and running.
they regularly perform live and still include traditional rap techniques  like scratching and beatboxing to achieve their unique sound.
today and start working on your next great career move!
we highly suggest  you check out thedubturbo beat maker, at such a low price there is very little  you can compare with to other machines ...
that means you don’t need to purchase any additional recording equipment or computer equipment.
that means you don’t need  to purchase any additional recording equipment or computer equipment.
photo credit: anitakhart, via flickr
the ep is fresco clean’s recording debut, but the 22-year-old is a  veteran battle rapper and has traveled the world in rap competitions.
rap music is here to stay and it’s moving the music world in ways og’s never dreamed of.
before if you wanted to make your own sounds, you had to have some pretty sophisticated equipment and hardware to produce your music.
rap and hip-hop are great musical genres because they’re flexible enough to incorporate local, regional and cultural tastes, while still staying true to the music.
in its earliest years, the group was associated closely with producing  legends russell simmons and rick rubin at def jam records.
if you’re an aspiring artist and are considering going this route, check out some of the best tools available on the market today, like dubturbo and sonic producer.
last week, the beastie boys, also known as adam horowitz, adam yauch,  michael schwartz and michael diamond, were inducted into the rock and roll hall  of fame.
the songs on whiteboy wasted are largely about partying and having fun, and could be a nice way to kick off the summer.
the group continues to perform today, and most recently released an album entitled hot sauce committee part two in 2011.
while many rappers write lyrics about their criminal exploits, and more than one rapper’s career has ended in a hail of gunfire, music producers are quick to point out that music, by itself, doesn’t promote crime.
the group credited  other acts in the emerging rap music genre for their influences, including bad  brains, the slits, the treacherous three and xray spex.
beat making is a skill, and with all skills practice makes perfect.
you can’t beat the sound recording quality of dubturbo.
all of the included samples are royalty-free, which means that you  can mix and remix the samples into your own work any way you like.
when you order dubturbo, you’ll not only get the latest software, you’ll also get four sample sound packs, tons of royalty free music and training videos that will show you how to get the most out of dubturbo software.
photo credit: altemark, via flickr 0 dubturbo beatmaker worth a look dj pauly friday, february 24th 2012 dubturbo beatmaker worth a look want to make your own rap beats but  don’t have a drum kit?
no one can say for certain, but certain music producers don’t mind the association.
the beastie boys, who first hit the charts in the  1980′s, introduced rap music to scores of white, middle-class suburban  kids.
you get higher sound quality when you record your beats, so your music  will definitely sound better when you distribute it.
you’ll get tons of  royalty-free music and you can start laying down your own sick beats!
the songs on whiteboy  wasted are largely about partying and having fun, and could be a nice way to  kick off the summer.
that’s what  some analysts are suggesting.
no  one can say for certain, but certain music producers don’t mind the  association.
beat maker software - getting started in beat making dj pauly we all love great sounding hip hop beats.
that doesn’t stop rappers like fresco clean and black lung from using rockford’s position as #9 on the fbi’s list of the most dangerous cities in the us as a way to market the group’s music and elevate its profile among the gangsta crowd.
black  lung has already released a number of indie beats, and has already released an  lp under his own name.
dubturbo combines the best  tools with the easiest-to-use interface in a single software package.
photo credit: martinhoward, via flickr 0 dubturbo can help you make your own beats dj pauly friday, march 9th 2012
this ability to access the audience directly and at a low  cost means that musicians and artists no longer need big studio help to find  their way into the center of the music scene.
you get higher sound quality when you record your beats, so your music will definitely sound better when you distribute it.
it's the same  in the beat making scene, lots of good producers and mixers rarely see the  light of day because lack of exposure and connections.
the group’s first ep, whiteboy wasted, has recently been released by  producer soleternity, and hopes to appeal to a largely white middle- and lower  class youth audience.
the more hours you put on the grind, the better your music will sound.
do crime and rap have a solid association?
dubturbo enables you to produce your own music, comes  with thousands of royalty-free sounds, samples and instruments, a full  four-octave sampling keyboard, and tutorial videos and delivers the highest  quality .wav sound files you need to produce crisp, clean recordings that are  ready for distribution.
that’s what some analysts are suggesting.
don't go and spend $500 without ever having any experience in the  field, who knows you may not like the rap industry after all?
hip-hop, as a musical  artform, has demonstrated itself to be among the most culturally flexible, and  has inspired musicians and artists from all over the world.
if any of this surprises you, it shouldn’t.
dubturbo is a great way to get started in the rap music industry and gives you everything you need to record and mix a professional sound.
you can wait if you want to, but when you make up your mind, you may find  that you’ll need to come up with more cash to get the ball rolling.
the group paired  famously with run-dmc for its raising hell tour in 1985 and first cracked the r  & b and dance charts in the same year with “hold it now, hit  it.”
but now, with all the technology & software, there are loads of beat maker programs to help you get started.
the beastie boys demonstrate that anyone can break into rap music and deliver a successful sound.
today new artists can create, produce and distribute their own music, often for a fraction of the cost it would take to go through agents and established music distributors.
before if you wanted to make your  own sounds, you had to have some pretty sophisticated equipment and hardware to  produce your music.
beat making  is a skill, and with all skills practice makes perfect.
there’s no reason to wait.
the easiest user interface and out-of-this world sound!
the more hours you put  on the grind, the better your music will sound.
getting  started has never been easier.
getting started has never been easier.
a licensed copy of dubturbo is a fraction of the cost of renting a  professional recording studio and bringing in musicians.
download your copy of one or both of these applications, and you’ll be making your own unique sounds in no time!
dubturbo is an awesome, powerful music production software package that’s available for both the mac and pc.
this special pricing offer won’t last forever, but you can bet that dubturbo will become the standard music production software for beat artists who want to make their mark in the music world.
while they’ve moved around from label to label, the group has also opened for some of rap’s most recognizable acts, including 50 cent, g-unit, and lil jon.
dubturbo enables you to produce your own music, comes with thousands of royalty-free sounds, samples and instruments, a full four-octave sampling keyboard, and tutorial videos and delivers the highest quality .wav
sound files you need to produce crisp, clean recordings that are ready for distribution.
most music  production software gives you beats that have already been mixed down to mp3.
since the group’s inception, they’ve sold more than 40 million albums world wide, about half of which were sold in the united states.
you can just download the software and start working on your musical career.
think you need to pay a lot to get some serious beatmaking software?
the rap and hip-hop worlds are waiting for  you to make your own impressions.
there are lots of beat making programs out there.
amazing sound quality when it comes to making your own rap beats, don’t settle for less  than the best.
download your copy of dubturbo today and  start producing your own style of hip-hop or rap music!
just because you can act, doesn't mean you will be starring in the next summer blockbuster on hollywood.
all of the included samples are royalty-free, which means that you can mix and remix the samples into your own work any way you like.
rap music can be a highly  influential form of music, but are some music producers taking advantage of  certain areas’ crime rankings to promote their music?
all the tools you need to self-produce your rap  beats are available in a single, awesome package.
the beastie boys were considered a  “groundbreaking” act in the 1980′s and served as many  fans’ first introduction to the rap music genre.
check out the latest craze in self-produced  music: dubturbo!
just because you can act, doesn't mean  you will be starring in the next summer blockbuster on hollywood.
the beastie boys are just the third rap group to be inducted into the rock and roll hall of fame, behind run-dmc and grandmaster flash and the furious five.
this is an exceptional deal for the artist who’s just getting started  in the business.
it also comes with a library of video tutorials that can help you get the most of dubturbo.
if you’re an aspiring artist and are  considering going this route, check out some of the best tools available on the  market today, like dubturbo and sonic producer.
honor for just the third rap act the beastie boys are just the third rap group to be inducted into the rock  and roll hall of fame, behind run-dmc and grandmaster flash and the furious  five.
once you have incorporated that into your music you can begin to set yourself apart and become famous.
dubturbo  is available for either the mac or pc and enables you to mix your own beats.
the beastie boys made it big with the help of an established music  producer, but they also helped to open the door for artists who want to produce  their own music.
but now, with all the technology & software, there are  loads of beat maker programs to help you get started.
when you do, you’ll get an awesome 10-pad drum machine with more than 40 kits!
photo credit: daquella manera, via flickr 0 group demonstrates hip hop’s international flair dj pauly friday, march 23rd 2012 group demonstrates hip hop's international flair
if you are first starting  out, it is highly suggested you purchase an entry-level software to jumpstart  your music.
when you order dubturbo, you’ll not only get the latest software,  you’ll also get four sample sound packs, tons of royalty free music and  training videos that will show you how to get the most out of dubturbo software.
this takes time, do not expect once you purchase some software and  that overnight you will become famous and start selling your tunes.
they occupy australia’s top spot in terms of hip-hop artists, in a field  that’s becoming more crowded every day.
since the group’s inception, they’ve  sold more than 40 million albums world wide, about half of which were sold in  the united states.
last week, the beastie boys, also known as adam horowitz, adam yauch, michael schwartz and michael diamond, were inducted into the rock and roll hall of fame.
you can  just download the software and start working on your musical career.
you can wait if you want to, but when you make up your mind, you may find that you’ll need to come up with more cash to get the ball rolling.
develop your own style  or signature in your music.
it's the same in the beat making scene, lots of good producers and mixers rarely see the light of day because lack of exposure and connections.
the group’s work has helped fund relief work in south africa as well as in victoria, australia.
right now, you can download  your very own copy for less than one-third of the regular retail price.
there’s no easier way to start in the music business today  than by producing your own hip-hop and rap beats.
don’t wait to get your copy of dubturbo.
hip-hop, when combined with the ability to self-produce, self-publicize and self-distribute music, turns out to be highly appealing to listeners all over the world.
they’ve toured the us several times and have released four albums, one of which was certified gold and the group’s most recent release, running on air, was certified platinum.
with dubturbo, you can record your beats as .wav files and then export them  to mp3.
you’ll also find christian rappers, asian hip-hop fusion beats and korean rap artist topping the charts with their own brand of hip-hop and rap beats.
download your copy of one or  both of these applications, and you’ll be making your own unique sounds  in no time!
dj pauly friday, april 6th 2012 does rap music promote the gangsta lifestyle?
they’re also hoping to catch the attention of  college-aged students who are part of the fraternity/sorority scene and other  middle class demographics who are looking for a voice.
rap masters ll cool j and chuckie d formally inducted the group.
with the built in sampling keyboard, you can also make your own samples and create or enhance the sound library that comes with dubturbo.
this takes time, do not expect once you purchase some software and that overnight you will become famous and start selling your tunes.
photo credit: fiestasandfiascos, via flickr 0 does rap music promote the gangsta lifestyle?
the group paired famously with run-dmc for its raising hell tour in 1985 and first cracked the r & b and dance charts in the same year with “hold it now, hit it.”
you’ll also find christian  rappers, asian hip-hop fusion beats and korean rap artist topping the charts  with their own brand of hip-hop and rap beats.
you’ll also get a  four-octave sampling keyboard and unbelievable recording quality.
the easiest  user interface and out-of-this world sound!
the tools available to new artists today have never been better.
with the  built in sampling keyboard, you can also make your own samples and create or  enhance the sound library that comes with dubturbo.
most music production software gives you beats that have already been mixed down to mp3.
export your beats from either program and  you’re on your way!
their first release, new york thrash, was a forerunner of the modern mixtape and preceded the release of their first ep, polly wog stew (1982).
new musicians find  the genre to be welcoming, and relatively easy to break into, compared to other  musical genres like rock.
with dubturbo, you can record your beats as .wav files and then export them to mp3.
today new artists can create, produce and distribute their own music, often  for a fraction of the cost it would take to go through agents and established  music distributors.
for everyone rap and hip-hop are great musical genres because they’re flexible  enough to incorporate local, regional and cultural tastes, while still staying  true to the music.
what’s even better is that it’s never been  easier for new artists to enter the medium.
however, first you have to have skill if you really want to make it in this industry.
unlike other genres, it’s both acceptable and expected that artists who are just trying to break into the music scene will create and distribute free mixtapes of their music.
we highly suggest you check out thedubturbo beat maker, at such a low price there is very little you can compare with to other machines ...0 beastie boys inducted into rock and roll hall
you’ll also get a four-octave sampling keyboard and unbelievable recording quality.
mc eso, an australian, is also known as max mackinnon,  and dj izm, a moroccan, known as tarik ejjamai, rounds out the group.
bliss and eso have been nominated for aria awards, australia’s version of the grammys.
the group focuses on its lyrics  and beats but has tried to avoid developing a predictable style.
mc eso, an australian, is also known as max mackinnon, and dj izm, a moroccan, known as tarik ejjamai, rounds out the group.
bliss and eso have been nominated for aria awards, australia’s  version of the grammys.
photo credit: fiestasandfiascos, via flickr does rap music promote the gangsta lifestyle?rap music can be a highly influential form of music, but are some music producers taking advantage of certain areas’ crime rankings to promote their music?
there’s no easier way to start in the music business today than by producing your own hip-hop and rap beats.
while many rappers write lyrics about their criminal exploits, and more  than one rapper’s career has ended in a hail of gunfire, music producers  are quick to point out that music, by itself, doesn’t promote crime.
dubturbo can help you make your own beats if you doubt the influence of  rap music, take a look at some of the latest headlines.
photo credit: anitakhart, via flickr « previous posts
check out the latest craze in self-produced music: dubturbo!
for aspiring new musicians in the rap music genre,  one of the best tools to have is dubturbo, a complete music-production software  package that lets you create your own musical style!
you’ll find a dog-sled racer who makes his ownrap beats.
hip-hop, when combined with the ability to self-produce, self-publicize and  self-distribute music, turns out to be highly appealing to listeners all over  the world.
with dubturbo, you have full creative control of your tracks and the program is easy to use.
make no mistake becoming famous in the hip  hop and rap industry is no easy task.
download your copy of dubturbo today and start producing your own style of hip-hop or rap music!
however, first you have to have skill if you really want to make it in this  industry.
of fameif you’re not familiar with the beastie boys, you’ve missed out on one ofrap music ‘s original acts.
this ability to access the audience directly and at a low cost means that musicians and artists no longer need big studio help to find their way into the center of the music scene.
the group’s work has helped  fund relief work in south africa as well as in victoria, australia.
how about a library of tutorial videos to help you learn how to make the most of this outstanding music software package?
trio takes to north america
think you need to pay a lot to get some serious  beatmaking software?
once you have incorporated that into your music you  can begin to set yourself apart and become famous.
you can get dubturbo for either the mac or the pc.
dubturbo is available for either the mac or pc and enables you to mix your own beats.
photo credit: daquella manera, via flickr group demonstrates hip hop's international flairif you’ve never heard of bliss n eso, you’re probably not alone, but it might surprise you to find out that bliss and eso are australia’s premierehip hop music artists, and have a professional music career that spans more than a decade.
download your copy of dubturbo and get started on your own music career!
0 beastie boys inducted into rock and roll hall of fame dj pauly friday, april 20th 2012 beastie boys inducted into rock and roll hall of fame
their first release, new york thrash, was a forerunner of the modern  mixtape and preceded the release of their first ep, polly wog stew (1982).
they regularly perform live and still include traditional rap techniques like scratching and beatboxing to achieve their unique sound.
you’ll find a  dog-sled racer who makes his ownrap beats.
that means you’re working with (and creating) second-generation sound right out of the box!
the ep is fresco clean’s recording debut, but the 22-year-old is a veteran battle rapper and has traveled the world in rap competitions.
download your copy of dubturbo today and start working on your next great career move!
the group met in high school and has performed together since that time.
if you’ve never  heard of bliss n eso, you’re probably not alone, but it might surprise  you to find out that bliss and eso are australia’s premierehip hop music  artists, and have a professional music career that spans more than a decade.
that won’t work when you’re trying to be  fresh and new.
bliss n eso is actually a trio of musicians.
all the tools you need to self-produce your rap beats are available in a single, awesome package.
what’s even better is that it’s never been easier for new artists to enter the medium.
when you do, you’ll get an  awesome 10-pad drum machine with more than 40 kits!
he was one of the pioneers to develop an affordable and  entry-level beat maker machine so that even the youngest of aspiring artists  can start producing their own music.
new musicians find the genre to be welcoming, and relatively easy to break into, compared to other musical genres like rock.
the potential rap and hip-hop audiences are large, and there’s plenty  of room in this growing medium for many more talented musicians.
originally, the band worked in the hardcore metal genre, but successfully made  the switch to rap early on.
if you are first starting out, it is highly suggested you purchase an entry-level software to jumpstart your music.
develop your own style or signature in your music.
the beastie boys made it big with the help of an established music producer, but they also helped to open the door for artists who want to produce their own music.
hip-hop, as a musical artform, has demonstrated itself to be among the most culturally flexible, and has inspired musicians and artists from all over the world.
this offer is, without doubt, the most economical way to get your own personal recording studio set up and running.
that  doesn’t stop rappers like fresco clean and black lung from using  rockford’s position as #9 on the fbi’s list of the most dangerous  cities in the us as a way to market the group’s music and elevate its  profile among the gangsta crowd.
mc bliss, also known as jonathan notley, is an american.
better still, dubturbo comes with a library of royalty-free beats you can use  to enhance your own sounds.
this  special pricing offer won’t last forever, but you can bet that dubturbo  will become the standard music production software for beat artists who want to  make their mark in the music world.
better still, dubturbo comes with a library of royalty-free beats you can use to enhance your own sounds.
he was one of the pioneers to develop an affordable and entry-level beat maker machine so that even the youngest of aspiring artists can start producing their own music.
they’re also hoping to catch the attention of college-aged students who are part of the fraternity/sorority scene and other middle class demographics who are looking for a voice.
in its earliest years, the group was associated closely with producing legends russell simmons and rick rubin at def jam records.
when it comes to making your own rap beats, don’t settle for less than the best.
export your beats from either program and you’re on your way!
the group credited other acts in the emerging rap music genre for their influences, including bad brains, the slits, the treacherous three and xray spex.
while  they’ve moved around from label to label, the group has also opened for  some of rap’s most recognizable acts, including 50 cent, g-unit, and lil  jon.
photo credit: altemark, via flickr dubturbo beatmaker worth a lookwant to make your own rap beats but don’t have a drum kit?
dubturbo is an awesome, powerful music production software package  that’s available for both the mac and pc.
the rap and hip-hop worlds are waiting for you to make your own impressions.
dubturbo combines the best tools with the easiest-to-use interface in a single software package.
combine dubturbo with sonic producer for a full sound recording studio right on your own computer!
take  dubturbo, for example.
rap music is here to stay and  it’s moving the music world in ways og’s never dreamed of.
make no mistake becoming famous in the hip hop and rap industry is no easy task.
the group focuses on its lyrics and beats but has tried to avoid developing a predictable style.
they’ve toured the us several times and have released four albums, one of  which was certified gold and the group’s most recent release, running on  air, was certified platinum.
originally, the band worked in the hardcore metal genre, but successfully made the switch to rap early on.
for aspiring new musicians in the rap music genre, one of the best tools to have is dubturbo, a complete music-production software package that lets you create your own musical style!
we all love great sounding hip hop beats.
right now, you can download your very own copy for less than one-third of the regular retail price.
bliss n eso aren’t your typical hip-hop musical act, and have been  very active in a number of charitable causes.
four of the group’s eight albums reached the top of the billboard album chart, including licensed to ill, ill communication, hello nasty and to the 5 boroughs.
download your copy of dubturbo
that won’t work when you’re trying to be fresh and new.
download and use dubturbo.
it  also comes with a library of video tutorials that can help you get the most of  dubturbo.
don't go and spend $500 without ever having any experience in the field, who knows you may not like the rap industry after all?
as your skills develop, every major artist has their own signature style  of mixing beats, i highly suggest that you do the same.
take dubturbo, for example.
unlike other genres, it’s both acceptable and expected that artists  who are just trying to break into the music scene will create and distribute  free mixtapes of their music.
and best of all, it’s all your own!
you’ll get tons of royalty-free music and you can start laying down your own sick beats!
that means you’re working with (and creating) second-generation sound  right out of the box!
black lung has already released a number of indie beats, and has already released an lp under his own name.
as your skills develop, every major artist has their own signature style of mixing beats, i highly suggest that you do the same.
bliss n eso aren’t your typical hip-hop musical act, and have been very active in a number of charitable causes.
the beastie boys were considered a “groundbreaking” act in the 1980′s and served as many fans’ first introduction to the rap music genre.