thank you for your reply, colin noga http://www.talesofgraces.com
and, we’ll continue to work on making the game great on the mac.
these guys worked their  butts off to ensure a very quality game with a super short turnaround.
it’s probably borderline, but is the popular 9400m supported?
it is waste of money!
we’ll be posting more information on the subject matter of mods soon, but in a nutshell, mods are not officially supported at the moment.
in addition to the civilization v mac special edition, we’ll be giving out some civ anonymous t-shirts, mugs, stickers, and posters throughfacebook and twitter, so start following us to get free stuff!
also, i needn’t have gone to all that trouble above.
even worldbuilder, firetuner, and nexus could be re-implemented, and indeed, much improved upon from their .net counterparts.
launching the installer *does* copy the assets to where steam expects them, and that takes some time, but it’s not supposed to re-download the game assets.
i was able  to, with no trouble, access the files and manually apply a number of mods  towards my single player experience, as with the pc version prior to release of  the mod tools.
i have worked  with xml parsers and modular reloading python programs, and can not see why  those methods would not be effective here, solely on the mac os x platform.
lua files, similarly, are simply run en lieu of the original files  present in the asset folders.
i, quite honestly, do not understand what sort of issues there could be  with utilizing the existing mod engine, or simply creating another one.
or run in bootcamp for better  performance yet.
i am interested in learning the reason to this, and was wondering if you had a more through explanation as to why this might be?
a brief follow up post from a little while later.
the hd2400xt presumably is a no.
(hint: in my case, the point was to not tie up my dsl forever downloading it.)
and we’re especially thankful  that we could be a part of it!
if you’re unaware of this giveaway, anybody that pre-ordered the game from gameagent.com (eitherboxed or digital) was entered in a random drawing, with one grand prize winner coming away with a sid meier-signed copy of the civilization v special edition.
to create an xml parser that reads pre-structured files and applies them to a database is less than a hundred lines of code, and to swap the source lua file for an execution of the code should be a mere handful of lines.
i guess i have no other choice.
now with the thanks out of the way, this is the part where i tell you guys  to gobuy civilization v mac if you haven’t already!
i feel reasonably confident at this point that i could whip up a quick script myself to apply any mod downloaded manually, backup the original assets, and replace them with an external app to effectively use mods in single player.
russ looney mr. tempus, i think it is safe to say you know your stuff.
namely the gt130 which is similar to the 8800gs which is supported, the 330m gt, which should be a pretty popular gpu, the gtx285, the hd4870, the hd5770, and most notably the hd5870, the current fastest mac gpu.
simply modifying the mainmenu.xml in assets to display the mods menu as in the pc program was enough to restore the menu.
also, to anyone that pre-ordered the game from gameagent.com, we’ll be announcing the winner of thecivilization v mac special edition signed by sid meier tomorrow (wednesday, 11/24)!
or run in bootcamp for better performance yet.
» 23  nov happy civilization v mac day!
it’s not supposed to work that way.
finally, we’ve got some fantastic deals planned for thanksgiving/black friday weekend, including, among other promos, 33% off nearly the entire gameagent store!
i think most civ fans agree that ditching the mod engine for lack of tools denies the creations created by our windows using counterparts, and the ingenuity of mac modders to run virtualbox, parallels, or bootcamp.
i would of course be interested myself in remedying this  lack, and would be available to work with core developers by providing  front-end interfaces for any external tools should they be deemed necessary (i  am, of course, assuming that all core resources will be kept internal).
confused and lost, i decided to  look into the matter myself.
it seems the mac civ v suffers from the exact same performance issues and  graphical glitches that the pc version running in a cider shell does.
we are doing our best to support people who want great mac software.
thanks to everyone commenting, and supporting mac software.
we first want to thank the rest of the team here at aspyr for working so  very hard on getting the civ v mac port finished!
posted by russ looney tweet
here’s to you, guys (and gals)–we  wouldn’t be here today without you!
we’ll have more information on this soon.
after a brief investigation of the resource files,  i determined that they were, indeed, the same as the pc equivalents.
@ckd, chris, guess what?
our game is a  native port that runs great in the supported systems – we fully support  the game, will be posting mac specific updates, and are of course working the  latest mac os versions as well.
i feel reasonably confident at this point that i could whip up a quick  script myself to apply any mod downloaded manually, backup the original assets,  and replace them with an external app to effectively use mods in single player.
tempus a brief follow up post from a little while later.
simply modifying  the mainmenu.xml in assets to display the mods menu as in the pc program was  enough to restore the menu.
the mod browser failed to connect, but pc mods dropped into the mods folder in ~/documents appeared and were fully functional (or, at least the three i tested were).
the download from gameagent.com and/or the physical media does negate the need for a steam download.
ten runners-up will be receiving aspyr t-shirts.
to aspyr, great job, you’ve just done another “great” “port” (did i just say “port”??)
gameagent, aspyr and the aspyr star logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of aspyr media, inc. in the u.s. and/or other countries.
if you’ve still got questions about the game, be sure and check out our previous civ v mac faqs posts (part 1, part 2, part 3).
we first want to thank the rest of the team here at aspyr for working so very hard on getting the civ v mac port finished!
the day has finally arrived–civilization v mac is here!
we’ll have more information on this  soon.
didn’t get your pre-order in time?
they are here to help!
we’ll be  posting more information on the subject matter of mods soon, but in a nutshell,  mods are not officially supported at the moment.
we’re also planning a whole new  round of flash sales on cyber monday (11/29), so be prepared for a weekend of  super cheap mac and pc gaming!
we’re also planning a whole new round of flash sales on cyber monday (11/29), so be prepared for a weekend of super cheap mac and pc gaming!
supported video cards: nvidia geforce® 8600, 8800, 9600m, gt 120, 320m ati radeon hd 2600, hd 3870, hd 4670, hd 4850, hd 5670, hd 5750
all features and full game supported.
i am  interested in learning the reason to this, and was wondering if you had a more  through explanation as to why this might be?
i would of course be interested myself in remedying this lack, and would be available to work with core developers by providing front-end interfaces for any external tools should they be deemed necessary (i am, of course, assuming that all core resources will be kept internal).
if you’re unaware of this  giveaway, anybody that pre-ordered the game from gameagent.com (eitherboxed or  digital) was entered in a random drawing, with one grand prize winner coming  away with a sid meier-signed copy of the civilization v special edition.
if you’ve  still got questions about the game,
i prefer to use the qt libraries with the pyqt package, but of course am flexible if external demands prevent high level cross-platform solutions.
i, quite honestly, do not understand what sort of issues there could be with utilizing the existing mod engine, or simply creating another one.
also, to anyone that pre-ordered the game from gameagent.com, we’ll  be announcing the winner of thecivilization v mac special edition signed by sid  meier tomorrow (wednesday, 11/24)!
finally, we’ve got some fantastic deals planned for  thanksgiving/black friday weekend, including, among other promos, 33% off  nearly the entire gameagent store!
i think most civ fans agree that ditching the  mod engine for lack of tools denies the creations created by our windows using  counterparts, and the ingenuity of mac modders to run virtualbox, parallels, or  bootcamp.
you can get the full skinny bysigning up for and/orreading our newsletter!
–you’ll have another opportunity to win a signed special  edition and other awesome civilization swag this thanksgiving weekend!
http://www.aspyr.com
lua files, similarly, are simply run en lieu of the original files present in the asset folders.
when i go to order history at gameagent.com, there is nothing there!
next we want to thank the legions of fans that have supported aspyr, gameagent, and the civilization series!
i was able to, with no trouble, access the files and manually apply a number of mods towards my single player experience, as with the pc version prior to release of the mod tools.
will civilization 5 mac be available soin in canada??
the third civ v mac faq has been  updated with some new questions and information, including new information on  supported video cards, so check it out again to get the new scoop.
please do not buy mac version from steam or retail version.
@tempus … lua mods will work.
this civilization v coming to macs on november 23 devdiary: sid meier’s civilization v mac civilization v is coming to the mac!
http://www.gameagent.com
related posts: tags: 2k, aspyr, civ v, civilization, civilization v, firaxis posted aspyr news, civilization, mac gaming | hello russ looney, i have heard you mention that civ 5 will not be supporting mods.
well, we’ve got good
i also recognise the use of dx9 in the config xml file.
« civilization v mac  faqs, v3 [updated] congrats to our civ v mac pre-order contest winners!
you may contact me through the personal e-mail attached to this comment, if need be.
finally, we want to thank 2k and firaxis for putting together one of the  finest strategy titles ever created.
i have not extensively worked with mods, as i was waiting for both the mac  product and multiplayer mods to become available, but, as i understand it, the  game reads a plethora of data from an sqlite database, and simply modifies this  database according to the specifications of the xml files included with the mod  in question.
our game is a native port that runs great in the supported systems – we fully support the game, will be posting mac specific updates, and are of course working the latest mac os versions as well.
the third civ v mac faq has been updated with some new questions and information, including new information on supported video cards, so check it out again to get the new scoop.
i know that’s a crappy  answer, but i want to make sure i have all the information necessary before  posting much more.
i have not extensively worked with mods, as i was waiting for both the mac product and multiplayer mods to become available, but, as i understand it, the game reads a plethora of data from an sqlite database, and simply modifies this database according to the specifications of the xml files included with the mod in question.
@tempus: is civ5 cider based?
i felt very disappointed after purchasing this game, i thought i don’t have to install bootcamp to get it run smoothly but now
after a brief investigation of the resource files, i determined that they were, indeed, the same as the pc equivalents.
these are the only mods that are  available for pc or mac right now.
as for the tools themselves, the tools provided by firaxis are, quite frankly, the pits, and you’re pretty much no better off using a text editor en lieu of modbuddy (it’s only a matter of knowledge and documentation, the workflow hardly seems improved).
to  create an xml parser that reads pre-structured files and applies them to a  database is less than a hundred lines of code, and to swap the source lua file  for an execution of the code should be a mere handful of lines.
long rant aside, i was wondering what the actual specific reasons were for removing the mod interface and functionality from the mac version, be they technical or fiscal.
thank you for supporting us!!!
i have purchased the game, but can’t find the download link at all.
some enterprising players have already begun doing so, in fact, and at least three tools replacing facets of these programs exist, and with significant improvement over the original functionality (for the windows platform, of course).
if you’re having problems, please contact our support team at support@aspyr.com.
i  prefer to use the qt libraries with the pyqt package, but of course am flexible  if external demands prevent high level cross-platform solutions.
to prospective buyers of civ v, save yourself a download, install steam in a cider shell and grab the pc version.
i highly suspect the majority will be  functional.
everyone’s been super awesome since the civ v mac announcement, and we thank everyone for their  thoughts, comments, and, most of all, their patience!
you may contact me through the personal e-mail attached to this comment, if  need be.
it evens  sports the (dx9) text in the title bar in windowed mode.
i don’t think i need to draw any explicit conclusions from this, right?
i bought the digital download which was a tad under 3gb.
everyone’s been super awesome since the civ v mac announcement, and we thank everyone for their thoughts, comments, and, most of all, their patience!
i highly suspect the majority will be functional.
posted  aspyr news, civilization, mac gaming | http://www.talesofgraces.com
tempus hello russ looney, i have heard you mention that civ 5 will not be supporting mods.
well, we’ve got good news–you’ll have another opportunity to win a signed special edition and other awesome civilization swag this thanksgiving weekend!
thank you for your reply, colin noga -tempus
tags: 2k, aspyr, civ v, civilization, civilization v, firaxis
next we want to thank the legions of fans that have supported aspyr,  gameagent, and the civilization series!
in addition, they’restill working what’s left of their butts off to get the mac version up to speed with the pc via all the necessary patches and dlc.
i have purchased the game, but can’t find the download link at  all.
why then when i activate on steam like the readme says am i downloading the entire thing again?
to prospective buyers of civ v, save yourself a download, install steam in  a cider shell and grab the pc version.
these are the only mods that are available for pc or mac right now.
you can get the full skinny bysigning up  for and/orreading our newsletter!
even worldbuilder, firetuner, and nexus could be re-implemented, and  indeed, much improved upon from their .net counterparts.
in  addition, they’restill working what’s left of their butts  off to get the mac version up to speed with the pc via all the necessary  patches and dlc.
in  addition to the civilization v mac special edition, we’ll be giving out  some civ anonymous t-shirts, mugs, stickers, and posters throughfacebook and  twitter, so start following us to get free stuff!
instead buy pc version and run it in bootcamp.
be sure and check out our previous civ v  mac faqs posts (part 1, part 2, part 3).
thanks for the cyber monday promotion!
it seems the mac civ v suffers from the exact same performance issues and graphical glitches that the pc version running in a cider shell does.
some enterprising  players have already begun doing so, in fact, and at least three tools  replacing facets of these programs exist, and with significant improvement over  the original functionality (for the windows platform, of course).
michael @tempus … lua mods will work.
thanks again to everyone, and happy civ v mac day!
the emulator stuff doesn’t help anyone on a mac today.
and we’re especially thankful that we could be a part of it!
it evens sports the (dx9) text in the title bar in windowed mode.
now with the thanks out of the way, this is the part where i tell you guys to gobuy civilization v mac if you haven’t already!
©2012 aspyr media, inc.
i have worked with xml parsers and modular reloading python programs, and can not see why those methods would not be effective here, solely on the mac os x platform.
your installer didn’t do anything but open steam, so why package 3gb of data it isn’t using? chris: it could be worse; i have the physical media, and steam still starts downloading several gb of data when i run the installer!
confused and lost, i decided to look into the matter myself.
i know that’s a crappy answer, but i want to make sure i have all the information necessary before posting much more.
long rant aside, i was wondering what the actual specific reasons were for  removing the mod interface and functionality from the mac version, be they  technical or fiscal.
mr. tempus, i think it is safe to say you know your stuff.
i don’t think i  need to draw any explicit conclusions from this, right?
as for the tools themselves, the tools provided by firaxis are, quite frankly,  the pits, and you’re pretty much no better off using a text editor en  lieu of modbuddy (it’s only a matter of knowledge and documentation, the  workflow hardly seems improved).
what was the point of the boxed game again?
here’s to you, guys (and gals)–we wouldn’t be here today without you!
finally, we want to thank 2k and firaxis for putting together one of the finest strategy titles ever created.
these guys worked their butts off to ensure a very quality game with a super short turnaround.
the mod browser failed to connect, but pc mods  dropped into the mods folder in ~/documents appeared and were fully functional  (or, at least the three i tested were).
all other trademarks belong to their respective owners.
i noticed your supported video card list is missing several gpus that is hard to see why they wouldn’t be supported.