apple + shift + 3 the mac uses a one-button mouse.
when i did it on the mac  using its applets, it took me 4-5 hours, and the end product was much  better!
vmware’s fusion uses the same  approach on the mac as it does in its server software.
the mac reputation macs are thought to be systems  that run creative software better (music, graphics, and video editing) and that  give users a better ‘personal’ experience.
the monitor is much nicer than my pc monitors (desktop and notebook).
(an example  would be comparing microsoft’s paint with adobe’s  illustrator.)  if one will only be using the bundled applications,  there’s no doubt those provided with the mac os are better.
if you’ve got the budget, it’s okay to say, “yes.”
maybe 10.7.3 mbs, inc. rt @jasonmlee: out with the old... #citrt http://t.co/wjpabze2 //
i also found that you can plug a two-button mouse into the mac and  get all of the functionality available in the pc.
tags: mac trackback from your site.
while there were ways to access pc software from a mac, the experience was usually a bad one, and few pursued the option strongly.
pc-on-a-mac fusion observations the first thing i noticed was how fast the pc ran!
like the insert and print screen keys!
the mac i used for testing was  a macbook pro running mac os x 10.4.11 (tiger) with a 2.4ghz intel core 2 duo  processor, 4gb ram, 160gb hard drive, and 17-inch monitor.
for a comparison, i took our vacation slides from this summer and made them  into a dvd.
there are many paths, grasshopper… there are  at least five ways to run pc software on a mac: remote desktop via terminal services mac os x’s boot camp (booting up in whichever operating system you  want… switching means restarting the computer) swsoft’s parallels microsoft’s virtual pc for mac vmware’s fusion
i also setup  virtual linux and windows vista computers and had success in each.
© 2008 by nick b. nicholaou, all rights reserved president, ministry business services, inc.
when i did it on the pc using windows’ applets, it took me 26-28 hours.
i set up a virtual pc having one  processor, 1gb of ram, and a 60gb hard drive.
when i did it on the pc using windows’ applets, it took  me 26-28 hours.
mac support issues i work in both oss constantly, and  i have been disappointed with the mac os (leopard).
mac support issues i work in both oss constantly, and i have been disappointed with the mac os (leopard).
now, though, we’re having to re-examine the pc vs mac decision.
but one thing surprised me: the mac’s keyboard illuminates in low light— very nice!
we can make them work with pcs on the same network, and even run pc applications on them very well.
escalated support told  me that whenever there are updates needing a restart, they should be installed  separately.
10.7 lion is a big thumbs down.
a couple of frustrations the mac keyboard is missing keys!
some programs, like microsoft office, release os-specific versions where  each is a year or two after the other, so whichever was released last is often  better.
it took some research, but i found the following keystrokes for pc users working on a mac: the mac uses a one-button mouse.
the software installation was  surprisingly easy, and setup was too.
i set up a virtual pc having one processor, 1gb of ram, and a 60gb hard drive.
but few on church and ministry it staffs can support them, relegating their support to the mac user.
basic mac os apps the mac os (operating system) comes with  bundled software, like windows does, to help users manage creative files.
full applications full featured applications for  these tasks can usually be bought to run on either the mac or pc.
these are sometimes referred to as applets because they’re simple applications when compared to their commercial counterparts.
fn + delete (otherwise it’s a backspace key)
my high-end macbook pro cost easily double what i would have spent for a similarly equipped pc.
when users are responsible for their own support, they rarely backup their  files.
the pc’s current version is 2007, and the mac’s is  2008.
and the speakers are terrific!
when something happens (like what happened twice to me!), if their  files aren’t backed up, they will have to spend quite a bit of time  recreating them.
pc-on-a-mac fusion observations the first thing i  noticed was how fast the pc ran!
that makes sense, of course, when you consider that it’s virtual and all running in the mac’s ram.
pc-centric churches usually say, “no.”
this makes using the mac in low light enjoyable and easy… something i’ve always felt was missing from my pc notebooks.
they definitely cost more, but saying, “no.”
both were caused by weaknesses in the os that allowed it to  corrupt itself: when i first received this new mac, it said it needed fourteen  updates.
this might be true, depending on the kind of user one is.
the mac mystique macs have an undeniable mystique  about them, and it’s causing many on our teams to request them.
what’s the bottom line?
it then asked me to insert  my windows installation disk, and from there on it was like setting up any  other windows pc.
that makes sense, of course, when you  consider that it’s virtual and all running in the mac’s ram.
i also setup virtual linux and windows vista computers and had success in each.
i also found that you can plug a two-button mouse into the mac and get all of the functionality available in the pc.
i also found that i couldn’t extend any pc programs across multiple  monitors… they all must run in a single monitor.
both were caused by weaknesses in the os that allowed it to corrupt itself: the mac mystique macs have an undeniable mystique about them, and it’s causing many on our teams to request them.
vmware assures me that functionality is coming in an update.
mbs, inc. what are the top reasons you want to move to the cloud?
honestly, i was surprised.
requests for macs will keep coming, and they can work in your environment.
mbs, inc. rt @jasonpowell: whoever did this cabling should be fired immediately #citrt http://t.co/h4rf1lan //
it took some research, but i found the  following keystrokes for pc users working on a mac: insert =
so i decided to do my testing using their fusion  product to create a virtual pc on the mac.
editing pictures, video, and sound are all similarly better in mac applets.
i could run all of the pc programs i  normally run on a pc very nicely using vmware’s fusion!
you create a virtual pc following easy prompts asking how large the hard drive should be, how much ram it should have, etc.
full applications full featured applications for these tasks can usually be bought to run on either the mac or pc.
before that happened, pc software couldn’t run well on a mac.
and this is from an unrepentant apple fanboy.#citrt //
vmware assures me  that functionality is coming in an update.
it took my pc applications and allowed them to run as normal floating ‘windows’ on the mac desktop!
if one will only be using the bundled applications, there’s no doubt those provided with the mac os are better.
that includes ms  office 2007 (including outlook and visio), sql databases, bible study software  (libronix), and utilities i use to setup microsoft networks.
vmware’s fusion uses the same approach on the mac as it does in its server software.
it was worth it because supporting macs is part of our business model, but i would otherwise have a hard time justifying the cost difference.
macs cost more than pcs.
to mac requests pretty quickly.
a couple of frustrations the mac keyboard is missing  keys!
and the delete key  acts like a backspace key!
(an example would be comparing microsoft’s paint with adobe’s illustrator.)
his view of me doesn’t control my choice to honor him.
it was worth it because supporting macs is part of our business  model, but i would otherwise have a hard time justifying the cost difference.
but one thing surprised me:  the mac’s keyboard  illuminates in low light— very nice!
pc-centric churches usually say,  “no.”
fusion also gave me the option of setting up the ability to share folders  between the two desktops!
i am re-examining this issue from two perspectives: there are many paths, grasshopper… there are at least five ways to run pc software on a mac: in my initial research i found many complaining about all of these possibilities except for parallels and fusion.
i discovered that right-click  functionality is available using the mac’s mouse while pressing the ctrl  key.
they give you suggestions along with minimum and maximum ranges.
it turned out very nice.
you create a virtual pc following easy prompts asking how large the hard drive should  be, how much ram it should have, etc.  they give you suggestions along  with minimum and maximum ranges.
make sure you have a team ready to help with the initial setup and ongoing support of your macs, and you’ll be okay.
if you’ve got the budget, it’s okay to say,  “yes.”
there are some nice features on the mac.
they definitely cost  more, but saying, “no.”
it took my  pc applications and allowed them to run as normal floating  ‘windows’ on the mac desktop!
the monitor is much nicer  than my pc monitors (desktop and notebook).
mac  users may argue that, but there’s really no argument.
since the decision for hardware is best made based on the software in use, the pcvs mac issue had been relatively easy.
but macs can run pc software now, so the question is going to keep coming.
the software installation was surprisingly easy, and setup was too.
honestly, that hasn’t happened to me in a windows os for many years.
and the speakers are  terrific!
written by nick b. nicholaou on january 1, 2008.
historically this decision has been driven by the software / applications in use.
many it professionals are working with vmware’s virtual server products, and our firm has had great success with them.
i discovered that right-click functionality is available using the mac’s mouse while pressing the ctrl key.
is there intrinsic value in using a mac to  accomplish our tasks that justifies the additional cost?
then i decided to try fusion’s ‘unity’ mode.
so i decided to do my testing using their fusion product to create a virtual pc on the mac.
home > articles > ‘can i get a  mac?’
this technology works, and is ready to help us as we focus on building the kingdom.
apple recently began selling macs that use the same intel processors pcs use.
reprinted from christian computing magazine there’s a lot of buzz these days about macs, and many in ministry are asking for them.
historically this decision has been driven by the  software / applications in use.
so my pc applications looked  very similar to my mac applications!
before that  happened, pc software couldn’t run well on a mac.  while there were  ways to access pc software from a mac, the experience was usually a bad one,  and few pursued the option strongly.
i’ve had to  completely rebuild it from the ground up twice in the last month!
fusion also gave me the option of setting up the ability to share folders between the two desktops!
and though there’s no command prompt function, there is a similar mac  function called terminal which opens a window you can run unix commands in.
and though there’s no command prompt function, there is a similar mac function called terminal which opens a window you can run unix commands in.
it then asked me to insert my windows installation disk, and from there on it was like setting up any other windows pc.
so my pc applications looked very similar to my mac applications!
mbs, inc. rt @rickwarren
mac cost macs cost more than windows pcs.
since the decision for hardware is  best made based on the software in use, the pcvs mac issue had been  relatively easy.
the mac i used for testing was a macbook pro running mac os x 10.4.11 (tiger) with a 2.4ghz intel core 2 duo processor, 4gb ram, 160gb hard drive, and 17-inch monitor.
username: password: remember me @macrumors:
we  can make them work with pcs on the same network, and even run pc applications  on them very well.
honestly, that hasn’t happened to me in a windows os for many  years.
this makes using the mac in  low light enjoyable and easy… something i’ve always felt was  missing from my pc notebooks.
can one have a total ‘pc running pc software’
make sure you have a team ready to help with the  initial setup and ongoing support of your macs, and you’ll be okay.
ios blog: ios surpasses os x in share of u.s. web traffic http://t.co/y9yjx2es mbs, inc. new article released to publishers on the consumeriztion of it.
the problems are: those who will use them are likely called to minister, not to support  computers.
reprinted from christian computing magazine there’s a lot of buzz these days about macs, and many in ministry are  asking for them.
and that functionality  works in mac programs too!
and that functionality works in mac programs too!
these are sometimes referred to as applets because they’re simple  applications when compared to their commercial counterparts.
giving them support responsibility means they’ll be  doing so at least some of the time we’d rather see them fulfilling their  call to minister.
but few on church and ministry it staffs can support them, relegating their  support to the mac user.
mac users may argue that, but there’s really no argument.
in  those cases, the software is pretty close to the same in capability, with two  exceptions: the underlying os requires some things to be laid out and approached  differently.
office 2008 fixes some issues i had with 2007.
i am re-examining this issue from two perspectives: what does it take to run pc software on a mac?  what are the  limitations?
once someone gets used to the different approaches on either  side, they will prefer doing their work in their familiar os.
in my initial research i found many complaining about all of these  possibilities except for parallels and fusion.
i told it to install them.
my high-end  macbook pro cost easily double what i would have spent for a similarly equipped  pc.
we need an updated  response, and this article may help.
apple recently began  selling macs that use the same intel processors pcs use.
okay, pc apps run well on a mac… but are they worth it?
i believe the os should know how to manage that.
it should know that  certain files cannot have their rights changed to protect the integrity of the  system.
i could run all of the pc programs i normally run on a pc very nicely using vmware’s fusion!
little did i know that doing so  with three needing restarts would corrupt the os!
in those cases, the software is pretty close to the same in capability, with two exceptions: mac cost macs cost more than windows pcs.
requests for macs will  keep coming, and they can work in your environment.
that includes ms office 2007 (including outlook and visio), sql databases, bible study software (libronix), and utilities i use to setup microsoft networks.
for a comparison, i took our vacation slides from this summer and made them into a dvd.
this might be  true, depending on the kind of user one is.
that corrupted the os again.
© 2008 by nick b. nicholaou, all rights reserved president, ministry  business services, inc.
a function i wanted to run between my virtual pc and my mac didn’t  have some file rights it needed.
and the delete key acts like a backspace key!
basic mac os apps the mac os (operating system) comes with bundled software, like windows does, to help users manage creative files.
the mac reputation macs are thought to be systems that run creative software better (music, graphics, and video editing) and that give users a better ‘personal’ experience.
many it professionals are  working with vmware’s virtual server products, and our firm has had great  success with them.
when i did it on the mac using its applets, it took me 4-5 hours, and the end product was much better!
we need an updated response, and this article may help.
i also found that i couldn’t extend any pc programs across multiple monitors… they all must run in a single monitor.
to read an advance copy, click here:http://t.co/ckrppqf8 mbs, inc. rt @itsscottwilder: @mbsnick i agree.
i've great respect for him@dyos rick,how do u react to macarthur?
but macs can run pc  software now, so the question is going to keep coming.
this  technology works, and is ready to help us as we focus on building the kingdom.
i'm looking for top motivators for pastors…#citrt #nacba mbs, inc. new post on texting abuse & misuse: http://t.co/ckrppqf8 #citrt #nacba mbs, inc. new post on texting abuse & misuse: http://t.co/ckrppqf8 #citrt #nacba mbs, inc. for mbs retainer clients: spec sheet updated, includes new minimum dell specs that unfortunately also reflect worldwide hard drive shortage.
i’m used to having full rights to  the entire drive in windows, so i told the mac os to allow me the same on the  mac harddrive.
i’ve had to completely rebuild it from the ground up twice in the last month!