mac os x mac vs pc welcome to free pc help, a pc help forum here to help you with your  computer problems.
what is your guys take on this?
as (again, i believe, but may be wrong) all the hardware is designed by  apple, it all just 'works' together much better, whereas with a pc, the  mainboard may be from one company, graphics card another... soundcard a  different one still, etc... not necessarily all totally compatible).
after all, no one knows everything and you may have the answer that someone needs.
i'm sure both  platforms will be around forever, and i guess that must be a good thing
the  biggest problem is the soft of course, what can you say when there is even no  decent file manager for mac (i mean like total commander), finder just beats  the £%$ out of me whats good about mac is that when you buy one, you buy  a computer that works, you dont have to worry about anything.
i must admit that as  soon as i get a bit stuck, i run to my laptop!
we are all members helping other members.
--------------------------------------------------------------------
md5 hashes are like fingerprints for programs, and cannot be hidden, changed, or misused in any way or form.
their security systems are still  identifying viruses by their name, size, icon, etc.
please return here where you may be able to help someone else.
i think tootech knows a bit about macs though.
but i'm not a mac user.
after all, no one knows  everything
their security systems are still identifying viruses by their name, size, icon, etc.
it's a good  platform for development and designing as well, yet the pc is no worse i think..
reply with quote pc experience: some experience operating system: windows 7 home premium 64-bit originally posted by plastic nev although not mac myself, i can see one very relevant thing.
7- ultimate pc's are much better, esspecially security wise i have used both windows pc's, and mac's in the past and found  that even a free antivirus installed on a windows pc is better than a mac os,  even with their own security systems.
if you use linux at all, the command line stuff on mac is very similar, due to  being unix based (i believe, although tech guys, correct me if i am wrong!)
the os is a bit different, and will take some getting  used to * perhaps the worst con, is you will have to admit to all your  pc mates that you have joined 'the other side' !!!
three windows at the front and five at the back since i bought the house.
i am a hard core pc fan, so i would tell you everything  thats wrong with a mac but since your not a gamer, thats a different story.
another reason for few mac posts might be because of the percentage of ms windows computers in use compared to macs.
it might be that mac users would be more likely to go to centres of knowledge that are geared to them.
get  help with computer problems.
i currently use both, windows and apple for my work and
once you get used to them, they work really well, less clunky than many pcs *
this is from past incidents that have  happen to me or friends of mine.
hahaha * screens are high  quality on imac i feel, similar to iphones i guess!
pc experience: pc guru operating system: windows 7- home premium i currently use both, windows and apple for my work and i must say i really am swaying towards the mac, its a very simple interface thats easy to grasp the mac touch pad is genuis and works fantastic for me in cs5 and things just work, say plug in my canon photo printer, no disc just plug it in apple auto found all needed drivers and installed them so by the time i was read to print my first page it had all self installed and was work a treat!
reply with quote windows vista - home premium a mac in my eyes is more for specialist users such as graphics  editing etc.
read here pc experience: shredded the teeshirt......
lone wolf makes good points
pretty quick boot time *
reply with  quote windows 7 home premium 64-bit originally posted by plastic nev
(if i am wrong, please correct me) pc cons> can get a virus, can be hacked, can over heat and/or catch fire.
and safari works a hell of a lot better than iereply with quote pc experience: very experienced operating system: windows vista - business we use pc's in our office, and i have been a pc user for well over 2 decades!reply with quote recently an imac was thrust upon us by the boss!
where windows and any security systems mainly built for windows uses md5 signature identification.
most of us here may not have the large knowledge-base that exists on dedicated mac forums.
the os is a bit different, and will take some getting used to * perhaps the worst con, is you will have to admit to all your pc mates that you have joined 'the other side' !!!
less malware or viruses  (or should that be virii?!)
last edited by wellies; 13-12-2010 at 07:27 am.
this means the identifying, and deleting of the viruses is 100% effective and 120% more effective than a mac's security.
in terms of pros vs. cons, this is what i find (although it's just my  opinion!):
not alot of programs work on it and your can't upgrade most  macs if the need comes up.
macs until a few years ago were very hard to get help with and software too, but as people have stated it is getting better.
i think it be cool to have both a pc and a mac pc experience: very experienced operating system: xp home-windows 7 home premium tootech i deleted your post because i deleted the sollynaljesony post for adding spam.
that could be a reason why mac users wouldn't  post here.
elite pc guru operating system: windows vista - home premium a mac in my eyes is more for specialist users such as graphics editing etc.
a mac pc/lappy are very different from windows and  because of that the 2 cant really be compared.
no games, no  this or that, dont need hardly anything fancy.
please return here whereyou may be able to help someone else.
reply with quote pc pros> can run games, supports a hell of a lot of hardware, can be upgrade if needed and software and controls 90% of the market.
i am a simple user,  only emails, read articles on the web, watch dvd's and thats it.
got myself a macbook pro and really  happy with it.
then why not join free pc help.
i might have learned a few things about browsers, the os and other programs out of interest.
macs until a few years  ago were very hard to get help with and software too, but as people have stated  it is getting better.
more windows users would mean  more windows-based posts i suppose.
if you don't start  trying to tweak or change this or that in w.7, it will run your games, word  processors, spread sheets, art and photo programs or any other kind of software  you want to install.
took perhaps 6 to 8 weeks to get used to my mac, course i don't know  it a well as i did windows, but i don't need to.
although  not mac myself, i can see one very relevant thing.
clickhere we are all members helping other members.
most of us here may not have the large knowledge-base that  exists on dedicated mac forums.
reply with quote windows 7 home premium 64-bit originally posted by james10 whats good  about mac is that when you buy one, you buy a computer that works, you dont  have to worry about anything.
why the fuss about windows 7?
in terms of pros vs. cons, this is what i find (although it's just my opinion!):
pc experience: very experienced operating system: windows 7- ultimate i'm totally into pc (10 years now already), i had to use mac for a couple of times - i just cant get used to it, it so...not like pc.
mostly though, i've  looked after the security and then just got on and run the installed programs.
lone wolf makes  good points
reply with quote pc experience: beginner operating system: other - mac based found that even a free antivirus installed on a windows pc is better than a mac os thats a fairly strong comment, would you care to elaborate on your findings and how you measured them, thanks.
the mac os's are extremely reliable and for  that i can see the attraction, but i think that its hard to compare the 2  against one another as there are pro's and con's for both intel q6600 @ 4ghz (watercooled) asus p5k premium black  pearl 4gb ocz reaper 8500 join free pc help -  registerhere donations are welcome - here we are all members helping other members.
i must  say i really am swaying towards the mac, its a very simple interface thats easy  to grasp the mac touch pad is genuis and works fantastic for me in cs5 and  things just work, say plug in my canon photo printer, no disc just plug it in  apple auto found all needed drivers and installed them so by the time i was  read to print my first page it had all self installed and was work a treat!
this means the identifying, and deleting of the  viruses is 100% effective and 120% more effective than a mac's security.
no games, no this or that, dont need hardly anything fancy.
i have  tried and vigorously tested both and the pc is better.
if free pc help has helped you then please consider a donation.
got myself a macbook pro and really happy with it.
i am still a pc fan and i don't think i will  be getting a mac soon, even tho
and you may have the answer that someone needs.
there's good and bad in both imho, and after working on windows pc's problems for a good few years i needed a change pc experience: sounds and music man operating system: windows xp plus windows 7 pro although not mac myself, i can see one very relevant thing.
in order to start  asking questions or contribute on someone else's post you will first need to register.
i have tried and vigorously tested both and the pc is better.
less malware or viruses (or should that be virii?!)
as (again, i believe, but may be wrong) all the hardware is designed by apple, it all just 'works' together much better, whereas with a pc, the mainboard may be from one company, graphics card another... soundcard a different one still, etc... not necessarily all totally compatible).
i  have used it a few times, and quite like it.
if you use linux at all, the command line stuff on mac is very similar, due to being unix based (i believe, although tech guys, correct me if i am wrong!)
operating system: osx no worries randy.
i have used it a few times, and quite like it.
i deleted your post because i deleted the sollynaljesony  post for adding spam.
mac pros> greet at movie making, very easy to use if you only going on the web and checking e-mail and other websites like myspace.
please return here where you may be able to help  someone else.
windows 7- ultimate i'm totally into pc (10 years now already), i had to use mac for  a couple of times - i just cant get used to it, it so...not like pc.
apart from the fact that the operating system  needs additional security care, i think the same can be said of windows 7.
i have herd that macs are easer to use with less problems.
this has been my experience with various ms operating systems and not just windows 7.
enabling the right click for a start!
i am a hard core pc fan, so i would tell you everything thats wrong with a mac but since your not a gamer, thats a different story.
i might have learned a few things  about browsers, the os and other programs out of interest.
three windows at the front and  five at the back since i bought the house.
after all, no one knows everything and you may have the answer that someone  needs.
whats good about mac is that when you buy one, you buy a computer that works, you dont have to worry about anything that's my take on it.
hey mac users, i have been using pc's for 10 years(5 pc's) every pc i have had i have had stupid problems here and there.
help - registerhere donations are welcome - here
md5 hashes are like fingerprints for programs, and cannot be hidden, changed,  or misused in any way or form.
don't worry - it's quick and easy and once you have registered you will have instant access to the entire forum.
but a few things can  help the switch, i find...
i reckon that tells it's own story.
mostly though, i've looked after the security and then just got on and run the installed programs.
pc pros> can run games, supports a hell of a lot of hardware, can be  upgrade if needed and software and controls 90% of the market.
(if i am wrong,  please correct me) pc cons> can get a virus, can be hacked, can over  heat and/or catch fire.
a mac pc/lappy are very different from windows and because of that the 2 cant really be compared.
chrome|30mb cable broadband.
software support is  getting better, its the small windows apps that i do miss now and then, but  actually you soon realise you don't really need them.
it might be  that mac users would be more likely to go to centres of knowledge that are  geared to them.
pc experience: some experience operating system: windows 7 home premium 64-bit originally posted by james10 whats good about mac is that when you buy one, you buy a computer that works, you dont have to worry about anything.
good and bad about both.
need help with your computer problems?
+  reply to thread  results 1 to 14 of 14 thread: mac vs pc posts 6 hey mac users, i have been using pc's for 10 years(5 pc's) every  pc i have had i have had stupid problems here and there.
reply with quote get help with computer problems.
if left alone like macs probably are, windows 7 just works.
pc experience: elite pc guru operating system:
the biggest problem is the soft of course, what can you say when there is even no decent file manager for mac (i mean like total commander), finder just beats the £%$ out of me whats good about mac is that when you buy one, you buy a computer that works, you dont have to worry about anything.
this is from past incidents that have happen to me or friends of mine.
how is that different to a mac?
that could be a reason why mac users wouldn't post here.
don't worry - it's quick and easy and once you have  registered you will have instant access to the entire forum.
i must admit that as soon as i get a bit stuck, i run to my laptop!
and theres almost now virus and haclers don't bother mac users mac cons> can crash randomly sometimes, if ya delete a important system  file, your screwed.
windows 7- ultimate i have used both windows pc's, and mac's in the past and found that even a free antivirus installed on a windows pc is better than a mac os, even with their own security systems.
join free pc helphere donations are welcome.
this has been my experience with various ms  operating systems and not just windows 7.
free pc help is a rapidly growing community that offers free  computer support for all users, all ages, worldwide.
there's good and bad in both  imho, and after working on windows pc's problems for a good few years i needed  a change reply with quote operating system: windows xp plus windows 7 pro although not mac myself, i can see one very relevant thing.
after all, no one knows everything and you may have the  answer that someone needs.
there  aren't many posts in this the mac section, and even less posts with actual  problems to do with mac's yet the rest of the forum is all pc with faults  and problems on every conceivable part of a pc.
there aren't many posts in this the mac section, and even less posts with actual problems to do with mac's yet the rest of the forum is all pc with faults and problems on every conceivable part of a pc.
some specialist programmes may not be available on  macs * repairs may cost more... or at least harder to 'user repair' or  'user upgrade'
he added spam to his signature.
reply with quote windows
but a few things can help the switch, i find...
read here no worries randy.
reply with quote btw - i don't use a windows pc anymore.....at all......ever lol.
another reason for few mac posts might be because of the percentage  of ms windows computers in use compared to macs.
i have herd that macs are easer  to use with less problems.
kinda solid feeling *
why  the fuss about windows 7?
join free pc helphere donations  are welcome.
please return here  whereyou may be able to help someone else.
reply with quote operating system: windows 7- home premium
and safari works a hell of a lot better  than ie reply with quote operating system: windows vista - business we use pc's in our office, and i have been a pc user for well  over 2 decades!
i am still a pc fan and i don't think i will be getting a mac soon, even tho
it seems to me that by going to a mac, you end up with a different breed of computer but not necessarily one that will run programs any better.
i think it be cool to have both a pc and a mac reply with quote operating system: xp home-windows 7 home premium tootech
more windows users would mean more windows-based posts i suppose.
recently an imac was thrust upon us by the boss!
i reckon that tells it's  own story.
reply with quote operating system: other - mac based whats good about mac is that when you buy one, you buy a  computer that works, you dont have to worry about anything that's my take on it.
if free pc help has helped you then  please consider a donation.
free pc help is a rapidly growing community that offers free computer support for all users, all ages, worldwide.
whats the pro's and cons for a simple user like me?reply with quote thanks well.
not alot of programs work on it and your can't upgrade most macs if the need comes up.
it's a bit of culture shock to not have some of the utils windows has - i don't miss them really.
mac pros> greet at movie making, very easy  to use if you only going on the web and checking e-mail and other websites like  myspace.
i really think im  going to give a mac a try here soon, i just want a computer to work every time.
and theres almost now virus and haclers don't bother mac users mac cons> can crash randomly sometimes, if ya delete a important system file, your screwed.
it's a good platform for development and designing as well, yet the pc is no worse i think..
a visit to a mac forum shows that macs too can have their problems.
if you don't start trying to tweak or change this or that in w.7, it will run your games, word processors, spread sheets, art and photo programs or any other kind of software you want to install.
reply with quote pc experience: beginner operating system: other - mac based
it seems to me that by going to a mac, you end  up with a different breed of computer but not necessarily one that will run  programs any better.
reply with  quote operating system:
apart from the fact that the operating system needs additional security care, i think the same can be said of windows 7.
registerherereply with quote
software support is getting better, its the small windows apps that i do miss now and then, but actually you soon realise you don't really need them.
if  left alone like macs probably are, windows 7 just works.
reply with quote took perhaps 6 to 8 weeks to get used to my mac, course i don't know it a well as i did windows, but i don't need to.
there aren't many posts in  this the mac section, and even less posts with actual problems to do with mac's yet the rest of the forum is all pc with faults and problems on every  conceivable part of a pc.
i really think im going to give a mac a try here soon, i just want a computer to work every time.
where windows and any  security systems mainly built for windows uses md5 signature identification.
reply  with quote operating system: other - mac based found that even a free antivirus installed on a windows pc is  better than a mac os thats a fairly strong comment, would you care to elaborate  on your findings and how you measured them, thanks.
i'm sure both platforms will be around forever, and i guess that must be a good thing pc experience:
btw - i don't use a windows pc  anymore.....at all......ever lol.
and  aperture photo editing suite is so brilliant i would probably would go as far  as saying its better than photoshop!
hahaha * screens are high quality on imac i feel, similar to iphones i guess!
computer: quad-core cpu| 4gb ram|windows 7 64-bit|sandboxie| norton internet security|security task manager|firefox|
then why not join free  pc help.
i think tootech knows a bit about macs  though.
whats the pro's and cons for a simple user like me?
some specialist programmes may not be available on macs * repairs may cost more... or at least harder to 'user repair' or 'user upgrade'
and aperture photo editing suite is so brilliant i would probably would go as far as saying its better than photoshop!
in order to start asking questions or contribute on someone else's post you will first need to register.
a visit to a mac forum shows that macs too  can have their problems.
it's a bit of culture shock to not have some of the utils  windows has - i don't miss them really.
clickhere we are all members  helping other members.
i am a simple user, only emails, read articles on the web, watch dvd's and thats it.
the mac os's are extremely reliable and for that i can see the attraction, but i think that its hard to compare the 2 against one another as there are pro's and con's for both intel q6600 @ 4ghz (watercooled)reply with quote asus p5k premium black pearl 4gb ocz reaper 8500 260gtx join free pc