i copied all my files over
put your life on the line!
they're #1 in tech support, three years running!
thus, they programmed the operating system to take care of itself, running a program every night in the wee hours of the morning.
these are my mostpersonal, absolutely necessary documents, mind you -- and not a single problem.
i suppose you gotta try it to get the full joy, but alt-tab's got nothin' on apple, let me say.
i am finding the mac very fun and easy to use, a few quirks aside from being new to it.
i must ask forgiveness of the great one: back to top kidologist administrator karl bastian joined: 20 october 2003 location: united states posts: 5415 posted: 10 january 2004 at 8:40pm | ip logged over 175 views to this thread, and only 9 votes!, (2 of which are mine -
be bold - i was just telling someone the other day, there are few people who are objective on this question!
i got deal on appleworks 6 and it is opening my word docs fine.
edit: a response to  maintenance question... i was really surprised at how little maintenance my mac requires.
shop our easter resources guide!
http://www.apple.com/switch/howto/move2mac/
(well, i can't say that: winxp does seem to clutter  the stick with temporary file folders/images and ".ds_" copies of  whatever i open -- it's just bizarre, but then it's windows.)
now throw in linux and unix into the mess like i have at work and now no one wants to share or talk to each other.
you might have me on the parts: i'll admit that, for the average consumer, it might be difficult to find parts.
just like pastor karl's kidology ministry.
oh, now i'm in trouble!
appeared on the desk top.
oh, and i have yet to "redo" my mac.
i also recently learned that a friend that has a mac can not use the same messaging software.
(i was messing with them like i need to mess  with windows system files, but realized it didn't need messing with.)
do you have to defrag?
so hold on to your dough for now.
call it sinful, but in that case it's the most pleasurable sin of all.
thus you would have the best of both worlds.
usually i have the intensive final cut pro and/or photoshop -- and a few other programs running as well.
we are creative but have become stuck in a certain mode of thinking and doing things.
since panther, though, i don't even need to do  this step anymore; even though i do out of habit.
i haven't even had that kind of luck getting pcs running on networks -- and i'd like to think i've had lots of experience, as i'm one of the few all-around tech support dudes at school.
the thing to understand is os x is built upon a  unix-core; it's built to naturally take care of itself.
and, mind you, i'm still forced  to use pcs frequently at school and on a few other occassions.
we know you are reading this, you know who you are -be brave!
can't sleep so i'm up a bit late or early.
it takes on average  two minutes to run its course on my computer, and i'm more than welcome to surf  the net, listen to itunes, and anything else i might want while it does that.
i was surprised; no annoying background music, not even 30 seconds of  waiting, and "bob" knew exactly what the problem was as i described  it (rather poorly at that) and knew exactly how to fix it.
- our staff - kidmin pros - kidology champions - advertising - terms & refund policy - privacy policy - link to us - statement of faith - testimonials - searching kidology - become a member - customer support - contact us have you seen the hunger games?
i was surprised; no annoying background music, not even 30 seconds of waiting, and "bob" knew exactly what the problem was as i described it (rather poorly at that) and knew exactly how to fix it.
(though i must admit that since 2000 our web designers have created kidology.org on macs!)
already got ilife and panther coming!
i have yet to reformat any of my harddrives, or do a system-wide purge just to get it running smoothly again, in the 10 months i've had it.
and they're paving the way for1 to 1 learning -- that is, one computer to one kid.
one call  to tech support and less than an hour later, the problem was fixed and good as  new.
pc get cluttered and slow very quickly, and i have a state-of-the-art laptop, and it takes three minutes to boot up (so i hibernate 95% of the time, which works great in xp now)
back to top kevinm6183 premium member joined: 28 september 2005 location: united states posts: 46 posted: 10 january 2004 at 3:23pm | ip logged dude, i love you!
all  in all, 4 or 5 minutes of maintenance every week or so and you're set.
3) biased opinions welcome!
what's more, it all just works.
which is better, the mac or the pc!?
there's also one more thing that i do every other week or so, but i  think the panther upgrade rendered it superfluous, so technically i don't even  need to.
back to top page 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 of 13 printable version forum jump -- select forum -- kidology forum - let's talk children's ministry - leadership forum with greg baird - family ministry - discipletown -
the virtual-pc sounds interesting!
back to top kidologist administrator karl bastian joined: 20 october 2003 location: united states posts: 5415 posted: 10 january 2004 at 5:45pm | ip logged kevinm6183 wrote: .....thus i can go to my office .... and play quake ha-ha.
my pc friends seem to be reformatting  every other week, but no problems here.
i would think it would be somewhat easy.
they're providing and empowering teachers withnew and innovative ways for teaching (using the ilife suite, for one).
i will have my boss buy it (if she will) and if it works i'll let you know,
i see it as god's provision - as we adjust the way we do things to be more effective in the lives of our children.
my pc friends seem to be reformatting every other week, but no problems here.
it just takes a re-orientation of your computing mindset.
question for mac-lovers - honestly - what is the maintenanc of a mac?
location: united states posts: 46 posted: 10 january 2004 at 8:19pm | ip logged karl now that i've give a quick look at virtual pc i could be moved to towards the darkside and be 50% mac and 50% pc.
i then told my boss that if i must play with fruit i would need more time off or more money.
the only thing you can't do with it, i believe, is play certain windows games through it.
it's ok we are all friends.
i must say, that i have found the mac to very easy, natural, and integrated, but i have to admit, it does seem a bit slow, and all the pastels is kinda annoying, gimmie some real colors, like red, blue, yellow, not all this light pinkie stuff.
not sure, but i've never gotten a tech support rep that knew more than me, and its not like i'm a super techie guy, i'm really not.
we haven't been bored all day, ave we?
location: united states posts: 46 posted: 10 january 2004 at 2:30pm | ip logged what i don't get is why someone has not made it so you can easily trade files from mac to pc and pc to mac.
i use a program called macjanitor, which i just run -- hit a button  for it to perform its duties, then leave it running in the background.
back to top mackarl group member joined: 05 january 2004 posts: 5 posted: 10 january 2004 at 11:36am | ip logged i have to agree with jedi some here, i just plugged in the mac to my home network and boom i was online, no settings to do or anything, and it is a secure network too.
os x is based on unix, as i said, and unix was designed to run 24/7, mainly as processing computers.
what is fun is attempting to get parts for mac or if you need a tech type person finding one that is willing to work on mac.
it takes on average two minutes to run its course on my computer, and i'm more than welcome to surf the net, listen to itunes, and anything else i might want while it does that.
the only thing you  should have to do is every week or so check the permissions on your boot  harddrive.
(that's not to  mention people still ask me to play tech support for pcs. )
back to top jedikindergartner administrator moderator of the coffee joined: 16 october 2003 location: united states posts: 327 posted: 10 january 2004 at 12:11am | ip logged and while i'm at it, i should absolutely plug apple's superbeducation program.
people say "macs are good for graphics/publishing" but everything else peecee's are fine.
(it also takes a fair minute or two.)
__________________ because jesus loves children, kevin mccullough back to top mackarl group member joined: 05 january 2004 posts: 5 posted: 10 january 2004 at 10:56am | ip logged uh,
i just spent 2 days searching for a g3 power supply.
but hey, it's a lively discussion!
back to top kevinm6183 premium member joined: 28 september 2005
so all teasing aside, its not a bribe, it is a awesome gift we are very thankful for regardless of the fun debate i opened with this 'can of worms."
not so fast, the momment mac goes over 50% (that is if it ever does) i will lose many friends, so i must moveslowly here!
they actually care about education, simply put.
and while i am still much faster with pc (i use more keyboard short-cuts than most people have ever heard of, rarely even need a mouse or touchpad)
then there's the small, ministry-based applications that get developed, but only for pc.
it runs  like it did on day 1, when i took it out of the box; even better, actually.
they suit our lifestyle, they'reconducive to creativity -- which is so much more than i could ever have said about my old pc.
and, mind you, i'm still forced to use pcs frequently at school and on a few other occassions.
it's just soooooo nice, though, i can't tell you how wonderful it is to be in love with your computer.
i'm moving, slowly, but steadily.
there's also one more thing that i do every other week or so, but i think the panther upgrade rendered it superfluous, so technically i don't even need to.
yeah, call me a crazy loon for being this fanatic about a simple computer -- but at least i'm a crazy loon who experiences absolute joy every single day in the form of his computer.
yes the mac has nice toys, but you can get the same toys and do the same things with a pc.
__________________ because jesus loves children, kevin mccullough back to top mackarl group member joined: 05 january 2004 posts: 5 posted: 12 january 2004 at 1:34am | ip logged ok, anyone ever heard of: thinkfree software?
back to top kidologist administrator karl bastian joined: 20 october 2003 location: united states posts: 5415 posted: 10 january 2004 at 6:09pm | ip logged jedikindergartner wrote: ah, but karl, i do think your ticker should be a little more over to the apple side of things.
i am disappointed to hear that.
that's the mac, creative/innovative.
but i do like the ease of how everything works.
location: united states posts: 46 posted: 10 january 2004 at 8:46pm | ip logged shame, shame stand up and be counted for, right (pc) or wrong(mac)
it seems, anyway, jedi or anyone else, ever used it?
and i  don't exactly understand what you mean by it being difficult to exchange files.
and my computer handles everything; not a blue screen of death in sight.)
then there's apple's excellent tech support.
say, 57.4%/42.6% in mac's favor?
mackarl: i knew it was a joke, just clarifying so the macfans would still like you.
mac tech support is good and still in the usa so i don't have to fight the language issues.
(actually, i think all of them were windows-only networks too.)
i know you were teasing, and your quote was followed by a wink, but just for the record, since the donor will most certainly read this in time, i wasn't being 'bought' - someone generously donated a g4 to kidology.
but everything else -- you name the file -- i haven't had problems with it.
back to top evandoyle kidology staff joined: 19 october 2003 location: united states posts: 39
(actually, i think all of them were  windows-only networks too.)
i started out on pc with one of the first laptops, a toshiba1000 - had to load the operating system every time i booted up!
you know drink coffee and play quake ha-ha.
i can sooo easily create a quick movie whenever i need withimovie, and then burn it onto dvd withidvd -- and all in such brilliant style and speed.
but i can always have a pc desktop for that stuff - i don't know - hard to change - i am a short-cuts whiz and am really fast on a pc, but, ok, i'll move to 79.7% pc and 20.3% mac.
you just made my life 100% easier, thus i can go to my office and do nerd things.
personally, i'm rather grateful to bill gates, without his vision, there may be no kidology.org and the ability to network and equip and encourage children's workers through this site!
i was a loyal mac user until bill gates stole (yes, stole)
they know how frustrating technology can be for teachers, but realize how today's kids are growing up asdigital kids.
http://www.thinkfree.com/ i downloaded the demo, seems pretty cool, and opens my word docs better than appleworks, and is only $49 compaired to $200+ for word x from billgatesinc.
the only thing you should have to do is every week or so check the permissions on your boot harddrive.
i went from a laser 128 (a generic of apple iic) and then when powerbook 180 came out, and everyone was jealous because my laptop had16 shades of grey!!!
so this causes some problems.
ok, what am i missing here?
os x is based on unix, as i said, and unix was designed to run 24/7,  mainly as processing computers.
yes, i voted twice, once with both personalities in this thread)
all in all, 4 or 5 minutes of maintenance every week or so and you're set.
of course color came soon after.
similar to testing with netscape (lets not get that argument going!)
it's made me disappointed that ms stole so much of this and we give them our hard earned dollars despite this!
why else would anybodyedit award-winning films on apple, carry the entire human genome on his ipod, shape america's visual culture as a designer's designer, compose hollywood's best film scores, or even, for that matter, take tens of thousands of picture of african life and culture -- on anything but a mac?
ministries - play soup - realfun - river's edge - rob biagi - roger fields/kidz blitz - scripture candy - speed stacks - spot the difference - steve winger-count down to christmas/
neither 2 [0.74%] you can not vote in this poll author message > kidologist administrator karl bastian joined: 20 october 2003 location: united states posts: 5415 posted: 09 january 2004 at 12:11am | ip logged ok - i'm gonna do it - i am going to open the can of worms!
apologetics for kids discipletown unit 16 "how to know the truth" free curriculum? check out kidology open source home • zones • forums • store • garage sale • surveys • training • coaching •
i'm a power-user, but not a techno-whiz.
then i had to open the thing and install it.
hehee, but at least computers don't shove crayons up their (or worse, your) nose.
is that a subtle way of saying that to use a mac is sin?
- kidolosphere - kidologist.com - toyboxtales.com - orderoftheancient.com - kidologytogo.org - yosemitesummit.org - kidmintalk.com - newsletters - about us - what is kidology?
i do have to admit i'm a little bit disappointed that developers simply don't develop for mac too often.
i think the real tech quizes don't work for tech support?
back to top jedikindergartner administrator moderator of the coffee joined: 16 october 2003 location: united states posts: 327 posted: 10 january 2004 at 1:12pm | ip logged
ooooh, aren't you amazed!
weber - brothers young productions / fantastic world - cadre - children & family ministry - children's church stuff - creative ministry group/slime time - david and teesha ministries - discipleland - fidelity bible kits - first steps in worship - forword international / kickrickulum - go fish guys - god's kids worship - god rocks - group publishing - harvest publishing - heritage builders - henry zonio - high voltage kids ministry - hot wire foam factory - jeff 'roady' grable - just me music - karyn henley - kids kount publishing - kids power company - kidz on earth/veggietales - kidzmatter - kim bobb - manna recording - mark arts - mark condon - marty martin - minister2kids - mountain time ministries - national center for biblical parenting - one2believe/messengers of faith - peaceable kingdom
what appears to be happening is you were just bought by the apple people.
back to top jedikindergartner administrator moderator of the coffee joined: 16 october 2003 location: united states posts: 327 posted: 10 january 2004 at 11:14am | ip logged that's funny, kevin -- i've not had asingle of your problems.
location: united states posts: 46 posted: 09 january 2004 at 6:39pm | ip logged well after working in the computer field for a few years dealing with mac (apple) and pc my conclusion is a follows: eat fruit, work on pc back to top kidologist administrator karl bastian joined: 20 october 2003 location: united states posts: 5415 posted: 09 january 2004 at 8:41pm | ip logged question: is the apple logo, the bite out of the apple, a symbol of the origin of sin??
so i could play with them.
you should be able to set up a dual boot system.
back to top jedikindergartner administrator moderator of the coffee joined: 16 october 2003 location: united states posts: 327 posted: 10 january 2004 at 6:00pm | ip logged hehe, quake is a pretty popular game that's been around a few years; its renowned for providing tech support types with plenty of entertainment in desparaging moments of boredom, when there's no support-ish stuff to do.
apple deserves our patronage for being the creative innovator.
*shrugs* i've also successfully plugged my mac into many networks, without a hitch whatsoever.
i still have a hard time imagining leaving pc due to all the programs i have that mac doesn't -
they're #1 in tech  support, three years running!
(like hitting a letter and having the highlight jump to files/folders starting with that letter, and the control-arrows for skipping by word, and home and end being beginning and end of line, and control-home/end being beginning end of sentence, and a few other little things like that) back to top mackarl group member joined: 05 january 2004 posts: 5 posted: 10 january 2004 at 11:43am | ip logged kevinm6183 wrote: what appears to be happening is you were just bought by the apple people.
the kids church cookbook corner - discovering god's path curriculum - cm blogwatch - cm conferences & local networks - kidmin resources & products - kidmin talk with the kidologist - order of the ancient this page was generated in 0.5000 seconds.
the problem isn't the macs, it is usually the html.
some people must be afraid even to give an anonymous vote!
add to this mac's recent operating system upgrade, panther -- it's got so many useful productivity tools it's not funny.
until the day when mac and pc are interchangable we will just have to have two computers to do many jobs correctly.
i washed my hands several times after playing with the fruit.
in  fact, i often keep a lot of my personal documents on my usb memory stick and i  can easily unplug it from my mac, plug it into any pc (well, any pc with winxp,  since nothing else has the drivers built in -- not so with macs, they'll just  go with it), and all of my files are there and i can open them all seamlessly.
though i did just dig in and get panther.
location: united states posts: 327 posted:  10 january 2004 at 11:14am | ip logged that's funny, kevin --  i've not had asingle of your problems.
the kids have gone home - kidologist's forum - order of the ancient - store - what's new - kidology stuff - discipletown - leadership labs - kids church cookbook - kidology curriculum - noduh videos - toybox tales - order of the ancient - the chronicles of narnia curriculum - 'this one's on me' donations - online training - leadership labs - kids church cookbook - personal coaching - toybox tales - downloads - curriculum - kids church curriculum - sunday school curriculum - tweens - discipleship - event / outreach - preschool curriculum - vbs - advancing native missions - answers in genesis - frontier creations/puppetsinc - go fish guys - god rocks!
the ideas you have offered have so broadened our way of thinking and variety of avenues of teaching.
pc people know they have a good product, thus don't have to buy our users.
i am always amazed at what can be done on a mac and for the purposes of graphic editing and movie making, i'm very interested in a mac.
you might have me on the parts: i'll  admit that, for the average consumer, it might be difficult to find parts.
and i am trying it out 'on the side'
i think "jedi" has talked me into panther.
well, thereis sort of a way to have a dual boot system.
you can convert some files from mac to pc but not all and sometimes the files don't even look the same when you convert them.
(well, i can't say that: winxp does seem to clutter the stick with temporary file folders/images and ".ds_" copies of whatever i open -- it's just bizarre, but then it's windows.)
so no, i wouldn't even try to run a ministry without a pc... as much as i'd like to say i could live my whole life with just apple, i'd be extremely foolhardy to try.
for those making "the switch", this software is available.
location: united states posts: 46 posted: 11 january 2004 at 3:07am | ip logged what awesome to me is that i have never face to face meet any of you, but as christians i feel a bond to each of you.
view more surveys kidology has been a breath of fresh air to me.
i just got my appleworks today and will install as soon as i get home.
i have to re-do my pc every 3-6 months due to it getting slow and cumbersome, and i have tech problems weekly, probably 3-4 hours a week is wasted on tech support, and pc tech support is as lame as any - people reading manuals to me on the phone, i know more usually than the tech support rep i get!
one hard drive formated mac and the other drive formated pc.
it does have computer problems occassionally and requires maintenance, but it's all so very simple and easy.
see if it'll run all those windows-only ministry apps that i need to survive.
back to top jedikindergartner administrator moderator of the coffee joined: 16 october 2003 location: united states posts: 327 posted: 10 january 2004 at 10:08pm | ip logged we're all three nuts, you do realize that, don't you?
in fact, i often keep a lot of my personal documents on my usb memory stick and i can easily unplug it from my mac, plug it into any pc (well, any pc with winxp, since nothing else has the drivers built in -- not so with macs, they'll just go with it), and all of my files are there and i can open them all seamlessly.
it does  have computer problems occassionally and requires maintenance, but it's all so  very simple and easy.
you wanna add background music to a movie you're working on?
the only things i'm not liking about mac is the lack of keyboard shortcuts i am very used to, but i'm sure they are there, just have to relearn them.
one call to tech support and less than an hour later, the problem was fixed and good as new.
*shrugs* i've also successfully plugged my mac into many  networks, without a hitch whatsoever.
ah, but karl, i do think your ticker should be a little more over to the apple side of things.
- gospel light - group - nat'l center for biblical parenting - regular baptist press (rbp) - river's edge - standard publishing - truthquest - garage sale - leadership resources - magazines - volunteer aides - bulletin inserts - teacher tools - preschool resources - elementary resources - tweens - powerpoint games - curriculum enhancements - books - church building - self help - family life - preschool - elementary - tweens - bibles - devotionals - magazines - music - video - graphics - special fx - magic - puppetry - speed stacks - ministry games & toys - artistic tools - room decorating - foam sculpting - spanish - view by vendor - advancing native missions - alan root - amaze healing wings - animated kids bible - awesome video stuff - axtell expressions - bardin & marsee publishing - brent
i have yet to reformat any  of my harddrives, or do a system-wide purge just to get it running smoothly  again, in the 10 months i've had it.
poll choice votes poll statistics pc 135 [49.63%] mac 81
have a fruitful sunday ha-ha could not resist.
i have my life (and several other's) chronicled in pictures iniphoto -- a couple thousand pictures, and can instantly create slideshows or coffee books or generate an online photo album or whatever with any of them.
http://www.apple.com/switch/howto/ back to top kevinm6183 premium member joined: 28 september 2005
it's little wonder they keeping winning awards for excellence in technology & learning.
btw, i like the orginal sin thing, think i will use it monday.
back to top mellicktoo premium member joined: 20 september 2004 posts: 30 posted: 12 january 2004 at 12:04pm | ip logged i havent used a mac since high school so naturally i have to vote for pc.
they're revolutionizingschool administration solutions.
it's like my desktop is alive.
it just takes a  re-orientation of your computing mindset.
(it also  takes a fair minute or two.)
[29.78%] both 54 [19.85%]
back to top kidologist administrator karl bastian joined: 20 october 2003 location: united states posts: 5415 posted: 10 january 2004 at 12:36am | ip logged
well, it finally happened, someone gave me a mac g4 with os x
__________________ because jesus loves children, kevin mccullough back to top jedikindergartner administrator moderator of the coffee joined: 16 october 2003 location: united states posts: 327 posted: 10 january 2004 at 2:46pm | ip logged kevinm6183 wrote: now throw in linux and unix into the mess like i have at work and now no one wants to share or talk to each other.
come to think of it, i should try it out some time;
i  haven't even had that kind of luck getting pcs running on networks -- and i'd  like to think i've had lots of experience, as i'm one of the few all-around  tech support dudes at school.
back to top cindykvfc11885 premium member joined: 06 november 2005
then i installedilumina gold, (website currently down) and am enjoying that.
location: united states posts: 46 posted: 10 january 2004 at 9:17am | ip logged
:) back to top kevinm6183 premium member joined: 28 september 2005
(that's not to mention people still ask me to play tech support for pcs. )
remember me kidmin talk #025 - april 3, 2012 - home - zones - what's new - kidologist's zone - kidology reports - karl's novel - administration - articles - audio adventures - baptism - bible sword drills - bulletin inserts - christmas - crafts - creative ideas - devotionals - discovering god's path curriculum - easter - evangelism - family devos - father's day - forum q&a series - free premium member downloads - games - gospel magic - halloween - holiday ideas - humor - kid's church lessons - lesson plans - missions - mother's day - movie reviews - music - object lessons - openings - patriotic - powerpoint - prayer - preteen - puppetry - recruiting - reviews - short talks - stories - thanksgiving - valentine's day - videos - worship videos - spotlight ministry resources - discussion forums - let's talk children's ministry - leadership forum - family ministry - discipletown - kids church cookbook - open source curriculum - discovering god's path - conferences & local networks - cm blogwatch - kidmin resources & products -
sorry if i caused any difficulties, just having fun.
(i know, i'm getting old!)
and they're not square box windows: they're just there, with little regard to the boxed confines of windows.
from the demo it looks toooo cool!
they are available -- there's dozens of very nice online mac sites that  have comprehensive inventories of all the parts you could need.
hit one single button and every single window you have open -- which in my case is typically millions -- is automatically shrunken and scaled so that everything appears on the monitor.
"the emperor is not as forgiving as i am" - famous words of darth vader, to which i usually answer,"oh, yeah, and you are mr. forgiveness!"
they are available -- there's dozens of very nice online mac sites that have comprehensive inventories of all the parts you could need.
back to top kidologist administrator karl bastian joined: 20 october 2003 location: united states posts: 5415 posted: 10 january 2004 at 9:23pm | ip logged yes!
i usually end up explaining it to them, and hang up more frustrated than before i placed the call.
all rights reserved design by changeffect development bybolderimage
how often do you have to re-do your system?
as ctlady said, everycreative professional uses macs simply because macsare creative and professional -- hehe, and innovative.
i do like the mac case, they open easy and everything is easy to get to.
posted: 10 january 2004 at 8:15pm | ip logged
plug the network cable in, mac really does take  care of the rest -- and in a matter of 30 seconds, you're on the network.
i look forward to the funny ha-ha and the crys for help, etc.
i've had to make one single call to tech support before; a week or so after i got my g4, i decided i was smart enough to play with the system files and inadvertently messed something up.
but i do know people who swear by it (tsk, shame on them!), so i figure it can't hurt owning it.
these are my mostpersonal, absolutely necessary documents, mind you --  and not a single problem.
and, if i just skim the phone book i can easily find half a dozen tech support peoples and businesses that work on apples.
i have three days of music plugged intoitunes and wouldn't dream of using any other media player.
you can run pc programs, access pc networks, share pc files -- the works.
they're honoring teachers, not only by providing them with technology that they canuse during class, but by recognizing and respecting successful teaching.
but what is your opinion?
have fun with your fruit.
i had no software installed on it, and all you can do just with a 'plain' 'ol mac is amazing.
now about 99.9% of the world uses the pc (yes sometimes a million flys can be right)
back to top ctlady premium member joined: 11 november 2003
my desktop is covered in lovely stickie notes andwidgets -- it's the most wonderful thing in the world.
the word tends to be made up of bill gates haters and bill gates fans.
"quake ha-ha" - or "quake" what is that?
to be fully honest if someone gave me a g4 i would use it for movie and graphic type applications.
posts: 15 posted: 09 january 2004 at 6:25pm | ip logged mac is always on the forefront of innovation.
and that's not even my typical workload: that's just half a dozen quicktimes, my dvd player, and itunes playing at the same time, along with a dozen or so pictures that i don't bother to close (why?), msn messenger, mail, safari -- my internet browser, palm desktop, iphoto, half a dozen widgets, and my screenplay.
(you simply open disk utility in the application/utilities folder,  select your harddrive, and hit repair disk permissions.)
there's a few games i miss playing anymore, and i'm always frustrated when i stick in a dvd and can't play the dvd-rom special features.
not a problem -- hit a single button in imovie and it shows your whole itunes library, separated into your playlists and everything else.
it's a simple matter of moving your mouse over which window you want, then.
theonly problem i've had to date with file inter-operability has been when a friend tried sending an .avi of something he ripped off tv; it was encoded in some very rare, funky codec.
oh well live and learn!
and, if i just skim the phone book i  can easily find half a dozen tech support peoples and businesses that work on  apples.
and none of this is even to say how necessary, how integral macs have become for all the graphics, publishing, and video work i do.
my mac friends seem to love me either way, but my pc friends are not all so forgiving.
my personal interest aside, we are happy to have a mac so that we can make sure that our mac members and friends have a good experience on kidology.org occasionally, we have had pages that didn't view (or view well) on macs and i'm glad we now can test things on a mac rather than wait for a mac user to complain.
microsoft has put out virtualpc for mac -- essentially allowing you to emulate a pc/windows xp on your mac.
location: united states posts: 3 posted: 09 january 2004 at 2:03pm | ip logged i'm going to have to claim ignorance on the mac - very rarely have used one - i've been a pc person since the beginning.
i think pk's ministry would be unleashed and would know no bounds, glory to god!
ok, i've just moved from 83% pc and 17% mac to 81.6 pc to 18.4% mac - and that's a big move!
i was generously donated a g4 powermac by a friend trying to 'convert' me and i must say i have been amazed so far.
i use a program called macjanitor, which i just run -- hit a button for it to perform its duties, then leave it running in the background.
a lot of stuff you can do on the web is built intot he mac, and i haven't even looked at iphoto or imovie, because i don't have any photos or movies yet.
keep the argument, er, conversation going!
it runs like it did on day 1, when i took it out of the box; even better, actually.
then, almost a year ago, i bought a powermac g4, got final cut pro installed on the sucker, and haven't looked back since.
and i don't exactly understand what you mean by it being difficult to exchange files.
i would have to say that hearing the people on this web site and the interaction has been one of the most impressive events i've been apart.
now, since most of us don't have our computers running in the wee  hours of the morning, we usually have to tell it to do that maintenance  ourself.
the thing to understand is os x is built upon a unix-core; it's built to naturally take care of itself.
i've had to make one single call to tech support before; a week or so after i  got my g4, i decided i was smart enough to play with the system files and  inadvertently messed something up.
i should get word x but don't wanna spend too much just yet!
since panther, though, i don't even need to do this step anymore; even though i do out of habit.
the hunger games titled wrong?
hey, he did say biased opinions are welcome, and boy -- do we got 'em.
tread carefully i must, oh jedi!
somewhat like a bad day with pre-schoolers.
i'm a power user, to be sure -- my life is on my computer.
yeah, i now think different.
macs are expensive, that is another down-side, yet when you look at all the included software that comes included that costs extra on pc, it really balances it out.
no, won't yes, once no, but will yes, more than once what is hunger games?
i lay it out there: 1) which do you use (the poll) 2) and which do think is better (not necessarily the same!)
podcast • jobs • newsletters • submit • join • about • contact • rss © 2012 kidology •
i can't vouch for it personally, as i find it rather expensive and can't spare the dough.
also, it says that it is word or mac compatible, and you share files via the internet, much like .mac
i am very open to the making the 'switch' - but would say i am still 83% pc and 17% mac at this point - which is a big move toward mac!
plug the network cable in, mac really does take care of the rest -- and in a matter of 30 seconds, you're on the network.
now, since most of us don't have our computers running in the wee hours of the morning, we usually have to tell it to do that maintenance ourself.
i agree with kevin, that you can do anything on a pc, even more, and translation is limited between the two, but i must admit this, i've no problems with the mac setting it up (that weren't a part of my mac-ignorance) and it was set up literally in a few minutes, whereas when i have to re-do my pc, which is about every 6 months, it takes a 12 hour day to get it back to where everything is installed and set up.
i even could program in basic on those pokey dos-based computers back when i was 6-years-old.
well, macs are good at graphics/publishing because creativity is needed.
(you simply open disk utility in the application/utilities folder, select your harddrive, and hit repair disk permissions.)
and yes it is a very awesome gift and will expand your ministry.
easter - tadpole tails - take out talkers - taylormation - timbuktoons - countdowns - downloadable lessons - motions - video shorts - truthquest - upward bound/uncle charlie - wesleyan publishing house - worship for kids - worship photos - yancy - view by holiday - new years - valentines day - st. patricks day - easter - mother's day - memorial/labor day - father's day - july 4th - halloween - thanksgiving - christmas - everything else - donations - amazon shop - refund and return policy - garage sale - garage sale - about the kidology garage sale - garage sale terms & conditions - easter resources guide - vbs resources guide - surveys - online training - personal coaching - podcast - conferences - yosemite summit - unbridled - job center - about the job center - browse job openings - post new job opening - search resumes - post new resume - kidminjobs - resource directory - submit new listing - about the directory - child safety - background checks - check-in systems
location: united states posts: 46 posted: 10 january 2004 at 12:55pm | ip logged
- michael olivier, south africa what others are saying discussion forums active topics | search | help let's talk children's ministry kidology network forum : let's talk children's ministry topic: pc vs. mac poll question: which do you use?
(?) also, i plugged in my external usb backup drive - boom an icon for it
(those following my pc/mac ticker) :)
edit: a response to maintenance question... i was really surprised at how little maintenance my mac requires.
this program moves me to 75.1% pc / 24.9% mac!
whether it be apple or pc!
thoughts on the hunger games volunteer recruitment is best through re...
mike (kelly's husband) back to top kevinm6183 premium member joined: 28 september 2005
word docs open fine.
everything good about mac with windows 95, and i had to agree at that time, that win95 brought together the best of both and went back to being a pc guy, though always with an eye on apple, but i had to go with what most people used at work, and with this kidology ministry i need the software only available on pc at the beginning.
earlier today i was at 82.3% pc and 18.7% mac.
theonly problem i've had to date with file inter-operability has been  when a friend tried sending an .avi of something he ripped off tv; it was  encoded in some very rare, funky codec.
it wouldn't even work on two other pcs.
(i was messing with them like i need to mess with windows system files, but realized it didn't need messing with.)
back to top jedikindergartner administrator moderator of the coffee joined: 16 october 2003 location: united states posts: 327 posted: 09 january 2004 at 11:33pm | ip logged heh, does ye really have to ask what i use?
we also should be able to set up and run either mac or pc applications.
the funny thing is that it is difficult to excange files from mac to pc.
thus, they programmed the operating system to  take care of itself, running a program every night in the wee hours of the  morning.
your life is no longer a mess, spread about across multiple harddrives and random folders.