hi your on can radio" "hey you guys i'm dan" hi dan thanks for calling in.
granted mac does have some good gadgets and computers but pc
chase and nathan my name is debbie.
well nathan their both great computers but i believe it's all about personal opinion."
i've been wondering which one you think is  better?" "
" click here to post comments.
all the bundles up into one whole package just  blows pc out of the water."
join in and write your own page!
all the bundles up into one whole package just blows pc out of the water."
debbie which do you prefer mac or pc?"
" so lately i've been hearing a lot of talk  about the battle between pc and mac.
"and i'm chase and  this is can radio signing off.
"personally i'm more of a mac type of person" "why is that?"
guess that feud lives on.
""hi chase and nathan my  name is debbie.
"and i'm chase and this is can radio signing off.
"and i'm chase, and your  listening to can radio!"
it's all about personal opinion."
i love your show!""well thanks.
so lets get back to the topic of the day.
and i work on a pc and have a pc for the main computer and to me pc is  the best computer out there.
don't get me wrong pc is a good computer but mac just has that  extra oomph to put it over the top.
"well to start off i own a mac and i feel like mac is the  better computer.
"and why is that" "well i am in the computer  business
simply click  here to return tofree creative writing prompts #1.
" to be honest i like pc over mac."
i'm talking about the devices such as the itouch, the ipad, the computers.
i'm talking about the devices such as the  itouch, the ipad, the computers.
so the question is pc or mac.
"well thank you debbie for that wonderful insight on your thought on the mac" "
so lets get back to  the topic of the day.
granted mac does have some good gadgets and  computers but pc
don't get me wrong pc is a good computer but mac just has that extra oomph to put it over the top.
simply click here to return tofree creative writing prompts #1.
(c)  copyright 2008-11 build-creative-writing-ideas.com purchase some of author bryan cohen's books at  the following sites!
"well thanks for your thought on the pc have a good  day."
hi your on can  radio" "hey you guys i'm dan" hi dan thanks for calling in.
by nathan king (ocala, fl) "good morning ocala
well there you have it.
"well thank you debbie for that wonderful  insight on your thought on the mac" "
thanks for listening to can radio that's all the time we have.
so  the question is pc or mac.
1,000 creative writing prompts: amazon,  smashwords, bcwi, barnes & noble, kobo, sony ted saves the world:  amazon, smashwords, barnes & noble sharpening the pencil: amazon,  smashwords, bcwi, barnes & noble 500 writing prompts for kids:  amazon, smashwords, bcwi, barnes & noble writer on the side: amazon ,smashwords, bcwi, barnes & noble chekhov kegstand: amazon,  smashwords, barnes & noble covenant coffee (ep. 1):
not just because i own one but over half of americans do as well.
not just because i own one  but over half of americans do as well.
" well i say we go to one of our  callers and get their thoughts' on these two corporations." "hi caller number one your on can radio.
one for pc one for mac.
i've been wondering which one you think is better?" "
"well to start off i own a mac and i feel like mac is the better computer.
i feel as if it the best computer on the market."
"well thanks for your thought on the pc have a good day."
"personally i'm more of a mac type of person" "why is  that?"
thanks for listening to can  radio that's all the time we have.
well nathan their both great computers but i believe
" so lately i've been hearing a lot of talk about the battle between pc and mac.
i think beats them by a land slide.
i feel as if it the best computer on the  market."
" well i say we go to one of our callers and get their thoughts' on these two corporations." "hi caller number one your on can radio.
"and why is that" "well i am in the computer business and i work on a pc and have a pc for the main computer and to me pc is the best computer out there.
"and i'm chase, and your listening to can radio!"
" to be honest i like  pc over mac."