when you hover over a certain  application in the dock, the name of that application is also displayed.
so far, we've only covered the slight differences in windows 7 vs. mac os x basic interface.
notably, the mac os x dock has some unique features as well.
they allow you to open up a quick view of a folder, and jump directly to a document or program inside of the folder without opening up a new window.
although different in appearance, both folder view and stack view have the same concept.
for example, if your hover your mouse over a certain application in the dock, the dock will 'bubble up' so that you can get a clearer view of that particular application.
to use the taskbar preview feature, you must  have a windows 7
windows 7 vs. mac os x - windows 7 taskbar vs. mac os x dock click to enlarge windows 7 uses the taskbar as an easy way to launch programs, access  the start menu, monitor programs (in the tray), or even check the time.
but it's comprehensive and well balanced.
from there, you can simply hover your mouse over an active icon to get a preview.
the mac os x dock is one of the most widely used features within mac os,
be sure to continue on to page 2, where  we will list even more everyday features that differ between the two operating  systems.
both operating systems rely on basic principles to allow you to do the things you do on your computer.
for example, windows 7 uses a tray icon to alert you whenever there are automatic updates available.
windows and mac: differences in everyday operating system use - 3.
one of the most current versions of  mac os,mac os x snow leopard, uses a more featured, visually appealing dock  than previous mac os versions.
each folder that you drop into the mac os dock has the ability to be displayed as a folder or stack.
| browse site - business - computing - education - electronics - engineering - environment - finances - gaming - internet - mobile - multimedia - science - hubfolio bright hub 2 comments home > computing > mac > mac os x windows and mac: differences in everyday operating system use written by: nicholas • edited by: michael dougherty updated nov 14, 2010 • related guides: windows 7 | mac os x | operating system as different as the two operating systems also have many similarities as well.
windows 7 vs. mac os x - windows 7 taskbar vs. mac os x dock click to enlarge windows 7 uses the taskbar as an easy way to launch programs, access the start menu, monitor programs (in the tray), or even check the time.
notably, the windows 7 taskbar is much improved over previous versions of windows such as xp or vista.
the newest feature integrated with the windows 7 taskbar is called taskbar previews.
which is better - mac or pc?
and it is a rather convenient tool for launching applications, opening folders,  and more.
however,  not as many people have actually used amac computer, which makes deciding  whether or not to switch to mac a confusing task.
just to the right of the clock is a thin, rectangular blank spot that can be used to clear the desktop.
notably,  the mac os dock can hold folders.
this way, i can acheive the best balance.
check out  some of these windows 7 vs. mac os x basic principles.
notably, the mac os x dock has some unique  features as well.
everything from running programs to browsing the internet is in some way intertwined with the ui (user interface) of each operating system.
mac os x snow leopard has an applications folder in the dock, allowing you to jump to any application on your mac quickly and easily without having to navigate through different locations.
the  mac os x dock is very much the mac equivalent to the windows 7  taskbar.
both operating systems rely  on basic principles to allow you to do the things you do on your computer.
sign up for our newsletter mac channel news | view all news please, enter valid email.
chances are good that you have used windows or windows 7 before.
items can be added to the taskbar via right-click, and selecting the 'pin to taskbar' option from the context menu.
email to a friend * * leave a personal message (optional) be notified of new quizes in this topic sign up for the newsletter
notably, the windows 7 taskbar is much improved over previous versions of  windows such as xp or vista.
the windows 7 taskbar can be relocated to the left, right, or top of the  desktop.
however, not as many people have actually used amac computer, which makes deciding whether or not to switch to mac a confusing task.
blog comments powered bydisqus mac platform - appletv - ilife - itunes - iwork - mac computer reviews - mac os x - mac os x server - mac peripherals & accessories - mac user tips - news & views - software reviews featured authors most popular articles - windows and mac: differences in everyday operating system use - how to erase your history and cache from safari - a detailed guide - tips on imac fan control - save space by shrinking your pdf files - hiding the dock in mac os x - a quick guide - what are the advantages and disadvantages of mac os?
each folder that you drop into the mac os  dock has the ability to be displayed as a folder or stack.
from there, you can simply hover your  mouse over an active icon to get a preview.
and it is a rather convenient tool for launching applications, opening folders, and more.
they  allow you to open up a quick view of a folder, and jump directly to a document  or program inside of the folder without opening up a new window.
one of the most current versions of mac os,mac os x snow leopard, uses a more featured, visually appealing dock than previous mac os versions.
if you are trying to decide on whether toget a mac vs. pc, there are several other things to note.
the benefits of mac vs. pc - 4.
when turned on, dock magnification allows the dock to expand in the area that the mouse is placed.
check out some of these windows 7 vs. mac os x basic principles.
mac os x snow  leopard has an applications folder in the dock, allowing you to jump to any  application on your mac quickly and easily without having to navigate through  different locations.
download a free antivirus application for mac os x lion!
if you are trying to decide on whether toget a mac vs. pc, there are  several other things to note.
taskbar previews is basically an easy way to monitor open programs and applications without actually opening up the program into full window view.
mike rees jan 14, 2011 11:05 am this article this is actually a really good article.
mac os x dock includes a magnificaiton feature that many mac users  enjoy.
another notable feature of the windows 7 taskbar is the tray icon area,  which is often used by applications to display alerts and other important  information.
although the mac os dock does not have an equivalent to the windows 7 taskbar preview, it does have some other cool features of it's own.
like the windows 7 taskbar, the mac os x dock is used to launch  commonly used programs quickly and easily.
to use the taskbar preview feature, you must have a windows 7
the windows 7 taskbar is one of the most commonly used everyday operating system features within windows 7.
mac os x dock includes a magnificaiton feature that many mac users enjoy.
taskbar previews is basically an easy way  to monitor open programs and applications without actually opening up the  program into full window view.
although the mac os dock does not have an equivalent to the windows 7  taskbar preview, it does have some other cool features of it's own.
the windows 7 taskbar is something that you will use very frequently,  probably every time you use your computer.
alternatively, programs can be rearranged and reordered in the windows 7 taskbar by dragging and dropping.
but since most games are for windows, i will run my game on windows.
pc i am going to use a macbook, but run windows 7 on it.
alternatively, programs can be rearranged and reordered in the windows 7  taskbar by dragging and dropping.
showing page 1 of 5 12345 next » comments | flag understanding macs - mac vs pc this four part series details the simple differences between macs and pcs, the advantages of mac vs pc, and concludes with which is better, mac or pc.
notably, the mac os dock can hold folders.
the very right side of the windows 7 taskbar displays the clock.
understanding macs - differences between mac and pc - 2.
home   > computing  >  mac  >  mac os x windows and mac: differences in everyday operating system use written by: nicholas  • edited by: michael dougherty updated nov 14, 2010  • related guides: windows 7 | mac os x |  operating system as different as the two operating systems also have many similarities as  well.
comments showing all 2 comments ambrose sullivan feb 26, 2011 2:10 pm mac vs.
when you hover over a certain application in the dock, the name of that application is also displayed.
be sure to continue on to page 2, where we will list even more everyday features that differ between the two operating systems.
that's it for part 1.
i just like the hardware a bit better.
when turned on, dock magnification allows the dock to expand in the area  that the mouse is placed.
both  operating systems are good, but you may prefer the simplicity of os x over  windows.
although different  in appearance, both folder view and stack view have the same concept.
just to  the right of the clock is a thin, rectangular blank spot that can be used to  clear the desktop.
both operating systems are good, but you may prefer the simplicity of os x over windows.
learn more about these differences in terms of actual usability.
for example, windows 7 uses a tray icon to alert you whenever  there are automatic updates available.
another notable feature of the windows 7 taskbar is the tray icon area, which is often used by applications to display alerts and other important information.
like the windows 7 taskbar, the mac os x dock is used to launch commonly used programs quickly and easily.
the windows 7 taskbar can be relocated to the left, right, or top of the desktop.
powered by the parse.ly publisher platform (p3).
- setting an alarm in ical - worried about viruses on your mac?
everything from running programs to browsing the internet is in some way  intertwined with the ui (user interface) of each operating system.
the newest feature integrated with the windows 7  taskbar is called taskbar previews.
items can be added to the taskbar  via right-click, and selecting the 'pin to taskbar' option from the context  menu.
for example, if your hover your mouse over a certain  application in the dock, the dock will 'bubble up' so that you can get a  clearer view of that particular application.
showing page 1 of 5 12345 next »
please enable javascript to view thecomments powered by disqus.
the windows 7 taskbar is something that you will use very frequently, probably every time you use your computer.
click to enlarge the mac os x dock is very much the mac equivalent to the windows 7 taskbar.
so far, we've only covered the slight differences in  windows 7 vs. mac os x basic interface.
the windows 7 taskbar is one of the most commonly used everyday operating  system features within windows 7.
after reading your other one "the benefits of mac vs. pc" i wasn't too sure it was going to be,
- installing mac os on a pc - what you need - how to clean install mac os x 10.7 lion about bright hub contact us advertise with us rss site map terms of use privacy policy copyright policy ©2012 bright hub inc.