on a mac you have to download stuff like tnefdd just to open attachments sent in certain formats from a pc.
i don’t know how it compares with the mac, but it certainly impressed me with the clarity and speed of use.
the quality of support you get from apple is a lot better than from pc suppers.
report this comment after several years on pcs of one form or another, many hours of my life just trying to actually keep them working, and the good fortune of a little spare extra cash
i know pc users will be very sceptical
it’s just not in the same league for build or performance as my mac laptop report this comment i always said i didn’t need a computer nor did i want one.
the software is not always easy to use, options are hidden under system preferences, under right click menus (you do not know it is there until you right click) or even worse under right click and hold.
and mac hardware is beautifully designed and built.
so all in all, i’m fully in the mac camp and happy to stay there for the foreseeable future.
garage band is a great wee fun tool, yes, but simply saying “it’s better on mac” is nonsense.
you will need to buy all the components (from a carefully defined list of mac-compatible items) and assemble the machine yourself.
despite not having had any virus warnings during the time i subscribed to virus barrier i started to get loads of virus warnings from it following my non-renewal of subscription.
no hard sell, straight forward, no smoke and mirrors, brilliant, i love the attitude.
of course, you have no warranty beyond those of the components.
and because of the lack of competition, you’re stuck if you don’t like it.
i find macs too restrictive in what they allow you to do whereas pcs you can play with so much more (as neither a novice or a pro but somewhere in between).
mine is the size of a shoe box, has the power of an imac, and cost about £450 to build.
i made the move to the first imac and osx about 10 years ago.
report this comment i have been migrating my home setup from several windows pcs/laptops to apple devices for the last year or so.
there were a number of ad campaigns brought out by apple both in america and in the uk, wittily highlighting the advantages of a mac over a pc.
i’d never ever ever want to go back to pcs.
some balance would be nice though for the overall picture.
or even – whisper it – switched from mac  to pc?
also, the mac keyboard has no forward delete button.
you cannot buy a cheap mac, but they are priced competitively with equivalent quality pcs, so price is not a big issue.
after the expiry of the second year i decided not to renew my subscription and downloaded sophos anti virus free version from the internet.
the easy access to support and repair services is another important reason why we will never revert to pcs.
i bought much cheaper (£25) items from taiwan (via ebay).
mac owners to me can seem a bit sold into the mac lifestyle rather than having logical reasons.
for example old pre osx software (which used to run in classic) and powerpc software (which used to run with rosetta).
that’s not “a little more”.
e.g. to delete a file as andrew j wants, you can’t press “delete”, you have to press command + delete.
(from http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2011/oct/21/tanya-gold-steve-jobs-deification-apple ) report this comment switched to an imac about 4 years ago under guidance of eldest son and have never regretted it.
report this comment i switched to an imac about year ago and only wished i’d done sooner.
report this comment i was persuaded to buy a mac on the basis that using it was so much more instinctive than the pc experience.
local - thousands of recommendations for  local computer repair services which?
on them i run arch linux.
in my business most programs were pc based so i could only switch the web browsing, word-processing and spreadsheet work across.
my mac’s (i have two now) hardly ever crash and if an application does go wrong and closes, only that program shuts down, not the whole system.
as a family we now have imac, macbook, ipad, iphone x 4, appletv.
being an open rather than closed technology pcs are more likely to work with any device you plug in or attachment you try to open.
i think the biggest selling point for me is using a mac with os x, apple’s operating system.
report this comment i use an imac at work and need to use windows and mac os-x for development.
apple are a big business operating in the notoriously unstable shark pool that is high tech, so they are no angels, except when you compare them to microsoft.
my chief complaint – there is no acceptable personal accounting software for a mac (equivalent to ms money or banktree).
it does involve a bit of know-how and a bit if risk.
the music professional’s choice, pro tools, is now designed and built on pcs.
i would urge all to buy the extended guarantee that is on offer for apple products.
so, the mac is the winner.
report this comment your email is never published nor shared.
cost of applications is generally less on mac, unless you buy from microsoft apps.
i think you meant “simple”.
i already had a pc and had been using pcs for years.
our houselhold is now entirely mac – 2 imacs, 2 macbooks, ipad, 2 iphones.
they decided they wanted to aim at the amateur market, making the new programme all but useless to the professionals.
there are issues with content in iphoto shared between different users, maybe i have it set up wrong but hang on, this stuff is supposed to be easy to use.
i use pcs and windows / ms office every day at work and that environment is at long last much better than it was, however for reliability, quality and general end
stability is far better.
hardware over two years old?
it’s horses for courses.
report this comment having moved to apple mac a few years ago i would never return to windows.
report this comment dw makes an interesting point:
hi all, i was for many years an anti apple customer,i would never ever look at their products but having going to a apple store every week while my wife goes shopping i decided to investigate ,with windows there a great machine
it is a shame they lost the war to be the universal device, as they were better than the intel/microsoft collaboration.
the spreadsheet has performance issues for quite small amounts of data.
in some cases a mac equivalent is 100% more!
but how about those who have experienced both technologies, and have switched from pc to mac?
now, i’m a pc user, always have been.
but how about those who have experienced both technologies, and have  switched from pc to mac?
but after a while they practically come to a halt,i learnt that if you buy an apple product for £79 you get personal one to one training as much as you like for a year meaning you learn everything you need to know about any apple products,when you buy a window pc you take it home and that it,with apple pc you get a chance to learn the ins and out having done a course for a year now i admit i’m familiar with the system i may take a second year course to learn more about them,i admit they are expensive but trust me once you move to apple there no going back i now have i iphone i pad i mac and a mac book pro report this comment i think that the one thing that has been missed is that apple is, despite all the goodies it produces today, first and foremost a software company and builds computers to run its programmes.
pc -> gnu/linux distros like ubuntu?
sorry i didn’t make it clear before, the comparison i made was two years ago, and todays comparison shows dell to be marginally cheaper to my 17″ but without very important features… report this comment we switched to mac last november.
i have left my mac switched on for over a month with daily use (just putting to sleep when needed) and never in that time experienced a lockup or crash.
for example, even my dad suffered at it:-
try it – you won’t regret it.
partner and i use ms office as part of our jobs (can’t avoid it really).
i’m sure i could have got all the help with a desktop but being able to take my computer up to the apple store for lessons and help is just amazing.
now you may say he should have checked, and yeah
the last device will be my ‘office’ dell pc running windows xp professional.
to conclude, i can’t recommend the mac sponsored virus barrier software because i believe it was deliberately messing with my mac after not renewing the subscription and nor am i pleased that apple are not issuing a patch against trojan horses for older operating systems.
pc stands for “personal computer”.
pcs better for those who like to “get under the hood”.
if you are learning to use a computer, i think that macs are easier as they seem to be more logically set up.
and with four different printers, three scanners, wifi stereo system everything works seemlessly together.
one of my irritations with mac is their poor backwards compatibility.
if i’m wrong, i apologise and suggest you get a job copywriting.
i said to the trainer, this aperture, i suppose that you have to pay to download the programme, yes said the trainer, £45 but don’t download it straight away, do a one to one on it (effectively free) and then if you think it is useful buy it if you like.
you can’t use the automatic updater to upgrade osx – it scrambles the machine.
understandably, these reflected a corporate marketing message (the fun versus the staid and boring), and pcs hardly came off well.
i got so bad that it effectively prevented the sophos anti virus from scanning.
mac problems almost always occur with microsoft based programmes – eg word.
i now also own an ipad and an itouch and they sync like a dream.
we had heard mac was so much better and although more expensive we knew we’d get more for the money.
well apple have just “upgraded” it.
or even – whisper it – switched from mac to pc?
i agree that the cost is more for a mac but they last a lot longer than other pcs and the service is great!
i will always seek advice and reviews elsewhere.
i think there is a fundamental cognitive bias at play in reviews – if people have paid a lot for a product they are likely to rate it highly as no one likes to admit they bought the wrong thing.
more on this… which?
computing free trial - a free magazine  and access to the computing helpdesk which?
there has been a lot of publicity lately about the trojan horse infecting macs and apple are issuing patches for the later os systems but, apparently, not for the leopard os, which i have.
i nearly did it 10 years ago and was persuaded by a well meaning friend that i was probably too old to cope with how different it was!
no performance probs at all.
and i have learned a huge amount.
i did not take to the mac’s software which did not seem too instinctive to me and reverted to the pc.
report this comment i am disappointed with these kinds of articles from which?
all my mac keyboards have £ and $ and the \. admittedly, the hash needs to be got from a character palette.
reasons to love a mac …the sleek and simplistic design looks great …it works well with other apple products …you can run windows alongside mac os x using boot camp …there are fewer mac-targeting viruses (although they do now  exist) …if you have any problems, it’s simple to call applecare …the software is slick and simple to use reasons to love a pc …it’s fully customisable …there’s a wide support system available …there are stylish ultrabooks to choose from these  days …you can easily upgrade components …there’s a wide range of software available …you can easily find cheap laptop pcs
i can see why people are concerned about the initial cost of a mac but in my years of buying and owning pcs, i’ve discovered that you get what you pay for.
so now i have had two imacs, and three laptops over the years, no viruses, and very few problems.
i also have a new ipad and iphone 3gs.
but i’ve found that happens between different versions of ms office running under different versions of windows.
ms windows has had 20 years to get the techy bits right, like connecting to the internet and those pesky wizards.
many years ago, my nephew and niece wanted an ipod.
it took me about 10 days to get used to the mac operating system, no time to get used to ‘word and excel’ as they are virtually the same.
if people have paid a lot for a product (apple) they are likely to rate it highly as no one likes to admit they bought the wrong thing”.
the only other thing to consider is the ethics of the two companies.
still available on mac, but it’s now a conversion.
it all proved to be faultless.
you can have a dell windows pc, or a packard bell pc, or an acer, or asus, or ibm or sony, or….
i have both ms office and apple’s equivalent suite of software (pages, numbers, keynote) and can happily use either.
and it does just that, and very reliably.
there is no competition in my eyes.
a mac running a word processor package may be better, faster, more reliable than a pc, but a mac emulating a pc is going to be rubbish by comparison.
it’s also based on a unix os rather than a centuries old botch pitch of windows dos.
in summary, microsoft/pcs are a gimmicky con; they may be cheaper but if you value your sanity go for a mac, they aren’t perfect but they’re much more straightforward and nicer to use.
running windoze under bootcamp is fine.
i have a windows 7 pc at work – and yes w7 is a sharp improvement on the previous versions – but i still have some crashes, hangs and so on – roughly weekly.
the mac uk keyboard is a us keyboard with the £ key instead of the $ key – if you have other pc’s to use you spent time searching for # and \ all the time.
back in february we told you to… made famous after facebook bought the app for $1 billion – we take a closer look to see what all the fuss is about.
because it’s free, it’s user friendly, all the programs are free, it’s secure
report this comment we are a wholly mac household: imac; macpro, 2 x macbooks, mac mini.
the pc takes about 15 minutes.
the screen definition is beautiful.
i might even progress to more sophisticated uses.
it took me ages to find out that you can do this by pressing function + delete.
the hard disc failed after a year after pretty light use but was replaced free-of-charge through the retailer.
the mac hardware is excellent and screen superb; if you’re prepared to pay the premium for it.
my colleagues are finding they have to spend about £2000 and huge amounts of time utterly re-learning how to do their job.
got a story you want to share?
on the advice of a friend, i switched to a mac laptop, and have been able to teach myself to email, download my photos and send them, browse the internet, write letters etc.
send us your news © which? 2012
this could leave you unable to access your old databases etc.
i sometimes send work home with me because it will take half the time on my mac than the pc!
my daughter’s dell laptop running windows vista is next to be replaced.
i had bought several pcs previously, and if you go to pc world and get their reasonably cheap pcs you’ll spend a lot more money, but we’d done that before and were fed up with the failure of relatively new machines and the lack of support from pc world even when it was paid for.
report this comment i too am a silver surfer, and i switched my os from windows xp to ubuntu linux a few months ago.
add a monitor of your choice.
equally, i appreciate the “you’ll make that back” arguement, but only if you need the services apple require, and only if you make your mac last.
my usage is simple, and i have always found mac help understandable.
like most people i want just a few basic applications but i want them to work reliably and straightforwardly.
but it’s 5-10 working days, too long for me.
we have had to replace parts in all three apple laptops within the three-year warranty period.
previous iphones didn’t, but most of the media and apple sheep were happy to ignore it.
perhaps this article would be better phrased considering a switch from mac+
some don’t like that, but it does produce reliable goods that way.
they were both best buys.
my mouses are naturally as fast as i set them to be in system preferences, no idea what andrew j is on about.
if you want to think you’re an individual with the impression of free will go for a pc! report this comment ps my latest pc is, in my opinion, smarter looking than an imac as its all built into the monitor and doesn’t scream “i’m trying to be cool” at you.
and then we will be windows-free.
the various applications don’t synchronise together properly like those on a mac and i am frequently interrupted by messages and prompts for updates for some application other than the one i’m trying to use.
it is terrible when a company forces you to upgrade, or locks you in to apple products.
i have had about 5 sessions so far, lovely trainers, will talk you through just about anything
why not just buy a pc?
macs are (very broadly speaking) great for users like your dad who don’t have or indeed wish to acquire a whole load of technical knowledge.
or a pci card slot, or a multitouch trackpad
report this comment strange stuff!
ok, you can do this on pc, but it’s better on mac.”
i now run the couple of pc only programs in a window on the mac using a mac program called parallels so have the best of both worlds.
generally with windows, stuff from more than a decade ago still runs on the latest hardware.
the other concern that people have is a perceived lack of software for the mac.
i have made a hackintosh which works fine and is 60% of the cost of an equivalent mac.
recommended upgrade is a solid state disk drive which accelerates many disk-bound operations, such as loading programs, by 50%.
also the mac – bizarrely – can’t just maximise a window like the pc (although there is additional software, cinch, that can fill that gap).
you might have to upgrade or ditch your older software when you replace your hardware.
look on amazon reviews for printers and scanners and many other devices.
report this comment we switched to macs about 8 years ago.
crossover mac also allows many pc apps to run on macs without needing to install windows itself.
most reviews are positive, except the few who say, “it wont work with my mac and the epson (or whowever) tech support don’t understand macs.”
try windows 7, like vista, only “it just works”.
there are plenty of defences for choosing a pc over a mac, and for many people, these will be sufficient to deter them from switching over to the apple side of the fence.
report this comment re “had things done for nothing by apple (when they didn’t need to) is incredible”.
home and end operate differently in os-x and windows, linux etc.. 4.
it’s operating system is easy to use, it “just works”, it looks nice in the house, and, most importantly, it doesn’t throw up lot’s of error messages which, like many old-school parents, he would read and try to understand.
hit the button below to get in touch.
you’re certainly not giving a broad and informed view otherwise.
i am finding all these comments really interesting.
if you control the environment, you can ensure that your software does what it says on the tin.
i’m on a tighter budget and pcs aren’t “a bit cheaper”.
plus the time machine is a real star!!
i gave up on the pair of them a couple of years ago because of the ever upwards spiralling cost.
is talking absolute nonsense.
i have now deleted the virus barrier software and sophos now appears to work properly.
yes you can run fsx on a mac, just as you can run windows on a mac, though having had to use windows at work, i don’t know why you’d want to even though it is better than it used to be.
then i bought a mac and i was totally knocked out by it.
serious/hardcore gamers are one of the main groups who’d probably be happier with a pc.
the mouse doesn’t move fast enough and decelerates towards window corners in os-x. you can disable the deceleration but i can’t get the mouse as fast as windows without paying for additional software.
which i bought from john lewis who told me about the help i could get at the apple store
report this comment
any pensioner reading this take note.
the staff are so helpful and have infinite patience.
it really could not get any better.
they are both pretty new and both about the same power.
ease-of-use is the biggest benefit of apple products; h/w and s/w. there is an adjustment to overcome in terms of usability – the look & feel are different with switching over from 10+ years of using windows operating systems to the mac os taking a few days to adjust initially and then occasionally having to refer to help on specific points.
the words aren’t interchangeable.
they make the apple badge however.
when my pensioner dad asked what computer he should buy, i recommended a mac.
they also help with personal projects and it also includes small group workshops which i have really enjoyed.
yes, the imac does work straight from the box.
the mac is undeniably good quality, for the money it should be.
let’s not forget i could pay £700 for a good dell or acer laptop and the equivalent macbook pro would be around £1200.
and finally, the clincher, although considerably more expensive to buy, they seem to last longer.
is the mac better than pc running windows 7, not for me.
they do different tasks (run different applications) but the load on them is about the same.
many on which won’t be interested, but that’s not the point really.
if so, what are they.
53 comments most people i know that own a mac tell me how much better they are than  pcs, yet plenty of pc owners are hesitant about making the switch, or happily  maintain that there are benefits to working with a pc.
there is a pc man who lives a few streets away who has fixed the handful of pc issues i could not fix myself, at a very reasonably cost.
they know exactly what is going to be used with what and that largely is why everything just works with no conflicts.
i paid a lot of money for a mac, it wasn’t the right decision for me
well, i had to upgrade the processor to that of the macs, upgrade the ram, upgrade the os to ultimate before i got mac functionality/security, upgrade to get real actual disks, extra for online backup, extra for the same resolution screen as the mac, extra for a comparable battery, extra for bluetooth, extra to transfer my applications (apple do it for free in store or via free app) and i still didn’t get firewire 800, thunderbolt, or great bundled software.
advice switching from mac to pc (if forced to do due to work circumstances as happened to me once): keep calm, keep it simple with a minimum of ‘add ons’, make friends with the pc technician and eventually get a new job if you can.
e.g.: apple make the computer, the operating system, the software, and control the interfaces with other devices.
i have used the macs for professional, domestic and study purposes (at the ou) without any serious compatibility problems except when working for a short time with an international organization whose systems were entirely windows based.
i use lots of powerful software (i’m an editor), my pc is cheaper and easier to upgrade.
i’m a silver surfer who doesn’t need an overtly technical computer to chat to friends, write emails, use libreoffice (open source) office suite, play music, watch movies and a host of other things.
now all they do is copy.
user experience / ease of use i still always choose mac out of choice finally, where as once i was considered odd to make the mac move i am now surrounded by very many who in the last year or so have made the very same move.
the hardest part of the transition was convincing my wife who had just completed an ecdl course on a pc so didn’t want to start again.
he bought my mum an ipod for christmas, they plugged it in, it said it wasn’t compatible with his version of itunes, he should download a newer version.
report this comment i swapped to mac at home six years ago.
i’m all for people using whatever suits them best and what they like.
not as nice-looking, but you will have the compensation of knowing that you put it together yourself.
an upgrade to the latest, at the time, imac solved a lll concerns and is approaching its third anniversary, a time when the average generic pc is reaching the end of its life.
one very good thing about macs is that they maintain a lot of their value when sold secondhand.
he went to upload a newer version of osx as they were both osx 10 (10.44 to 10.5, i think), he couldn’t.
however, i should note that i have had to resort to the genius bars (technical support units at apple stores) on a number of occasions.
secondly, the design of the operating system doesn’t doesn’t give viruses permission to hurt it.
perhaps it’s really a mouse.
many who think macs are superior also think apple make the best mobile.
have since bought a macbook for my wife who was so pleased to change from her dell with windows.
hopefully it will last as long as the previous one which will represent very inexpensive computing.
and if so, how long did it take to adapt, and what was the hardest part of the transition for you?
why have apple done this?
report this comment “simplistic” design, michael?
i’ve never yet needed software that didn’t exist for the mac.
it’s the same but different….
for a start, when he asked for advice he threw in the crucial line “money’s no object”.
up until about 5 years ago it was designed only for macs, but because apple annoyed the manufacturer (again with there “our way or the high-way” attitude) they moved to pc.
son and i have iphones which are synced with address book, email, calendar.
because you can run a windows emulator….
in my experience, people who buy macs now are those who like the brand image and the look of the machines.
like i say, that’s apple’s philosophy; we make decisions, like it or lump it.
i guess i can overlook the failed hard disc even if the replacement sounds a bit squeaky.
so i bought an annual subscription and in my first year went every week for lessons.
they had a disastrous experience, in the last decade of the last century, of licencing their operating system for use on other manufacturer’s computers and this i think proves a point that microsoft maybe should have taken on board.
it was £800 cheaper to get a mac than a dell.
the following year, apple introduced the new ipod, which could play video and, you guessed it, came in hot pink.
ms office does have some compatible issues with pc versions (so when you work on something at home and take it to work you can lose formatting etc.)
follow the instructions.
they were over a £100 each, and i could not afford them.
i’ve given away my windows laptop and there is absolutely nothing that would persuade me back to microsoft.
i find the applications are easier to use and just, well nicer.
lastly, can you share any advice with people who might be considering  changing either from a windows pc to a mac or from a mac to a pc?
if you think that caring about the minute details of how everything works and looks is pretentious and “trying to be cool”, then a pc is for you.
google “hackintosh” and follow your nose.
report this comment i started with pcs in the early 90′s, and struggled with the general disaster that was windows until i eventually became so fed up with windows that i looked at macs in 2004/5, and i have never looked back.
report this comment i go along with ian’s comment below: “i think there is a fundamental cognitive bias at play in reviews.
then download a pack of software (free, but make a donation).
and i’ve not even started on using them for games.
…the sleek and simplistic design looks great …it works well with other apple products …you can run windows alongside mac os x using boot camp …there are fewer mac-targeting viruses (although they do now exist) …if you have any problems, it’s simple to call applecare …the software is slick and simple to use …it’s fully customisable …there’s a wide support system available …there are stylish ultrabooks to choose from these days …you can easily upgrade components …there’s a wide range of software available …you can easily find cheap laptop pcs
report this comment all the family have been using macs for 25 years.
several months in i also discovered mac 1 to 1 which you can purchase for £79.99 which has got to be one of my best buys ever.
i know exactly what you mean.
report this comment can you run fsx on a mac.
this is interesting when more than half of the ipad is made by samsung.
the hard discs are both only about 10% full.
the biggest time-saver for me using mac instead of windows has been photo and video editing.
advice if switching from a pc to a mac: the time saved not messing about with errors will more than make up for the extra cost of the mac.
report this comment i switched from pcs to an imac two years ago because microsoft was driving me bonkers.
i realised that i would have to buy that.
i have retained a windows laptop to run my document scanner plus some software which was not mac compatable.
and i don’t get viruses or the dreaded blue screens.
report this comment i swapped from pc to mac a couple of years ago (with the second generation of intel macs) and i have to admit that i’ve never looked back.
i realise you say “pc” as so many people think this means “windows” but promoting ignorance is no excuse.
i found the help wizard totally incomprehensible using computer language which was double dutch.
i have just ordered my first macbook pro and so the jury is out with me although i have been loving ipods and iphones for the last few years.
on the whole i trust your reviews.
but i prefer windows 7 to mac os-x for the following reasons that may seem trivial but affect your everyday usage in subtle ways: 1.
basically older programs may no longer run due to hardware or os improvements.
the main complaint against macs is the price (apart from the grumpy few who complain about them looking too good).
general usability is better on mac.
the staff answered questions quickly with specifics, they told us how much the machine would cost the cost of the extra software the cost of the applecare and offered one to one year contract with no smoke and mirrors.
the reliability of applications is better.
i go in on an almost weekly basis to my local store and have an hour’s 1to1 with one of their trainers and have learnt how to do all kinds of things i had never dreamed of.
our teenage rock band sons use them to make music.
but why not use x-plane 10, a far better simulator and available on both platforms?
and if you do have a problem – applecare engineers almost always know what to do to fix a problem.
it was a case of this is the price, this is what you get….
mac osx is better for both novices (as he/she implies) and advanced users (like me).
mac users, admittedly, have to gradually learn some geeky stuff which is a bit annoying, because it’s not obvious.
mac and osx can be used like any good quality tool to do real work without loads of tinkering and generally propping up associated with windows and a very mixed bag of hardware that you find with pcs from a design perspective macs make sense.
but it’s true: with apple, not only does it look great but ‘it just works’ too.
i don’t want all the bells and whistles and the use of hundreds of programs.
what gives it a big win is that whenever i have to close a machine down (say after a software upgrade or purge), the mac is back up in way less than a minute.
lastly, can you share any advice with people who might be considering changing either from a windows pc to a mac or from a mac to a pc?
mac support is well organised
view resultsloading ...
try that on a windoze pc!
come clean, you work for apple, don’t you?
ok, you can do this on pc, but it’s better on mac.
by that time we had 2 iphones, 1 ipad and an ipod which we loved.
the mac tends to be built with decent quality components and if you were to buy a similarly spec’d pc, the difference in price gets much less.
the fact that the os is so robust on a mac actually makes it much more difficult to get into it and make it do what i want.
mine have been faultless which is why they are still in service.
the amount of times i have had things done for nothing by apple (when they didn’t need to) is incredible.
anyone who knows their mobiles will tell you that that isn’t true either.
report this comment the huge advantage is that apple control everything.
and it’s again, very expensive.
however i a) appreciate the asthetics of macs, b) appreciate the innovation, and c) appreciate how robust (both physically and in terms of operation) they are.
just one more comment, just after christmas, went into the apple store to buy a cover for my new iphone, all the shops in the metrocentre had big sales on and lots of people were in the shops, the apple store had no sale, prices just the same as usual but the shop was full, even more than the other shops, no need for a sale!
research shows, macs do not last longer and are no more reliable than most machines designed for windows.
yes there is a premium to pay – but then i am not constantly tinkering with the pc, reinstalling windows because it has gone wrong again, or struggling to set up a network that doesn’t work.
true, they are still less liable to malware attack, but that’s not because osx is better than windows, it’s because windows users make a far tastier target because there are so many more of them.
now there are some problems: i would agree that osx is not quite as intuitive as windows – oddly enough – and there are occasional hardware problems eg disc failures, but the reliability of the hardware is good, and osx is so reliable – it almost never crashes or hangs up.
maybe the world would be a better place if apple had won the war in the eighties.
there are plenty of defences for choosing a pc over a mac, and for many  people, these will be sufficient to deter them from switching over to the apple  side of the fence.
i feel that i’m dictated to by apple whereas i’m allowed more free rein to break my pc!
i have a degree in computer science, albeit a loooong time ago).
i’m not even advocating you include linux – even though for the 95% or so of people using computers for email, browsing and the odd office document etc., it would be ideal (free in cost and virus free)….
you do not hear of pc users wanting a mac emulator!
he had to buy it for £70.
i have several pcs, none of which run windows.
i don’t have many moral scruples myself but have always tried to avoid buying anything from two companies, microsoft and news corp. don’t bother with linux unless you are knowledgeable and don’t mind a fair amount of twiddling to get everything working.
if however you get pleasure from things that are designed with thought and care, then macs are for you.
i figured if i was going to spend so much money i would be better off knowing some of the ins & outs and that has been very useful.
plus, (and this is naughty)
finally, if you do buy an apple product, try not to ignore the ethical side: “not even the glorious design …could keep the “cluster” of suicides at the apple supplier foxconn’s main manufacturing plant in longhua (china) out of the news …
report this comment i sit at a desk about 8 hours a day with a pc on the left and a mac on the right.
in my field of work, many of my colleagues use final cut pro.
but that will change soon, i hope.
an ipad is a good alternative to ultra books.
and if so, how long did it take to  adapt, and what was the hardest part of the transition for you?
i am presently using osx snowleopard.
if you only want a few windows apps then it’s a realistic solution.
when working in a design house i found that all the artists raved about macs (but this seemed to be for design and simplicity reasons rather than good for the job) but they’d never used a pc.
it’s initially difficult to get used to but works much better once you master it; for instance pages once learnt is streets ahead of word.
some of these have been decisions made by apple in each new osx release (probably to avoid the bloat that happens to windows machines).
report this comment i use a pc at work but a mac at home but really find that a mac can do more generally for design
everything is integrated and it “just works”.
it worked faultlessly with an otherwise redundant ten year old epson scanner straightaway.
when my pc breaks i can pop down my local computer store, get the parts, do it myself and be back up and running in a matter of hours.
mac evangelists will no doubt disagree!
aple used to be innovators.
i tried not to make this sound like a rant, i’m certainly not a linux fanatic, i just want to see some accuracy in articles like this.
don’t waste your money on the greedy big two.
this has made my computer experience very enjoyable and the computer in 5 years has never let me down.
as always, there are two sides to every argument.
report this comment after 25 years working in it i pretty much knew everything there was to know about pc’s.
we took the one to one sessions, 1 year £79 as many 1 hour sessions as you like.
microsoft pcs are clunky and erratic, continually give error messages and warnings in geeky, unintelligible coded language fit only for it experts, and seem to crash all the time — vista home was dreadful, the old xp was almost ok in comparison.
the days when they were superior in any field (e.g. graphics, video editing, user interface, stability) are long gone.
but crucially, not for everyone.
in fact, yes, maybe you should review it (maybe ubuntu, as mentioned by jon).
i bought a new acer pc when the new vista came out a few years ago as our mac was getting to be incompatible with newer software, the pc has been an irritation to use ever since.
ill stick to my are working reliable mac thanks you very much.
if you are attaching an item to an email and double click in the wrong place the system starts preparing an attachment around 50gb in size and you can do nothing with the system until it decides to give up.
it’s not my editor of choice but don’t get me wrong, it’s a brilliant programme that was even used to edit the social network.
report this comment i have switched from pc to mac a couple of years ago and have just switched back from mac to windows 7.
you might even educate at the same time.
apple have been taking samsung to court lately for theft of ipad technology etc (and samsung have sued apple for other things).
despite the extra initial cost and cost associated with acquiring a new set of software i have not once looked back.
report this comment for an oap, you really write like a us-based marketing exec.
ask yourself: - what’s your budget - what are you going to use it for - will these tasks require your computer to be upgraded in the near future - are you computer literate - if you are, do you like your computer running “just so” and don’t mind spending time doing that, or would you rather relinquish a bit control for solidity - do you have any other devices you’d like to connect with.
the imac “seems” to do a lot of background manipulation quicker.
change to macs is not difficult, and under most circumstances, files are transferrable between the two – ie a powerpoint written under osx will display under w7 – although there may be some small formatting changes.
it is legal, but you have to be a bit of a nerd to follow through on the instructions.
before i had a laptop which crashed twice when i was deployed or deploying and the company could not understand my urgency to get it fixed and it had to be sent out of the country!
i need an awful lot of different programmes for an awful lot of tasks and pc offers a much wider variety and, because of that, better pricing.
admittedly there are a lack of games that run on os x
report this comment excellent post.
but i have had issues they cannot fix.
yes macs are more expensive but it is a relief to use a computer where things work and the design is so user friendly.
a few windows-only applications to migrate
my wife was happy to use the mac for surfing the net, emails and creating documents with a third-party office-like suite.
this was the very best way to get to know the computer and i have kept up the subscription and now only get help when i need it.
i have friends who have much older macs that they are still using.
my niece got a hot pink version, which could play all the music of the ipod and also play videos, which apple’s product could not.
it came with the leopard os already loaded by the retailer.
i love the imac, my husband and i fight over it and neither wants to wait for the pc to boot up.
i subscribed to the virus barrier x5 software for two years.
we did buy a small windows machine about 2 years ago, because of the price difference, but it is no longer in use!
you plug in a new printer – the mac recognises it instantly; set up a new wireless network – the mac instantly asks if you want to join to it.
as long as you’re happy and it does what you want, you’ve bought the right one.
understandably, these reflected a corporate marketing message  (the fun versus the staid and boring), and pcs hardly came off well.
this has not been as big an issue as it may sound since the quality of the service offered by the staff in the genius bars is excellent, and we live relatively close to an apple store where we can go to seek help at very short notice.
waiting for everyone else to join me :)
lastly, you’re locked in to apple’s way of thinking.
we had sorted out which software would need to be replaced and we kept the old pc to run a couple of programmes that we didn’t want to place straight away.
oh, and as for loving a (windows) pc because “…it’s fully customisable” – i presume you mean hardware wise because the os is certainly not customisable.
as a pensioner, i cannot spend any more money than necessary on expensive microsoft or apple mac upgrades or antivirus software.
then get what you want.
pcs gave me a computer rage wobbly several times a day, the macs (i now have the brilliant ipad2 which works beautifully with the imac) upset me mildly about every other month, and it’s mostly my fault.
can’t conceive of going back to windoze.
i would draw a distinction between windows 7 and previous versions, it is much better.
but it is easier to use in certain pc apps.
mine whizzes across the screen with no deceleration.
the old version is still great, but within 18months, it’ll be dated useless.
for example, only the latest iphone 4s works properly as a phone because it has a decent antenna.
together they complete by e-family!
i regularly find myself swearing at the pc – this didn’t happen with the mac!
can you run imovie on a pc i don’t think so… but that’s not a very helpful comment report this comment
98% of pensioners do not need to spend a fortune to enjoy the www … do yourself a favour, go linux ubuntu or one of the linux other flavours, you won’t regret it.
the imac screen is better.
my niece wanted the light pink.
that actually made me laugh, you get the same lock down with windows and macos.
the buying experience was brilliant, they answered questions, even those not asked, when we wanted small amendments to the standard these were changed without extra charge or any trouble, when they offered applecare and one to one there was no hard sell, just would you like that?
overtime in these factory cities is often forced … apple pays just £3.99 for the production of your £600 iphone”.
report this comment don’t get me wrong, i am a mac fan of over 20 years usage with 6 macs and 2 windows machines in the house.
for example, my dad has had his for years and being a mac it’s never broken, but equally he’s never had to upgrade it as he only uses it for internet, email, and office stuff.
ms word, for instance, loads in about 1.5 seconds.
since the hardware and software have been designed by the same company and with each other in mind, it has produced a system (in my experience) that is incredibly robust, doesn’t crash and can upgrade itself with little or no impact on my daily work.
for me, the very things that are advantages to my dad, are disadvantages to me.
pcs are so much better because they’re adaptable.
it transformed my 9 years old pc, and i certainly won’t be going back to windows.
ps can you tell us what fsx is and why anyone needs it- cheers?
make the change and you won’t regret it once you get used to it.
i could echo a lot of the other points people have made already.
report this comment i have found this problem when upgrading operating systems on pcs over the years.
report this comment surely it’s horses for courses, and only one “type” of ser seems to have been represented.
itunes said it wasn’t compatible with his version of osx.
the mac does not work with my digital camera, all pcs in the house do.
especially for an organisation which is putting itself forward as technologically proficient.
at the beginning it took a few days and a few phone calls to my son to get used to it, but have never regretted changing.
report this comment i think you will find that a lot of apple devices are made by other companies, the same as a pc.
no. report this comment dave clark is wrong when he says “a mac running a word processor package may be better, faster, more reliable than a pc, but a mac emulating a pc is going to be rubbish by comparison.”
plug in any camera and it does everything for you.
we are now converts totally.
related where computing is concerned – hardware or software.
but i have run quite demanding software under windows using bootcamp (which comes with every mac) and it seems fine so far.
i have experience incompatibilities between the mac and different routers (a variety of pc versions all worked without trouble).
you try and upgrade a mac and you’ll find that you ohave little scope to do it
(i’m not being a show-off here.
in a mobile age, you might feel you don’t need a cordless phone at all – and the 15% of mobile-only homes would probably agree.
however, if you want something that looks cool, is easy to use and you’re not fussed about being dictated to by apple go for a mac.
anyway, my wife’s just retired and insisted on a pc (adell inspiron).
all i can say is that even though i am now officially an oap i have not found it that difficult.
required fields are marked*name * i accept the terms & conditions already registered?
you can add memory and disk storage to suit yourself.
are you interested in reviews of phone and tablet apps?
laptop reviews - help you find best buy  laptops for all budgets other tags:
what oap writes “several months in” , “local store” , “you can purchase for £79.99″ , “the kind of things i had never dreamed of” and “sync like a dream”.
yes, i have purged and optimised the pc, but it is still slow to reboot.
i (although pcs are now much better than they were)
report this comment i was brought up in a pc environment but have used both pc and mac for the last 10 years.
most people i know that own a mac tell me how much better they are than pcs, yet plenty of pc owners are hesitant about making the switch, or happily maintain that there are benefits to working with a pc.
report this comment i started with a dell + microsoft windows.
maybe he should have, but it flies in the face of “apples just work.”
two of my previous pc’s failed dramatically, one at 14 months and one at 37 months.
you can pretty much find all the apps you need on both platforms.
guess how long the warranties were?
report this comment apple = over-priced, microsoft =
having switched from pc to mac some 10 years ago, i can say that total cost of ownership of mac is less than pc.
my first imac served me well for 10 years and was only superseded because applications had grown as new versions were released, they became bloated, (microsoft word and excel together with a music score writing programme) and so were running too slowly.
everything is designed to work together, hardware, software, and itunes, app store etc ….
since then, i’ve bought a macbook (as has my partner).
report this comment if you want you can run most windows apps on a mac (not mac pls!)
report this comment god, that was an essay, eh? report this comment to be honest there is no huge difference between macs and pcs when it comes to pure functionality, both will do just about anything you ask of them, so it’s really just a matter of taste.
it was a bit strange at first, the best way to get people to understand is to describe it as driving a left hand drive car.
report this comment very true.
we discussed with the staff in the apple store what we needed and that is where you have the first joys!
mostly this is great, but not always.
if my dad’s computer breaks, apple picks it up for him, fixes it, sends it back free of charge.
but despite its little flaws macs save me all the hassle of antivirus, anti spam, anti adware, registry cleaning and all the other time wasting pc users have to spend their days with.
i believe this anti-virus software is sponsored by mac.
in fact i have just done this again today and dell want nearly £1,900… don’t bother.
report this comment i started switching from a pc to a mac in 2001.
try doing that on windows!
you can do sessions on aperture their advanced photo editing programme.
you can’t delete a file by hitting delete – you have to use the mouse.
i use whichever the situation demands.
but you can build your own for 60% of the cost!
report this comment i nearly bought a dell laptop, but ended up with a mac.
i have several programs which only work on pc’s.
mac blows windows out of the water and has saved me literally days of time and effort producing high-quality slideshows and movies.
you let yourself down however with things like this and i certainly wouldn’t rely on anything which?
while initially it took us a few months to get used to the macs, we would not now go to windows based machines again.
there is a possibility in years to come that they may be developed for android, but fruity versions?
but within ten seconds, it’s down to the bits and bites which, while ok-ish for me, must bamboozle 90% of users.
but here and now, windows is the only choice.
buy (yes, sadly and correctly — this is not about piracy) a copy of osx.
you can buy a mac and use a windows emulator.
they all work together seemlessly; particularly with wireless and icloud features in latest versions apple operating systems.
i have both osx and windoze 7 on my macbook and they co-exist fine.
this makes the mac a winner for me, but not a big winner.
however i had to work towards a teaching qualification and handwriting assignments was a huge chore- i didn’t want a desk top so 5 researched lap tops via which magazine and decided on an apple.
ok, bootcamp is not an emulator, but the point stands.
lastly, can i just say, the person that wrote “our teenage rock band sons use them to make music.
upsides (apart from cost)?
there were a number of ad campaigns brought out by  apple both in america and in the uk, wittily highlighting the advantages of a  mac over a pc.
and i now own a macbook, a macbook pro, an iphone and two ipads.
at home i run a pc for all my ‘serious’ stuff but use iphones and ipads linked into it because i like the design of them.
sums up my feelings exactly.
the latest versions of iphoto and imovie are incredible.