my main objective was to be able to transcribe all this technical mumbo-jumbo into an educational, interesting, readable — and occasionally even entertaining — report.
although the information presented here was originally designed for  schools,it is now applicable for any business or individual who is  making a mac/pc decision...
in any case, i’ve tried to  choose good fonts and sizes.
download a single printable pdf version of the whole site, with hyperlinks and bookmarks (115± pages, 1.8 mb;
updated july 6, 2010
over the last few years this site has taken on a life much bigger (and  more important) than what happens in one small school district, so our emphasis  now is on debunking pc myths.
about 2/3 of the pages have been revised, but not all hyperlinks are set yet.]
my challenge has been to find (i.e. research) and read well overfour thousand studies, reports, and articles that have been published on the macvs pc topic.
if you have the time and interest  to assist with this, please let me know!
before digging deeper...
as i’ve said all along, even though i amnot a  professional web designer, hopefully you will find the site reasonably easy to  navigate and attractively laid out.
but this amount of time has had a serious impact on my life: economic and otherwise.
in mid-2000 our local north carolina k-12 school district decided to "standardize on the windows/pc platform."
but this amount of time has had a serious impact on my life: economic and  otherwise.
the bulk of my time was then spent with the remaining 1200±, trying to digest them in more detail, then synopsizing the material, and organizing each one into the site.
that said something similar to the following: in japan, they  have replaced the impersonal and unhelpful microsoft error messages with haiku  poetry messages.
over the last few years this site has taken on a life much bigger (and more important) than what happens in one small school district, so our emphasis now is on debunking pc myths.
on each of our main section pages i will cite an example: out of memory.
i, john droz, was asked to be their spokesperson and to create this  website.
i would like to think that the resulting pages are a comprehensive, beneficial, and unique resource towards helping people get a better understanding of the very important mac vs pc issue.
(please attribute proper credit.)
my main objective was to be able to transcribe all this  technical mumbo-jumbo into an educational, interesting, readable — and  occasionally even entertaining — report.
at that time 90%+ of their  computers were macs.
my idea of a haiku would be something  like this (remember i am a physicist): choose mac or pc?
in the meantime, check the web pages for the latest material.]
in mid-2000 our local north carolina k-12 school district decided to  "standardize on the windows/pc platform."
at that time 90%+ of their computers were macs.
we wish to hold the whole sky, but we never will.
a group of local taxpayers (including teachers) felt that  this was inappropriate from several perspectives, and started working on  reviewing the merits of this decision.
if i knew more code i could probably do a better job of having pages look  optimum for all browsers on all platforms.
about  2/3 of the pages have been revised, but not all hyperlinks are set yet.]
any windows/pc advocates who have nothing better to do than flame me,  feel free to do sohere.
download (for all platforms)
[this is an intermediate update since we are falling behind a bit here.
in my internet travels, i found a few sites (none gave direct attribution)
i would like to think that the  resulting pages are a comprehensive, beneficial, and unique resource towards  helping people get a better understanding of the very important mac vs pc issue.
if you are looking for icons doing backflips, etc.
we wish to hold the whole sky, but  we never will.
to make this site more useful, i have set up the html so that when you  click on a link, anew window will open with that information  (while keeping the page you were on, in the background).
if you have suggestions for making the text more  readable, please let me know.
this type of poetry has strict construction rules — each poem has only 17 syllables: 5 syllables in the first line, 7 in the second, and 5 in the third.
all views expressed herein are the views of the author and the quoted parties.
my idea of a haiku would be something like this (remember i am a physicist): choose mac or pc?
[periodically check the revision date of this file: significant changes will be result in a modified version and a new date.
[for the curious, gohere for more details about our local situation.]
this 2005 edition has been my second major redesign of the site since its inception in mid 2001...
if you would like to encourage me to continue this effort — or  if you find the work already done to be useful to you — a paypal  contribution would bemost appreciated: just click on the  paypal icon below.
at this time i have over 150 new reports and  articles to be incorporated into the website.
the majority of these were  discarded for a variety of reasons (too obtuse, outdated, repetitious, etc.).
you’ve come to  the wrong place.
this 2005 edition has been my second major redesign of the site since its  inception in mid 2001...
now everyone wants to know.
sending us a copy of published references would be appreciated.
(gohere to see the whole extraordinary thing.)
we do major updates about once a year.
rather than  have people wait for the final version, this can be printed out now.
in honor of the macintosh 20th year anniversary  (2004), you’ll note that i have included a few screen shots from the 1984  superbowl advertisement (one of the most acclaimed advertisement in history),  as its message still resonates today.
rather than have people wait for the final version, this can be printed out now.
haikus are used to communicate a timeless  message, often achieving a wistful, yearning and powerful insight through  extreme brevity.
also, i look at my role here as more of an editor than an author.
haikus are used to communicate a timeless message, often achieving a wistful, yearning and powerful insight through extreme brevity.
[for the curious, gohere for more details about  our local situation.]
one of the purposes of these pages is to benefit the entire mac  community, so if you need to reference any material  on this site, please feel free to do so.
the mac vs pc site contribute
since i started this site in march of 2001, i have put well over fifteen  hundred hours into researching material, putting it all together, editing  updates, creating pdfs, answering email, etc.
the bulk of my time was then spent with the remaining 1200±, trying  to digest them in more detail, then synopsizing the material, and organizing  each one into the site.
if you would like to encourage me to continue this effort — or if you find the work already done to be useful to you — a paypal contribution would bemost appreciated: just click on the paypal icon below.
[periodically check the revision date of this  file: significant changes will be result in a modified version and a new  date.
after you look the new  page over and then close that window (a simple keyboard shortcut), you will  immediately be back at the original referencing page.
this should make  navigation simpler for you.
however, since common  usage implies that pc means an "ibm compatible" computer with  microsoft windows as its sole operating system (aka wintel), that is  what we will mean when we say pc here.
as i’ve said all along, even though i amnot a professional web designer, hopefully you will find the site reasonably easy to navigate and attractively laid out.
this type of poetry has strict construction rules — each  poem has only 17 syllables: 5 syllables in the first line, 7 in the  second, and 5 in the third.
however, to be accurately informed, i would suggest  that you first read theentire site (115± pages of some  1200 referenced reports, studies, etc.).
my  challenge has been to find (i.e. research) and read well overfour  thousand studies, reports, and articles that have been published on  the macvs pc topic.
since i started this site in march of 2001, i have put well over fifteen hundred hours into researching material, putting it all together, editing updates, creating pdfs, answering email, etc.
adobe reader (to read pdf files).
this web site is designedto help you make a more  informed computer purchase, not to showcase web page design —  i.e.the emphasis is on the 115± pages (8.5" x 11") of  ad-free content.
that said something similar to the following: in japan, they have replaced the impersonal and unhelpful microsoft error messages with haiku poetry messages.
hosting services provided by wehostmacs.com copyright© john droz 2006.
i, john droz, was asked to be their spokesperson and to create this website.
in the meantime, check  the web pages for the latest material.]
[this is an  intermediate update since we are falling behind a bit here.
we realize that "pc" stands for "personal computer"  — which means that macsare pcs.
the answer is clear.
the majority of these were discarded for a variety of reasons (too obtuse, outdated, repetitious, etc.).
a group of local taxpayers (including teachers) felt that this was inappropriate from several perspectives, and started working on reviewing the merits of this decision.
(gohere to see the whole extraordinary  thing.)
download a single printable pdf version of the whole site, with  hyperlinks and bookmarks (115± pages, 1.8 mb; revised:  5/04/05).
despite doing my best i now find that i am getting a bit behind in  keeping the site up-to-date.
in honor of the macintosh 20th year anniversary (2004), you’ll note that i have included a few screen shots from the 1984 superbowl advertisement (one of the most acclaimed advertisement in history), as its message still resonates today.