first of all, pc is  better becuase you can play more games on them then mac computers.
playing games on a pc, you have have to have a good ram and cpu.
join in and write your own page!
(c)  copyright 2008-11 build-creative-writing-ideas.com purchase some of author bryan cohen's books at  the following sites!
1,000 creative writing prompts: amazon,  smashwords, bcwi, barnes & noble, kobo, sony ted saves the world:  amazon, smashwords, barnes & noble sharpening the pencil: amazon,  smashwords, bcwi, barnes & noble 500 writing prompts for kids:  amazon, smashwords, bcwi, barnes & noble writer on the side: amazon ,smashwords, bcwi, barnes & noble chekhov kegstand: amazon,  smashwords, barnes & noble covenant coffee (ep. 1):
pc's can have bigger amount of ram and a better cpu then mac.
click here to post comments.
if i had to choice between a pc or mac, i would pick a pc because you can play more games on pc,and you can fix them fast.
pc's can  have bigger amount of ram and a better cpu then mac.
second of all, pc's are much easier to fix then mac's  because all you have to do is remove the protecter that cover all of the  thing's inside of the computer and then, replace what wasn't wrond in the  computer.
simply click here to return tofree creative writing prompts #1.
one because they can play  more video games on pc's , and pc's are easier to fix.
so,  those are the reasons why pc's and better then mac's.
you have to have a fan so your computer wont over heat.
first of all, pc is better becuase you can play more games on them then mac computers.
second of all, pc's are much easier to fix then mac's because all you have to do is remove the protecter that cover all of the thing's inside of the computer and then, replace what wasn't wrond in the computer.
you have to have a fan so your computer  wont over heat.
with mac's, you have to do more work opening the computer.
simply click  here to return tofree creative writing prompts #1.
so, those are the reasons why pc's and better then mac's.
one because they can play more video games on pc's , and pc's are easier to fix.
playing games on a pc, you  have have to have a good ram and cpu.
[ ?]  subscribe to this site pc or mac if i had to choice between a pc or mac, i would pick a pc because you can  play more games on pc,and you can fix them fast.