well, consumers don't usually picket your store or campus, they just go somewhere else
filed under: switch2mac | link cosmos | view comments (0) | post your  comment (closed)
and i think there's a quiet revolution going on.
mark asserts that there is a better way to compute and is puzzled as to why hordes of consumer aren't revolting in the streets, or the redmond campus, over windows.
please visit our  home page for the current site.
i've switched, my developer friends have switched,apple's retail stores are full, the mac mini is selling out, and apple's brand isstronger than ever.
blog: switch2mac why does windows still suck?
this isn't about mac v pc any longer, but a  product that's broken vs one that works.
why do pc users put up with so many  viruses and worms?
mark asserts that there  is a better way to compute and is puzzled as to why hordes of consumer aren't  revolting in the streets, or the redmond campus, over windows.
as my latest friend to switch said, "i don't care if it's windows, mac, linux, or joe bob's os, i just want it to work, not crash, and not continously need security updates."
as my latest friend to switch said,  "i don't care if it's windows, mac, linux, or joe bob's os, i just want it  to work, not crash, and not continously need security updates."
more people are switching because they're just tired of windows and realize  there has to be a better way.
i've switched, my developer friends  have switched,apple's retail stores are full, the mac mini is selling out, and  apple's brand isstronger than ever.
more people are switching because they're just tired of windows and realize there has to be a better way.
.mac please note that you're viewing an, older archived version of this page.
if you'd like to comment on this post, please contact us.
and so the book begins ads .mac please note that you're viewing an, older archived version of this page.
feb 05 by dl byron writing a passionate article for the san francisco gate, mark morford asks , "why does windows still suck?
and i  think there's a quiet revolution going on.
why isn't everyone on a mac?"
note: comments are closed.
this isn't about mac v pc any longer, but a product that's broken vs one that works.
please visit our home page for the current site.
you probably found it through google, an older link, or post.
well, consumers  don't usually picket your store or campus, they just go somewhere else
filed under: switch2mac | link cosmos | view comments (0) | post your comment (closed)
i can't disagree with that.
writing a passionate article for the san francisco gate, mark morford asks , "why does windows still suck?
© 1997 - 2007 textura design | | privacy | accessibility
why do pc users put up with so many viruses and worms?