the register's scott gilbertson has posted a review of ubuntu 10.04, officially available as of thursday, noting that this is an important update for the popular linux distro, combining new social network with media capabilities and a brace of online services with a brand new look.
these usually stay within the $10-$20 range.
this is a really exciting opportunity to expand the gaming industry and make it more inclusive for mac users by providing the same level of support that we give to our pc users.
look no further than  this year's apple design awards, which will only honor iphone and ipad apps -  no category for mac apps...." link: is apple making the mac a second-class citizen?
a full list of available files, including bittorrent files, can be found at: http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/ editor's note: for a hands-on review, see a mac user tries out ubuntu 10.04 lucid lynx.
the live image allows you to try ubuntu netbook edition without changing your computer at all, and at your option to install it permanently later.
healthcare - by scanning patient documents, insurance cards and driver's license at patient registration and creating a digital image accessible to the patient's authorized care providers, hospitals can reduce registration time, solve data inaccuracy problems and improve customer relationships.
owc mercury on-the-go solutions require no external power; they reliably  bus power via a single port - no y-cables or dual ports required!
visioneer is committed to conserving natural resources and minimizing our impact on the environment.
know that google chrome is extremely fast, secure, and out of your face.
" link: ultimate collection of google related mac apps macfixit's joe aimonetti reports: "users have experienced an issue where the fans in their late-2009 27-inch imacs run at full speed after installing the smc firmware update 1.0.
it provides for the following situations: lvm and/or raid partitioning; there are two images available, each for a different type of computer: the live cd allows you to try ubuntu netbook edition without changing your computer at all, and at your option to install it permanently later.
productive in any location, the strobe 400 may be powered through the computer's usb port, or via wall-power.
normally this would have involved steve jobs having one of his keynote talks where he gathers the press on short notice, but this last time around it just all happened on the apple store website without any fanfare.
kingsley-hughes queries.
"in cases where this happens, it is most likely the result of the smc  update not being applied properly...." link: 27-inch imac fans running full speed after smc update ubuntu ubuntu 10.04 lucid lynx released pr: linux distro canonical has released ubuntu 10.04 lts (lucid  lynx) in desktop, server and netbook editions.
"what is it about chrome that people like?"
in  case you hadn't noticed, when the last update to the macbook pros happened,  there were some major changes made to the product line.
"while i certainly don't feel that apple is about to kill off the macs anytime soon, it does feel like the company is lessening the importance of the product line inside of its corporate structure, and amongst the developers.
"this means over the past year, as a self proclaimed apple fan boy, i have begun to wonder if i will have to choose sides between apple and google...." link: am i no longer
most are free downloads but there  are a few that you'll have to purchase.
a standard customer service response, a signature image on an email, a clause in a contract - each of these can be inserted in any application with just a couple of keystrokes.
" link: has apple abandoned the mac?
check 21 reduces the time, risks and costs associated with paper check processing and accelerates cash flow for retail merchants, small/medium businesses and civic organizations.
featuring a new look that some  rate more attractive and up-to-date than snow leopard's, "lucid  lynx's" new graphics card drivers and other consumer-oriented innovations  front a linux-based operating system package containing all the essential  productivity applications you need for free: a web browser, office suite, media  apps, instant messaging and much more, and is being pitched as an open-source  alternative to windows and office or mac os x and the iapps.
advice is presented in good faith, but what works for one may not work for all.
usb 2.0 model firewire 400 + usb 2.0 "combo" model firewire 800/400 + usb 2.0 'triple' model also available: owc on-the-go 2.5" 'add your own drive' kits from $24.99.
the strobe 400 includes patented paper driven and autolaunch technologies so scanning begins as soon as a document is inserted into the scanner.
bundled software includes nuance® paperport, omnipage pro, newsoft presto!
"while i certainly don't feel that apple is about to kill off the macs  anytime soon, it does feel like the company is lessening the importance of the  product line inside of its corporate structure, and amongst the developers.
likely not, but they should be -
also noteworthy was the inclusion  of ubuntu enterprise cloud (uec) which enabled organizations to deploy a  private computing cloud in their own data center.
for the majority of those 9 years  apple was taking on microsoft and so i swore of the windows os and begrudgingly  used microsoft office for mac until iwork 09 was released.
bizcard, an enhanced twain and wia driver and visioneer onetouch with kofax vrstm technology for the pc.
there are some mac os x developer sessions and labs, but not many.
built to for performance, reliability, and durability, mercury on-the-go models have been recognized with top reviews and include 'very good', 'gear of the year', and editor's choice award bestowments.
razer is completely committed to supporting mac users and will be releasing drivers to equip existing products with mac compatibility.
insurance/financial services - from sarbanes-oxley to the patriot act, records management has become an important part of doing business.
by digitizing documents, they can be shared in electronic form rather than sharing via fax, reprinting or copying, saving the user time, money and valuable resources.
or the no-fuss way it updates itself?
if you have a non-64-bit processor made  by amd, or if you need full support for 32-bit code, use the intel x86 images  instead.
we also track ipod touch, ipod classic, ipod nano, and ipod shuffle deals.
-- special introductory price of $59.95!!
(translation: mac os x 10.7 is  not going to be announced this year.)
there is one image available: netbook live image
link: ubuntu (there is also a powerpc build for those using pre-intel macs)
gilbertson reports that ubuntu founder mark shuttleworth wants ubuntu to beat mac os x on features and interface polish, and while lucid lynx still has some rough edges, this release is a huge leap for ui design in linux and puts ubuntu well on its way to shuttleworth's goal with an array of new applications, features, and services that make ubuntu seem more like a consumer-friendly operating system (like os x) rather than the linux of the command line loving past.
normally this would  have involved steve jobs having one of his keynote talks where he gathers the  press on short notice, but this last time around it just all happened on the  apple store website without any fanfare.
apple, the apple logo, macintosh, ipad iphone, imac, ipod, macbook, magsafe, mac pro, apple tv, and airport areregistered trademarks of apple inc.
various stories have already been written about this (links at the bottom).
the strobe 400 can be connected to computer quickly via the hi-speed usb 2.0 interface and has a resolution of 600 dpi.
version link: browser market share is apple giving ox a second place behind the iphone os?
"is it that's a lightweight browser, or the fact that it's pretty  secure?
these usually stay within the $10-$20  range.
an apple fan boy if i use google?
" editor's note: your editor would say all of the above, save for the last two speculatives, plus the facts that its really fast, has a kick-ass, no-fuss download manager, and generally hauls the mail.cm link: why is google's chrome getting so much attention?
look no further than this year's apple design awards, which will only honor iphone and ipad apps - no category for mac apps...." link: is apple making the mac a second-class citizen?
technobuffalo.com says: "perhaps 'abandoned' is too strong of a word, but it sure does seem that apple's interest in its flagship mac product line seems to be waning somewhat....
link:  operating system market share by os link:  operating system  market share by os
kingsley-hughes  queries.
combining a sleek and simple design with a high performance 3.5g 3500 dpi infrared sensor, the razer abyssus mirror special edition features a special edition black chrome mirror finish while maintaining all of the key features of the original razer abyssus.
the strobe 400 is slim and lightweight, measuring only 11.6" x 2.5" x 2" and weighs a mere 22 ounces and when used in duplex mode, the strobe 400 scans both sides of the page in only 6 seconds.
besides this new killer feature, the new version delivers a number of other improvements like an option to globally enable and disable individual sets, further speed enhancements, increased compatibility with mac os x 10.6 (snow leopard) and many applications like mellel, nisus writer pro as well as smoother synchronization via dropbox or mobile me.
for information about purchases, including enterprise licenses, volume discounts, and upgrade pricing offers, see the company's web site.
ubuntu lucid lynx: a mactastic experience the register's scott gilbertson has posted a review of ubuntu 10.04,  officially available as of thursday, noting that this is an important update  for the popular linux distro, combining new social network with media  capabilities and a brace of online services with a brand new look.
low end mac, lowendmac, and lowendmac.com are trademarks of cobweb publishing inc.
for more details, see ourterms of use.
computerworld blogger mitch wagner says: "apple announced the dates of its annual worldwide developers  conference.
64-bit pc (amd64) desktop cd - choose this to take full advantage of  computers based on the amd64 or em64t architecture (e.g., athlon64, opteron,  em64t xeon, core 2).
though they tend to  favor pcs with earlier releases of new software, eventually they get around to  throwing mac users some great apps as well.
it provides for the following situations: setting up automated deployments; upgrading from older installations without network access; lvm and/or raid partitioning; installs on systems with less than about 256 mb of ram (although note that  low-memory systems may not be able to run a full desktop environment  reasonably).
linux and all the other significant players gained or held their ground.
with our great new prices, that value gets even better!
there are two images available, each for a different type of computer: the alternate install cd allows you to perform certain specialist installations of ubuntu.
that said, chrome is the browser of choice for a good chunk of people - but it's still limited to 'those who know'.
visit ergonis software's website to learn more about the changes in this release and to download and try the new version.
in terms of specific versions os, windows 7's momentum continues, accelerating slightly, while windows xp and vista are fading, and apple's os x 10.6 snow leopard is now the most prolific mac os version prowling, more than tripling os x 10.4
"where i work, almost every developer uses chrome.... "do you use chrome yet?
hell, apple had members of google sitting on apple's  board.
you will need at least 256 mb of ram to  install from this cd.
we actively implement measures to increase efficiency, conserve energy and water, improve air quality, and reduce waste through our office building operations, waste management, and product development programs.
follow us on twitter.
tiger's receding user share - a contrast with windows, whose os x 10.4 contemporary windows xp is still far and away the most prolific version in the windows space.
you can get drive genius 3 for $39 with the purchase of any owc external storage solution.
" link: steve jobs says apple is not de-emphasizing mac os x macsimum news' dennis sellers says: "okay, i'm still hacked off that apple is only allowing iphone and ipad apps in the 2010 apple design awards.
he suggests that school it departments should seriously consider ubuntu instead of (or in addition to) windows 7, mac os x, and various server upgrades when updating their systems over the summer break, noting that there are probably plenty of places where the latest and greatest (and it really is great) release from canonical can save you money and hassle in the long run.
"the focus is heavily iphone os centric.
you will need at least 256 mb of ram to install from this cd.
thus, the potential productivity boost cannot be fully achieved," said christoph reichenberger, ceo of ergonis software.
typinator can be purchased securely on the ergonis software website.
we're seeing rumors that the next-generation iphone will be announced and available at the june event.
all of our  solutions utilize the best qualified hard drive mechanisms for optimum  performance and reliability.
configured as a dual platform product, the strobe 400 bundled software and drivers support windows 7, vista, and xp, as well as mac os x 10.4 and above, including snow leopard.
link: visioneer strobe 400 pr: razer, specialist high-end precision gaming and lifestyle peripherals, announces the razer abyssus mirror special edition gaming mouse.
there are some mac os x  developer sessions and labs, but not many.
but apple seems to be giving the cold shoulder to its longtime mainstay business: the mac....
this live image is optimized for netbooks with screens up to 10".
to buy from the mac app storeclick here now!!
link: ubuntu's lucid lynx: a (free) mactastic experience ubuntu 10.04: never a better time to switch zdnet education blogger christopher dawson says he's been using the betas  of ubuntu 10.04, the final releases of which launched last week, in both  desktop and server environments for a while, and has been incredibly pleased.
"just to be thorough, let's start out the list with the official  google apps that you're probably already familiar with.
it will also automatically convert, at the user's option, any scanned item into a text-searchable pdf file while maintaining the visual integrity of the original document.
or the no-fuss  way it updates itself?
has apple abandoned the mac? technobuffalo.com says: "perhaps 'abandoned' is too strong of a word, but it sure does seem  that apple's interest in its flagship mac product line seems to be waning  somewhat....
all of these  applications are free, ready to download, and possess the high quality you'd  expect from google.
the strobe 400 supports mac users with exactscantm, a driver and capture application that integrates with the onetouch scanning buttons, plus newsoft presto!
" link:  ultimate collection of google related mac apps 27" imac fans running full speed after smc update macfixit's joe aimonetti reports: "users have experienced an issue where the fans in their late-2009  27-inch imacs run at full speed after installing the smc firmware update 1.0.
this type of cd is  what most people will want to use.
additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks and are hereby acknowledged.
it's like spotlight for snippets, only much faster.
low end mac is an independent publication and has not been authorized, sponsored, or otherwise approved by apple inc.
home | deals | tech specs | articles | news | groups | software | support |news feed | #lowendmac compiled by charles moore and edited by dan knight - 2010.05.10 short link: http://bit.ly/a688ra macbook, powerbook, ibook, and other portable computing is covered in the 'book review.
however, in the past year mac, general tech, and mainstream media have begun to hype a growing competition between google and apple.
"something is changing over the corporate headquarters at one infinity  loop to be sure, but what the end game is is known only to the company  executives.
link: owc mercury on-the-go pro pr: small mobile scanner helps users reduce their paper regeneration by digitizing paper documents and sharing them electronically visioneer, a specialist in intelligent document imaging solutions, today announced the strobe 400, a new duplex color scanner designed for busy people who need a fast and reliable scanning solution that can be used anywhere.
is it because google is pushing it  hard through various channels?
owc mercury on-the-go solutions require no external power; they reliably bus power via a single port - no y-cables or dual ports required!
if you have a non-64-bit processor made by amd, or if you  need full support for 32-bit code, use the intel x86 images instead.
link: ubuntu 10.04: never a better time to switch products & services owc mercury on-the-go prices are falling pr: just when you thought the deals on our owc mercury on-the-go pro  drive line were as good as you could get, they drop like an errant meteor.
other great features: full retail versions of prosoft databackup iii for os x (a $59.95 retail value) and novastor novabackup for windows (a $49.95 retail value).
"just to be thorough, let's start out the list with the official google apps that you're probably already familiar with.
"this means over the past year, as a self proclaimed apple fan boy, i  have begun to wonder if i will have to choose sides between apple and  google...." link: am i no longer
the live image allows you to try ubuntu netbook edition without changing  your computer at all, and at your option to install it permanently later.
letters may be edited for length, context, and to matchhouse style.
looking  at the session list, one could argue that this year's wwdc is an iphone os  developers conference, not an apple developers conference.
most are free downloads but there are a few that you'll have to purchase.
various stories have already been  written about this (links at the bottom).
turning to browsers, internet explorer is still losing ground, falling below 60%, and firefox is up marginally, edging closer to one-quarter of the browser market.
but apple is not abandoning the mac platform.
" link: has apple abandoned the mac? loop insight's jim dalrymple reports: "in announcing the dates for its worldwide developers conference on wednesday, apple upset some of its macintosh developers.
"when you start using a text expander, you typically set up five or ten abbreviations for the most frequently typed text snippets like your name, your address, the current date, your email address, and similar things.
hell, apple had members of google sitting on apple's board.
you choose good mnemonics and use them a lot.
for apple fan boys like myself google seemed a natural extension to the apple culture.
alternate install cd the alternate install cd allows you to perform certain specialist  installations of ubuntu.
over the time, however, you add more and more snippets, and you soon end up with forgetting the abbreviations that you defined.
"while apple was taking on microsoft another tech giant, google, was  growing.
ipad, ipod, iphone, and apple tv news is covered in the ios news review.
he suggests that school it departments should seriously consider ubuntu instead  of (or in addition to) windows 7, mac os x, and various server upgrades  when updating their systems over the summer break, noting that there are  probably plenty of places where the latest and greatest (and it really is  great) release from canonical can save you money and hassle in the long run.
this number is for advertising only.
in browser space, internet explorer is still losing ground, falling below 60%, and firefox is up marginally, edging closer to one-quarter of the browser market, with chrome, again the biggest gainer in april.
" razer offers several options for the mac gaming community, providing full mac support for the razer naga, the world's best selling mmo gaming mouse, as well as the razer deathadder, a cult favorite among the right-handed gaming community.
a document scanner is therefore essential to first digitize paper records into electronic files that can be securely and accurately stored, transmitted and retrieved.
here's the operating system total market share rundown of the significant players for april 2010 (march '10 figures in parentheses) showing the change during the past month, with windows slipping a bit more, but the mac os losing share too.
entire low end mac website copyright ©1997-2012 bycobweb publishing, inc. unless otherwise noted.
"below is a huge list of both official google and third party mac  applications, desktop widgets and plugins.
system requirements: typinator 4 requires mac os x 10.4 or newer.
it incorporates visioneer onetouch with kofax vrs technology to create perfect images from imperfect originals by which users can scan, file and store all of their documents, plastic id cards, checks, articles, brochures and business cards.
"in cases where this happens, it is most likely the result of the smc update not being applied properly...." link: 27-inch imac fans running full speed after smc update pr: linux distro canonical has released ubuntu 10.04 lts (lucid lynx) in desktop, server and netbook editions.
link: ubuntu 10.04: never a better time to switch pr: just when you thought the deals on our owc mercury on-the-go pro drive line were as good as you could get, they drop like an errant meteor.
but apple seems to be giving the  cold shoulder to its longtime mainstay business: the mac....
choose this if you are at all unsure.
this  live image is optimized for netbooks with screens up to 10".
"the strobe 400 is a great, low cost solution for anyone looking to reduce the amount of paper in their life and visioneer will plant a tree on behalf of every customer who registers a new scanner through our partnership with the arbor day foundation."
the ubuntu 10.04 netbook  edition brings all the advantages of ubuntu to your mini-netbook - optimised  for smaller screens, ubuntu 10.04 is distributed on four types of images: desktop cd the desktop cd allows you to try ubuntu without changing your computer at  all, and at your option to install it permanently later.
browser market share computerworld blogger mitch wagner says: "apple announced the dates of its annual worldwide developers conference.
macsurfer cult of mac shrine of apple macintouch myapplemenu infomac the mac observer accelerate your mac retromaccast pb central macwindows the vintage mac museum deal brothers dealmac mac2sell mac driver museum jag's house system 6 heaven system 7 today the pickle's low-end mac faq amazon.com the itunes store pc connection express gainsaver parallels desktop for mac ebay all of our advertising is handled by backbeat media.
for apple fan boys like myself google seemed a natural extension to  the apple culture.
it will not install a graphical user interface.
also noteworthy was the inclusion of ubuntu enterprise cloud (uec) which enabled organizations to deploy a private computing cloud in their own data center.
for business users, typinator leads to a layer of operational consistency and productivity across heterogeneous applications.
traveling professionals - road warriors looking to maximize productivity can quickly capture the day's contracts, business cards, briefing papers, and expense receipts.
all prices are in us dollars unless otherwise noted.
typinator 4 is a recommended update for everyone running on mac os x 10.6 (snow leopard).
this type of cd is what most people will want to use.
"the black chrome mirror finish of the razer abyssus mirror special edition adds a certain stylistic sensibility to the desktop," said robert "razerguy" krakoff, president, razer usa.
ubuntu's core  applications are all free and open source.
ultimate collection of google related mac apps appstorm's joshua johnson reports: "google is undisputedly one of the best providers of free  technological resources and applications on the planet.
now it's time for a call to action...." link: a call to action on those mac os-less apple design awards zdnet blogger garett rogers says: "are your parents using chrome yet?
though they tend to favor pcs with earlier releases of new software, eventually they get around to throwing mac users some great apps as well.
we don't collect personal information unless you explicitly provide it.
i embraced gmail, gchat, google search and the other  products of google labs.
last year's ubuntu 9.04 release included the ubuntu netbook remix (unr) designed for small screened netbook devices.
there are two images available, each for a different type of computer: the server install cd allows you to install ubuntu permanently on a computer for use as a server.
not only are these great portable drives at great prices, but these drives also qualify for the prosoft drive genius special offer.
link: ubuntu's lucid lynx: a (free) mactastic experience zdnet education blogger christopher dawson says he's been using the betas of ubuntu 10.04, the final releases of which launched last week, in both desktop and server environments for a while, and has been incredibly pleased.
typinator is a powerful, yet elegantly simple solution that works across all applications.
this live cd is optimized for netbooks with screens up to 10".
join us on facebook.
if not, why not?" link: those who know use chrome why is google's chrome getting so much attention?
available in usb 2.0, firewire 400 & usb 2.0, and firewire 800/400 & usb 2.0 varieties, owc mercury on-the-go portable solutions provide convenient, flexible storage at a competitive price.
there are two images available, each for a different type of computer: pc (intel x86) alternate install cd - for almost all pcs.
quicksearch can also be used for quickly opening and editing existing snippets.
64-bit pc (amd64) alternate install cd - choose this to take full  advantage of computers based on the amd64 or em64t architecture (e.g.,  athlon64, opteron, em64t xeon, core 2).
chrome is again the biggest gainer again in april among the major browsers, with safari gaining a hair, opera losing a bit of ground, and opera mini remaining the 6th place browser and gaining slightly.
you enter a search string, typinator pops up a list of matches, you select the one you want, and - boom - it appears in your document.
last year's ubuntu 9.04 release included the ubuntu netbook remix (unr)  designed for small screened netbook devices.
razer abyssus mirror special edition sells for: link: razer abyssus mirror pr: ergonis software has announced the release and immediate availability of typinator 4.0, a major leap forward in the evolution of text expanders.
is it because google is pushing it hard through various channels?
this live  cd is optimized for netbooks with screens up to 10".
this includes most  machines with intel/amd/etc. type processors and almost all computers that run  microsoft windows, as well as newer apple macintosh systems based on intel  processors.
for price quotes and advertising information, please contact at backbeat media (646-546-5194).
appstorm's joshua johnson reports: "google is undisputedly one of the best providers of free technological resources and applications on the planet.
64-bit pc (amd64) server install cd - choose this to take full advantage  of computers based on the amd64 or em64t architecture (e.g., athlon64, opteron,  em64t xeon, core 2).
whether scanning contracts, forms, receipts, photos, id cards, handwritten notes or virtually any document of varying size or complexity, the strobe 400 meets the changing needs of users in many paper-intensive markets.
the other mac blog's colum o' dwyer says: "for the past 9 years or so i have been an apple fan boy, running this website is the culmination of that fact.
" link:  steve jobs says apple is not de-emphasizing mac os x a call to action on those mac-less apple design awards macsimum news' dennis sellers says: "okay, i'm still hacked off that apple is only allowing iphone and  ipad apps in the 2010 apple design awards.
but apple is not  abandoning the mac platform.
email may be published at our discretion unless marked "not for publication"; email addresses will not be published without permission, and we will encrypt them in hopes of avoiding spammers.
it detects specific sequences of typed characters and automatically replaces them with text snippets, graphics, urls, dates and special characters.
"with typinator 4, we found a great way to overcome this phenomenon.
scanning is a highly effective green technology.
built to for performance,  reliability, and durability, mercury on-the-go models have been recognized with  top reviews and include 'very good', 'gear of the year', and editor's choice  award bestowments.
steve jobs: apple is not de-emphasizing mac os x loop insight's jim dalrymple reports: "in announcing the dates for its worldwide developers conference on  wednesday, apple upset some of its macintosh developers.
that said, chrome is the browser of  choice for a good chunk of people - but it's still limited to 'those who know'.
likely not, but they should be - it's secure enough for even for them.
if not, why not?" link: those who know use chrome zdnet's adrian kingsley-hughes observes that net applications' data for april is out, showing that google chrome is the only browser making any real usage gains, with safari and firefox only making tiny gains, while opera lost and internet explorer lost even more, and asks "why?" short answer: because it's a really great browser.
right out of the gate, these storage solutions are among the best values out there.
basic mac support is already available for the razer orochi, razer mamba and razer imperator, with further updates scheduled for later this year.
the on-the-go's shock absorbing design further protects the drive and your valuable data from external forces.
this allows you to actively use a huge number of text snippets without having to remember their abbreviations."
ubuntu's core applications are all free and open source.
or buy direct from strider software.
for technical users, typinator automates typing of code and the implementation of documentation standards.
available in usb 2.0, firewire 400 & usb 2.0, and firewire 800/400  & usb 2.0 varieties, owc mercury on-the-go portable solutions provide  convenient, flexible storage at a competitive price.
link: operating system market share by os link: operating system market share by os version link:
or maybe it's because of its minimalistic look and feel?
looking at the session list, one could argue that this year's wwdc is an iphone os developers conference, not an apple developers conference.
that's 60% off prosoft's retail price, and 50% off owc's lowest normal selling price.
typinator instantly displays a list of matching snippets.
it's secure enough for even for them.
"i'm very proud to say that at razer, we are committed to supporting both mac and pc gamers," said robert "razerguy" krakoff, president, razer usa.
"we are constantly working to increase driver support for mac with our existing razer products and have plans to release all of our new products with dedicated mac and pc drivers.
don't install parallels to play poker online!
we're seeing rumors that the next-generation iphone will be  announced and available at the june event.
you will need at  least 256 mb of ram to install from this cd.
please report errors to .
"the razer abyssus mirror is designed for gamers that prefer a slick glossy aesthetic finish.
priced at $299.99 us list price, the strobe 400 is available through online channel partners and major resellers.
the razer abyssus mirror features a glossy finish and is equipped with two large buttons tuned for maximum tactile feedback, as well as razer's signature hyperesponse™ technology.
powered by visioneer onetouch technology, users may scan to the "destination" of their choice by pressing a single button, eliminating multiple steps usually required to save scanned documents in popular file formats.
" editor's note: your editor would say all of the above, save for the last  two speculatives, plus the facts that its really fast, has a kick-ass, no-fuss  download manager, and generally hauls the mail.cm link:  why is google's chrome getting so much attention?
windows slipped a bit more in april, but the mac os lost share too, and all the other significant players gained or held their ground, and ipad already at 0.03%.
featuring a new look that some rate more attractive and up-to-date than snow leopard's, "lucid lynx's" new graphics card drivers and other consumer-oriented innovations front a linux-based operating system package containing all the essential productivity applications you need for free: a web browser, office suite, media apps, instant messaging and much more, and is being pitched as an open-source alternative to windows and office or mac os x and the iapps.
now it's time for a call to  action...." link:  a call to action on those mac os-less apple design awards those who know use chrome zdnet blogger garett rogers says: "are your parents using chrome yet?
instead of inventing and remembering hundreds of cryptic abbreviations, you just type a keyboard shortcut and enter a few characters.
the upgrade to typinator 4 is free for all customers who purchased typinator in the last 2 years.
"while apple was taking on microsoft another tech giant, google, was growing.
the ubuntu 10.04 netbook edition brings all the advantages of ubuntu to your mini-netbook - optimised for smaller screens, ubuntu 10.04 is distributed on four types of images: the desktop cd allows you to try ubuntu without changing your computer at all, and at your option to install it permanently later.
for more deals on current and discontinued 'books, see our 13" macbook and macbook pro, macbook air, 15" macbook pro, 17" macbook pro, 12" powerbook g4, 15" powerbook g4, 17" powerbook g4, titanium powerbook g4, ibook g4, powerbook g3, and ibook g3 deals.
mac os x 10.6 or newer is recommended.
share follow low end mac on twitter join low end mac on facebook typestyler 11 is now in the mac app store!!
i embraced gmail, gchat, google search and the other products of google labs.
the it track appears to be gone.
there are two images available, each for a different type of computer: pc (intel x86) desktop cd - for almost all pcs.
"while we may never become truly paperless, we believe you can have a 'less paper' office," said john capurso, vice president of marketing at visioneer.
"below is a huge list of both official google and third party mac applications, desktop widgets and plugins.
priced at $299.99, the strobe 400 is one of the most affordable "green" scanning solutions available for pc or mac.
poker mac will show you how to download and install a native mac poker andmac casino applications in minutes.
you will need  at least 256 mb of ram to install from this image.
"something is changing over the corporate headquarters at one infinity loop to be sure, but what the end game is is known only to the company executives.
the new quicksearch feature lets you define a hot key to bring up a search field.
other great features:
banking - the check clearing for the 21st century act (check 21) allows banks to replace original paper checks with "substitute checks" that are scanned digital copies of the originals.
gilbertson reports that ubuntu founder mark shuttleworth wants ubuntu to  beat mac os x on features and interface polish, and while lucid lynx still  has some rough edges, this release is a huge leap for ui design in linux and  puts ubuntu well on its way to shuttleworth's goal with an array of new  applications, features, and services that make ubuntu seem more like a  consumer-friendly operating system (like os x) rather than the linux of  the command line loving past.
there are two images available, each for a different type of computer: pc (intel x86) server install cd - for almost all pcs.
pick the one that you want, and it appears in your document right away.
in case you hadn't noticed, when the last update to the macbook pros happened, there were some major changes made to the product line.
we allow and encourage links to any public page as long as the linked page does not appear within a frame that prevents bookmarking it.
a full list of available files, including bittorrent files, can be found at: http://releases.ubuntu.com/lucid/ editor's note: for a hands-on review, see a mac user tries out ubuntu 10.04  lucid lynx.
zdnet's adrian kingsley-hughes observes that net applications' data for  april is out, showing that google chrome is the only browser making any real  usage gains, with safari and firefox only making tiny gains, while opera lost  and internet explorer lost even more, and asks "why?" short answer: because it's a really great browser.
the other mac blog's colum o' dwyer says: "for the past 9 years or so i have been an apple fan boy, running this  website is the culmination of that fact.
there is one image available: pc (intel x86) netbook live cd - for almost all pcs.
this includes  most machines with intel/amd/etc. type processors and almost all computers that  run microsoft windows, as well as newer apple macintosh systems based on intel  processors.
" the razer abyssus mirror special edition was created specifically for gamers that demand the utmost in form and functionality, as well as reliability under the most intense gameplay conditions.
netbook live cd the live cd allows you to try ubuntu netbook edition without changing your  computer at all, and at your option to install it permanently later.
for the majority of those 9 years apple was taking on microsoft and so i swore of the windows os and begrudgingly used microsoft office for mac until iwork 09 was released.
underneath, razer has placed two easily accessible mechanical switches - one on-the-fly dpi switch giving the user their choice of 450, 1800, or 3500 dpi and one polling rate switch allowing instant adjustment from a standard 125 hz to 1000 hz ultrapolling.
all of these applications are free, ready to download, and possess the high quality you'd expect from google.
at the game developers conference at san francisco in march, razer announced an effort to increase support for mac users by issuing driver support for all upcoming razer products, including the razer starcraft ii peripheral suite.
however, in the past year mac, general tech, and mainstream media have  begun to hype a growing competition between google and apple.
the on-the-go's shock absorbing design further  protects the drive and your valuable data from external forces.
(translation: mac os x 10.7 is not going to be announced this year.)
any business that handles paper can benefit from using a scanner.
it also serves as the ideal complement to other reflective peripherals, such as the razer lycosa™ mirror special edition keyboard.
"is it that's a lightweight browser, or the fact that it's pretty secure?
this enables your documents to be scanned with the correct settings for resolution, color, cropping, file format and then delivered to virtually any application, folder or device - all at the touch of a button.
know that google chrome is extremely fast, secure, and out  of your face.
typinator 4 introduces a new feature called "quicksearch" that takes usage and management of text snippets to the next level.
all of our solutions utilize the best qualified hard drive mechanisms for optimum performance and reliability.
you will need at least 256 mb of ram to install from this image.
server install cd the server install cd allows you to install ubuntu permanently on a  computer for use as a server.