there are a bunch more factors you can consider (for example, maybe you're not planning to give sony any more money).
we also have several sony laptops that are a couple months older that have i7's.
when our 2004-era windows xp laptop,  which was used primarily by my wife, died last summer, i got myself a new  macbook pro and she inherited my still serviceable 2008 macbook.
i bought a new one recently and opted for 64 bit and as much ram as i could get.. it really is fast!
parent share twitter facebook
what are her requirements?
newegg had a lenovo laptop which met all those requirements for ~$475.
some older mac applications with text-based interfaces treat return as end-of-line and enter as end-of-file.
my advice would be to go to a microsoft store, a brick and mortar one if there's such a thing around where you live, or http://store.microsoft.com otherwise.
having been in an academic tech support job for a bunch of years (and an equally long-term relationship) and having shepherded though thousands of purchases and then supported those devices, i've found giving the person who'll actually be using a thing (laptop, printer, gps, phone, &c.) a set of known-good options and letting them decide is a great practice.
i  don't have an ideological problem with this — it'd be her computer, and  we've got a bit of money stashed away to pay for it.
share twitter facebook i second this.
this is my suggestion as well.
the items you want to check: * how solid is the chassis?
the rest of the specs are irrelevant as my wife doesn't need anything except firefox, word, and excel.
there was no usual bullshit required script i had to run through with the person on the phone.
i think right now, the choice is between a low/medium spec windows 7 32 bit laptop and a high-spec windows 7 64 bit laptop.
share twitter facebook
with the advent of osx, the enter key has become less important, and has almost become a second return, but it used to function as a kind of yeah, that's probably the best answer of all.
um, you do realize that lcds only do one resolution, right?
or you can use consumer reports if you find the reviews "bewildering".
keyboards: one of the main things about pc keyboards is the ctrl vs.
at this point, it's as cheap as it will get for your model.
" i'm sorry, i thought you said a xp laptop.
i get this all the time from my family/relatives.
if you are a coder - write code on that keyboard.
but the important thing about lenovo wasn't the hardware.
doubt is a pain too lonely to know that faith is his twin brother.
i explained the problem and what i had done to test it.
on business models, you can just press down at the top of the screen and it won't flex, and it will close properly.
don't just assume you will get used to it because it is very very odd.
when at a desk, external display... this is my biggest pet peeve with laptop sellers.
yeah, it won't do gaming very well, but it'll do anything a new $500 windows can do - and for only the cost of windows itself.
if anyone else tried it, she'd be offended, and rightly so.
if hardware quality, good engineering, and support/warranty service are what is important to you, thinkpads (at least the t, x, and w series) are still untouchable (even by apple).
i do find it funny that the anti-apple and anti-ms posters are just as zealous in the promotion of linux.
but until we know what your wife wants a windows laptop for, it's pretty difficult to point you in any specific direction.
if she really only needs it for email and surfing, then pretty much anything will do the trick.
so you'll find that windows gets less battery than os-x, and also less than on a comparable non-apple laptop.
if they really want you to pick it for them they'll usually say so.
the only difference is that instead of relying on advertisements alone, you can peruse some of the extensive and exhaustive reviews of current laptops from various manufacturers that you can find online.
dell latitudes are also solid machines in my experience and i have heard good things about hp's elite book line but lack first hand experience.
or spend $600 every 4-6 years.
often  models that you find in electronics or office supply stores that seem promising  in terms of form factor are exclusive to those stores and can't be found  online.
windows 7 needs minimum of 4, which quickly gets used up with all the i know how you feel.
if you had bought a $1200 laptop 4 years ago, you'd have a first-gen core2duo (merom), 1gb of ram, 802.11g whereas $600 was a first-gen (yonah) centrino, 1gb of ram, 802.11g.
i guess it is laptops we are talking about here, but for a lot of people, most of what they do can be done well with processors 4 years old or more.
my experience with laptops is this - if you really take it on the road a lot i have found that it is more likely to break before it becomes obsolete
the important thing was when it began shutting down unexpectedly and without warning after 30 minutes of heavy cpu usage (like when my wife was catching up on her shows on hulu).
it was surprising to find how many of the little things start adding up to fairly decent cost savings.
buy a ms notebook, complain about having to pay the windoze tax, install linux, configure several small but nonfunctioning items (buttons) for several hours, wonder why it doesn't go out of sleep/hibernation smoothly, rave how awesome linux is while having windows booted so you can play that one game you like or use that one piece software that doesn't run on wine? /jkparent
look at the non-crap bundled software as well, you might be surprised.
furthermore, i'm troubled that you continue to speak to her about how she feels about the macbook.
is that system builder licenses aren't transferable.
but trying to pick one out  is my job, and i find the the whole process bewildering.
having a low power chipset was important to me, especially after suffering through a lap burning macbook pro, and a similarly hot, noisy, and unreliable "high performance" laptop i was fortunate enough to win fr
what, debunk some ridiculous mistakes?!
but after  about six months, she hasn't gotten used to it, and wants a windows machine.
i have one that is 5 years old that is still good for basic tasks.
more comments full  abbreviated  hidden
get an extended warranty - they're not so much more likely to fail, as bl@@dy expensive to fix when they do.
btw, you might want to make sure she's comfortable with windows 7, too.
i have one and never use it - i like the three-button layout, numeric keypad, screen, performance, and trackpointer + touchpad on the precision)share twitter facebook but trying to pick one out is my job, and i find the the whole process bewildering.
this comes off as some fanboy trying to justify some apple product that he's already purchased.
if you travel through a major airport, and watch the business people go through security, you will see a ton of thinkpads.
in the l500 or l650 ranges.
parent share twitter facebook then please explain: in implementation (on either platform), what is the functional difference between enter and return?
maybe i'm misunderstanding something, but i don't think any of those cpus are hard to find in a laptop.
you can still hold 2 fingers down on the pad and click on the button for a 'right-click.'
it looks like the windows7.digitalriver.com is over, but they link to here: http://www.microsoft.com/student/en/us/office/default.aspx you can get the windows 7 upgrade for $80 just buy the oem version.
actually, it's exactly like they left the feature out of the hardware.
share twitter facebook ...
how would slashdotters go about picking a solid, basic laptop for web  surfing and document editing that won't be obsolete in two years?
then there is no intel inside sticker, no windows logo on the keyboard.
every of the 5 makers (not models)
i have been trying to find a cheap version of windows 7 for a while.
also, toshiba's extended warranty means courier pick-up and return.
the same software you run today will work just fine in 2 years, and will take care of any web/office task you could possibly conceive of.
it's not waste if you can find a use for it!share twitter facebook spending $600 every 2 years gets you a lot further than spending $1200 every 4 years.
are you going to hate the tedium of the four-hour project of upgrading the processor and hard drives, or will it be a 15 minute task?
(i have the m6400, which is the m6500's predecessor, and i love it - desktop chipset, rgb-led backlit display, it's built like a tank, and is uber-serviceable so easy to upgrade and maintain) or if you don't want to spend that much on a notebook, consider the latitude line, which generally use the same chassis as the precision line (so they are also built like tanks) but with mobile chipsets and tend to be slightly lighter.
many multiples what the oems pay.
(minus the used expensive parts i had on the shelf).
i can tell that everyone suggesting you just put windows on the mac has never been married, or probably had a lt girlfriend
dell - most of the affordable ones are pretty cheaply made - we got a deal on a master program i was in where all the students got them, in the end i offered mine up as parts help other keep theirs running - the final straw on mine was when the internal voltage regulator literally went up in smok > "... that won't be obsolete in two years?
this may come as a shock to some, but the stock mac might not even be suitable for what you want to do with it.
i consider his computer to be a fire hazard and he is out of work.
but yeah, if there exists a lightweight laptop with high resolution, go for it.
they're supposed to move the input cursor to the beginning and end of the current line of input, not... whatever it is they do under os x – i've never managed to figure out exactly what that is.
spending $600 every 2 years gets you a lot further than spending $1200 every 4 years.
the hp elitebook (8530p)
however they are designed like oem licenses that dell et al sell which means that they are tied to that system, which in this case means a motherboard.
in fact, the author uses the term "bewildered" or "bewildering" at least three times in one paragraph.
if she's on the go - get a screen that is readable but smaller to extend out battery life.
secondly, care to point it out as all i can see is you having a big cry over keyboards which has nothing to do with this thread.
a second mouse button is really easy to implement in hardware, and so is a third or fourth for that matter.
my advice for the op, let the wife choose.
watch digital river for deals for students.
apple gets you into the habit of spending a whole heck of a lot of money for a really nice machine, i'm trying to suggest that in the windows world, buying less laptop more often nets you more bang for your buck over time.
if they had to learn a new system, why stick with windows?
there are people for whom spending more makes sense: graphic designers need a color-accurate ips lcd, road-warriors need something super portable, gamers need the latest mobile video cards.
one huge annoyance is the cursor clicking to some random spot when your palm touches it while you're typing an essay.
it's not a question about how to use the hardware ("you're holding it wrong"), it's whether or not the hardware even works for what you need it
it arrived at their facility in texas on the 15th.
parent share twitter facebook the downside of this is the effort you need to go to every two years, to transfer all your files and reinstall all your applications.
the op has a 2008 macbook, which *does* have a right mouse button - it features the multitouch trackpad.
you'll come out several hundred dollars ahead.
i disable the touch-to-click on trackpads, because i'll be typing and some part of one of my hands will hit the trackpad and the cursor jumps somewhere or clicks a button or something.
ask slashdot: how do you choose a windows laptop? 898 posted by  samzenpus on sunday march 27 2011, @06:11pm from the throw-a-dart dept.
meanwhile, 2 years ago $600 got you a arrandale i3, 3gb of ram and a far better intel gma (one that can accelerate h264@1080p) with 802.11n and +50% battery life.
the dell did not make it three months before it had to be serviced.
i have always used dell laptops or ones provided by work (hp).
however if you get a new computer later and want to transfer it, no deal, it is tied to the computer you put it on.
as a mac is basically a reasonably well specified pc in a nice case for fifty per cent more money, it will run windows better than a low end pc.
either buy the laptop with it installed or prepare to shop for an upgrade to at least 8gb.
" 100 of 898 comments loaded twitter  facebook portables hardware windows mysql.com
the redundancy will be very reduced and all the non-competitive models will be filtered out.
i have from work is a very solid machine.
jfruhlinger writes "i'm a mac guy.
customer service limits you to dell, hp, and to a lesser extent, lenovo, long-term (post-warranty) parts availability limits you to dell and hp, and to a lesser extent, lenovo.
it would still be marked with a refurb sku but would be in perfect, as-new condition, and you can save up to $3k on the notebook like i did.
why all those excess keys, anyway?parent share twitter facebook ...so that guys like you don't know the difference.
as with any group, there is a group-think that doesn't like apple products, for a variety of reasons.
actually it's about the worst answer.
anything lower than that is the result of pixel doubling and the resolution that's listed is typically the native resolution.
people often scour the outlet and flip them on feebay and at computer fairs.
from time to time if you upgrade too quickly it will refuse to activate, but if you let it set for a period of time it'll install just fine.
first question to ask yourself is: what does your wife want to do with her windows laptop?
another option to save money is to call the dell outlet and see if they have the model you want as an "open box" return.
it didn't damage it at all but for a consumer chassis i would have had to buy a whole new screen/lid/hinge assembly * how serviceable is it?
a macbook makes a great windows laptop, and since you already have it it'll be more cost effective to just buy a copy of windows.
hacked with sql injection submission: ask slashdot: how do you choose a windows laptop?
other than that, good internal hardware hardware is very cheap and similar among brands (caveats being intel chips tend to run a bit cooler for the same performance vs. amd, and if you care about discrete video go for one that has that, otherwise ram and hard drives are easily accessible/upgradeable, but i'm sure other threads are covering that).
there may be more comments in this discussion.
it still has multitouch etc, but has funny issues like right-click taps requiring 3 fingers instead of 2.
parent share twitter facebook see which keyboards/track pads/screen/etc she prefers.
finally, for those that suggest i'm creating a bunch of unnecessary waste (leaving aside that i'm getting tangible utility out of shorter cycle here), every one of my old laptops has been dbaned and sent over to freegeek (where i volunteer) to further their service.
that only works if you don't despise apple keyboards.
figure the specs out a head of time.
decided if amd or intel is a priority.
when it came time to buy my kid a laptop for college, we looked at the deals the school had (a major university) and they had mac, dell, and lenovo.
a computer can always do serviceably well exactly what it could do when it was new.
these days, any intel i3/i5 processor and 3-4gb of ram will crush light-office-type tasks.
apple's product  differentiation is great at defeatingthe paradox of choice — you have a  few base models, the difference between which is quite obvious, and you can  customize each.
for users aspiring to be more advanced, i tell them not to copy anything directly but to sync it all with whatever t i would suggest a thinkpad t series or x series as her primary machine.
dunno where you're doing your shopping.
a good example of this are those suggesting that you use some sort of virtual machine to run windows software.
do as the parent sugests, install windows seven (not vista, and certainly not xp) in the laptop, but upgrade memory (check the manual to see the max ammount of ram supported, and check the forums to see if it can take a tad more ), change the hdd (here faster rpm or sdd is the name of the game), and buy a new (non apple, t i am partial o hp computers.
parent share twitter facebook also, if she has only used xp, she my find windows 7 as confounding as mac os x. bootcamp it with a copy of w7, but don't activate it until she is confidant she can adapt to w7.
don't buy a consumer-class laptop.
the ones that run windows have these stickers on them that say so.
if you like keyboard hotkeys, best advice is to find one with the ctrl keys taking the spotlight.
parent share twitter facebook not to mention that apple laptops have that stupid track pad with only one button.
the 420, 520, 220 series are quite modern but still rolling out.
i cant recommend specific models, rather specific brands/product lines.
unless every review you read for the lappy you're about to get has no qualms about keyboard or touchpad, definitely try to poke around, maybe play solitaire to test out the tap-click-hold-drag functionality, and try typing a couple paragraphs in a word document to make sure the cursor doesn't go ouija board on you.
unless something has changed recently, that's not entirely true.
to send you a new wife.
have that happen a couple times and your document gets swiss cheesed with sentence fragments.
for a little less money you can get the yesteryear model which offer more choices of features.
the windows world seems totally different.
obviously people do navigate this process, but i'm just feeling out of  my depth.
even once i've  settled on a vendor for a windows laptop (something i haven't done yet), each  seems to have a bewildering array of product lines with similar specs.
more login ask slashdot: how do you choose a windows laptop?
same with builtin intel video or nvidia / ati.
what's more, the commodification of the laptop means you have so much less at stake regarding breakage.
i'm betting that if you google "windows laptops reviews 2011" you'll get exactly what you need.
i've been looking at dell and lenovo and all i want is a list of their highest resolution laptops.
just install windows on the mac?
the wife does not like it.
sure, it is a few more bucks up front, but after a couple years the consumer grade laptops are junk, but the commercial ones are still kicking.
with the exception of some flash games, nothing accessible via browser or email client is going to require much in the way of processor power.
and in the linux world, the rate of bloat increase is slower than that of the windows world, since features are added because they are cool and not to make your existing machine feel slow so that you want to upgrade.
" think about this for a second - you're looking for something that does the most basic, routine tasks out there.
it is 100% fine to use them on systems you do yourself, that's why newegg sells them.
for this precise reason, it's does double duty as a good time to prod users into thinking about their backup solution -- as backing up and migrating to a new machine share a common theme of enumerating what constitutes important data.
other than that, you are correct that it has no numpad.
try using the thing first.
i know for many laptops i've purchased the ctrl and fn key are swapped, and getting to do anything like copy/paste ctrl + c, ctrl
that's more or less what you are paying for with retail windows is a "transfer tax" if you like, or having the license be like a book.
on the 16th fedex knocked at our door with the repaired laptop.
after a couple of months she decided it was just too small and underpowered for her and she wanted something else.
i was able to pick up a copy of windows 7 pro x64 for $30 via digital river.
on consumer models if you are not careful opening and closing the screen by grasping it at the sides near the hinges you will flex and eventually break the frame.
windows is often better on a mac than a pc.
no new comments can be posted.
sigh, you didn't get that i was suggesting brands where the op could look, rather then making a decision on what laptop he should get.
confucius say: choosing windows laptop easy!
while it remains unopened, pc enthusiast vendors are just selling the package
otherwise you have to call ms for them to clear the previous install.
actually i consider it an upside (although yes, daunting) because it forces the user to make a distinction between the data and the medium in which it is stored.
while it would have only cost $20 to buy a multi-core processor i actually opted to just unlock a sempron.
these days, spending more than $500 on a laptop is pointless unless you use it for games, or as a fullblown desktop replacement (video editing, etc).
also, one thing that hasn't been brought up yet (that i've seen) is the misbehaving home and end keys.
agreed with that advice - mac laptops are great, but try the keyboard on something real.
just run windows on it.
we picked it up and it arrived a few days later.
an oem disc which comes bundled with a computer frequently has 2 keys available, one is on the disc and is valid for any number of computers as a part of the oem computers and the one which is stuck to the side for that particular computer.
on my list of craptops that are not well made and break easily: 1.
comas have a purpose.
i can't comment on lenovo's consumer-focused ideapad line, but the thinkpad line is top notch.
if you are an accountant, type numbers on it.
if i tried to get my wife to pick *anything* merely by looking at a handful of pictures that of items i had selected, she'd have a good laugh (because she knows me).
samsung galaxy ad misleads with fake interviews this discussion  has been archived.
i compared the build quality to my personally-owned t61 thinkpad, and thought to myself "this dell is junk".
we only had a few requirements: built in mic and webcam (skype with the grandparents), windows, and a 10-key pad.
so if she is happy with the virtual second button and no middle button, just install windows on the mac (see first paragraph above).
and, you could always boot camp windows onto the mac book provided it is an intel processor.
i actually dropped my m6400 at a customer site, and it fell 3' to the tiled-covered concrete floor.
you said you don't want something that's obsolete in 2 years, but i kind of wonder why?
without javascript enabled, you might want toturn on classic discussion system in your preferences instead.
it's like saying, "i'm leaving all of this free crack here.... for free.... to anyone" in a room with a crackhead.
they could have 20 of the exact config you want on hand today, and zero tomorrow, and three the next day.
we are not responsible for them in any way.
"i can tell that everyone suggesting you just put windows on the mac has never been married, or probably had a lt girlfriend
for example, a salesperson told me a core i3 processor is only good for doing one thing at a time.
parent share twitter facebook window is fucking expensive stand alone.
not sure why you see manipulation in this suggestion.
i've been using my three year old t61 for the duration, and i cannot imagine why the three year old $1000 thinkpad is superior in almost every way to the brand new $1000 dell laptop.
a windows license is considerably less than $200 here [newegg.com].
sell the macbook and buy a toshiba or hp.
i said the op should let his wife pick the model, not knowing what specifics the wife would want (screen size et al)
for the rest of everyone, get a cheapo laptop, beat the crap out of it and then replace it.
but it'd certainly be worth remaining aware of any issues - making your windows experience superb and smooth is hardly apple's priority so bugs go on for some time.
parent share twitter facebook i'm no grammar fanatic, but i just couldn't pass up such an opportunity.
things like cpu speed, disk size, memory size & gpu family are all things that have to be decided on even if you choose the allegedly easier route of buying a mac.
i think it is sad that marketing keeps all their materials and just updates the number.
in spreadsheets, return accepts the value entered and moves focus down one line while enter accepts the value entered without moving focus.
just a little giggle.
so you install it, and life is good.
and it doesn't look too fancy, which i like.
buy a commercial strength unit.
hands on with the units to get a feel of the keyboard, resolution size, weight and so on.
real coders use a real coder's keyboard [wordpress.com]!
here's the rundown: get your preferences in order: screen size, discrete graphics (must/may/must-not), battery life (min) and then just browse fatwallet's laptop section or slickdeals until something that matches comes up.
i built a reaaaallly cheap pc for a friend.
i just built a desktop based on a core i3 and it is significantly faster than what it replaced and multitasks just fine.
there's absolutely nothing wrong with the hardware and in general windows is often better on a mac than a pc.
but..." don't know what kind of women you are dating, but your impression of women as irrational things that should be manipulated so as not to blame you in the future sounds awful.
users who select their own i've been married for 10 years to a wonderful woman that i'd never call "illogical", in fact her reasoning is often clearer than most anyone else i know.
set up a bootcamp partition (apps > utils > boot camp assistant) and give it the lion's share of the disk if it's going to be her primary os and then install.
they come that way out of the box.
women aren't rational creatures.
the hw is pretty much ok, but the configured options of the era show their age.
but i say that only because i *never* use it without an external keyboard.
i love the keyboard, but the trackpad is crippled under windows.
once it concur, for the stated use, one step up from a netbook should do the job for years to come.
it should easily still be good enough.
but, i still prefer to do my real work on my windows xp workstation..
i'm not saying that is a big deal, just that it is something to know and recognize.
i bought my last windows 7 laptop based on power consumption and computing power-
there are more sites like that as well.
they e-mailed us the instructions on how to ship it back
you can only have it on one thing, but you are free to change what that thing is.
they have little green or black dots for things like reliability, and features and so forth.
granted, i do believe that i3, i5 and i7 laptops are hard to find outside of apple at the moment, but wait a month.
i'm a good friend, but i'm not a great friend.
share twitter facebook i would first suggest dual booting or virtualizing windows on the mac.
it's just a pity that sony makes such good laptops, not so many other makers that build a product that solid alas, they've all put some amount of crap into it to make it cost less than an apple.
but if the wife wants something, a half arsed solution like slapping windows on top of it wont help, in fact it will make things a lot worse.
i hasten to mention that i'm not saying your attitude is wrong, but i want to share a different point of view.
then buy whatever specs you need on that model.
the keyboard is very small, compared to the size of the laptop here is why: t you wuss...
my dell for work is almost a year old and has an i7.
and when you buy from them, you get your laptop with a custom system install without the brand bloat/crapware, which enhances the out-of-the-box experience considerably.
two finger tap to right click - osx makes just as much use of context menus as windows does, so it's not like they left the feature out of the hardware.
my kid now is using a lenovo t510 with an i5 and windows 7.
maybe not a big deal for you (or for me: it takes 10 minutes of setup and 2 hours of waiting), but for a novice computer user it's quite daunting.
boot camp, parallels, and virtualbox are all good solutions.
my next notebook will most likely be another precision mobile workstation (but will check out lenovo again), and my next desktop an imac (why no macbook pro?
let me get this straight: you say you're a "mac guy" and you need to buy a laptop that will run windows and you find the process "bewildering".
if your wife or you happen to teach or go to a school, you might be able to get it for free from the school, or at a steep discount.
maybe one of these days everyone will just let everyone else buy what the heck they want.
in my experience, find a machine with a decent screen resolution and you've found something less portable than a bag of lead bricks...
i love not caring about cases, biking with laptop in a backpack, traveling around with it, not investing in a laptop-lock-cable, not caring if my nephew spills apple-juice all over it (the keyboard tray got most of it, the laptop lived on).
yeah, that's probably the best answer of all.
and it won't be obsolete in 2 years.
if all she wants is windows xp, you might skip the stores and start looking other places (ebay, craigslist).share twitter facebook they're almost at the point of being disposable, which kind of bothers you don't need a new machine and protect against obsolescence if you are just doing email and web surfing.
you can usually tell the difference by looking for a docking connector.
widescreen, 10-key, mic but a bit of a lame webcam.
unless you're 1) on windows and 2) like saving time.
you used to be able to buy xp oem disks from certain builders but i can't even do that anymore.
also, i might say "make it dual boot" so that she has something to fall back on when her machine gets trashed and/or unusable... as we all know it will.
the battery will be almost gone and there will likely be other hw issues developing.
here's another thought.
that's right, the dells did not even make it through a semester.
on top of that, i have an ideapad g-560 with a touchpad so insensitive slash oversensitive at exactly the wrong times you'd think it was steam driven.
but yea, install on the 2008.
whatever you do, don't skimp on ram.
her friends' dell machines have all had to be serviced in the first semester.
you'll be pleased with the prices.
a lot of xp-mac switches happened because xp-vista was an infuriating learning curve.
a 5 year old laptop would suffice.
meaning that it's not going to work correctly in windows without extra work.
even microsoft themselves can't agree on whether it's acceptable or not (http://www.zdnet.com/blog/bott/is-it-ok-to-use-oem-windows-on-your-own-pc-dont-ask-microsoft/1561) but as far as i'm concerned after interpreting the license as best as i could (ianal etc), it's absolutely fine.
how would slashdotters go about picking a solid, basic laptop for web surfing and document editing that won't be obsolete in two years?
i have a mbp 13" unibody.
next up, i want to share a contrary attitude that many of us in the non-apple community feel.
i don't know how tough it is - i've never dropped it - but it does seem as though it's built really well.
* how easily can you get at the heat sinks to clean out the inevitable dust and lint?
you aren't investing enough to make spending tons of hours on research pay off.
the crap about selling it with a fully assembled system is for when the eula takes effect: which is when it's been opened.
at the time they had several choices for laptops with all three of the processors you mentioned.
so you got 2 years of a slightly faster laptop in exchange for 2 years with a much inferior one all at the same price.
i have even hunted down some wholesalers, and i can't seem to find it for less than retail, unless i am part of some ultra special group.
+ v, ctrl + tab, ctrl + click, ctrl + whatever is a minor hand-cramp inducing pita.
the damn things are nearly indestructible.
ask a student to buy it for you.
good luck with your purchase.
if she needs massive storage or wants mirrored storage, look for a notebook with internal raid - like the dell precision m6500
will the screen hinges hold up?
later on, it'll just become rarer and most places will then put a premium on it.
i don't want to say that your statement confirms my belief about most mac users, but it's really not all that hard.
a windows license is around $200.
his wife will not like this.
i don't worry too much about the brand so long as i've heard of them before.
hi, the point is over here, you seemed to have missed it.
how accessible are the so-dimm slots?
ask slashdot: how do you choose a windows laptop?
i bought a macbook pro as a windows laptop several years ago and it has been a phenomenal computer.
you will find yourself using the ctrl key very often (less so than in a mac since right click is built in, but still); it's generally more ergonomically comfortable to use the leftmost edge of your left hand to hit the ctrl buttonif that's where it's located.
t i have touch-to-click disabled also.
and they're less expensive, too.
if the goal is to run windows, with a real two or three-button touch pad or trackpointer, i would look for a notebook which is solidly built, for which you can get decent customer service, and parts are available well out of warranty.
staples, best buy, fry's - what ever is cheap and has a decent comfortable keyboard for her.
it's a one-stop display of the best models for each niche and market segment.
when correcting someone's spelling and/or grammar, you are bound and determined to make at least one mistake, yourself.
build quality limits you to dell (latitude and precision lines only), hp, lenovo, and sony.
availability from the outlet can be spotty though - i had to call to get the configuration i wanted.
parent share twitter facebook i think that res is perfect for an 11.6" - extreme portability.
i haven't found any way to filter my searches this way.
that way the onus is on her to like it, having her make the decision reduces the likelihood that she'll turn around and blame you for any issues (as she is currently doing with the mac).
a 2008 macbook, even non-pro, is still a perfectly good windows system for what you ask.
you can get a pretty decent laptop with windows 7 for around $500.
the consumer class laptops don't have a dock, the commercial strength ones do.
the poster blatantly assume stuff just to disagree
lenovo will get my laptop business again and again until they break the trust level they created with that wonderful service exchange--arguably the best service i have ever received from any manufacturer in my 25 years of dealing with these things.
in my case, win+e and win+r get used multiple times per hour, win+l gets used every time i leave my desk, and win+pause is one of the first things i hit when i start work on someone else's computer.
then work from there.
pick about 5 different models that you know are good (dell latitude, lenovo thinkpad, asus and toshiba, wife will probably like the look of the asus) put some pictures into a document and let her pick which one she wants.
thus, i did everything i could to build a stable, but extremely inexpensive system.
these, though, cost $1000, so it will be cheaper to buy windows 7, home premium $200.
mice: not only do the designs vary by quite a large bit between manufacturers as far as hardware implementation--some that have one smooth metallic surface that only does tap response, some that have rough textured surfaces for tactile response, to thinkpads with a nipple and touchpad and about six different ways to click and doubleclick--but it's also important to keep in mind that the mice action will almost never feel as intuitive or as good as a mac.
at work they recently bought me a fancy-schmancy dell notebook.
you really didn't mention her needs in detail other than "it needs to run windows"
the battery has swollen, 2gb of ram is little nowadays, and a 5400rpm hdd is slow.
i purchased a dell netbook for my wife assuming that during her time at home it would be portable and easy for her to carry around.
i'm surprised you have not figured this out yet.
i needed a little more than what you state (compiles take 1 minute on a desktop, 2 on my chosen laptop and 5+ on a netbook...)
just like cheap tools are not worth the money, unless you plan to use them only once... cheap laptops are not worth the money, either.
once you have windows on there, the os x software disks that came with it (or the ones for your mbp) have all the necessary drivers that are set up via install wizard - just pop it in after windows boots for the first time.
parent share twitter facebook apple doesn't seem to have good acpi drivers for windows so it cannot manage power as effectively as it should.
find a machine with a decent screen and you'll find a decent laptop
windows 7 should be decently good on it, office 2010 (or openoffice/libreoffice) perfectly fine.
just because it is one of the slowest doesn't mean it is slow.
i contacted lenovo support.
share twitter facebook why on earth would you give your macbook pro to your dead wife?
the windows key is useless, no one really uses it.
you can even visit a microcenter or tiger direct in your area and let your wife look them over.
it isn't horrible, but it is noticeable.
download the service manuals of the model you are looking at.
i've used oem discs on upgraded computers many times and as long as you use the computer specific one on only one computer at a time you're fine.
"i can tell that everyone suggesting you just put windows on the mac has never been married, or probably had a lt girlfriend but..." don't know what kind of women you are dating, but your impression of women as irrational things that should be manipulated so as not to blame you in the future sounds awful.
archived discussion  load 500
* does it offer all the connectivity you need?
nickname: password:public terminal 100 of 898 comments loaded twitter facebookportables hardware windows nickname: password:public terminal the fine print: the following comments are owned by whoever posted them.
in my opinion, keyboard and touchpad characteristics are probably the most important factors in pc laptops.
if you've found someone who either matches your sad depiction of a woman or (more likely) allows you to believe you understand them because she wants him too.
then please explain: in implementation (on either platform), what is the functional difference between enter and return?
the laptop is 2.5 years old.
as a rule of thumb if you see it in a big box store stay away; the build quality is often compromised for cost, and the windows install
if you want a good general-purpose laptop, take a look at the t410 (which is on discount as it's being replaced) or the newer t420.parent share twitter facebook i will throw out my vote for thinkpads.
the hardware is assembled from various oem distributors, and depending on who they sourced their touchpad to and how good their driver development is, you will either get basic "scroll bars along edge of pad" functionality, or very poorly implemented pinch-zoom.
a bottom-of-the-barrel laptop these days ($3-400?) has about 1000x the power you need to surf the web and run ms office.
if she's mostly at home and plugged in to power - get a bigger screen.