either program lets you selectively turn off individual  extensions or groups of extensions at startup time so that you can try and  figure out what’s causing the problem.
(a partial boot can also be a symptom of a hardware-based scsi  problem, though, so check the"mac hardware troubleshooting tips"
in addition, don’t forget to check on any extensions you  have installed, particularly ones that function as drivers for any hardware  you’ve added to your mac.
so, the  trick is to find an amount that lets you work without getting out-of-memory  messages, but doesn't take more than necessary.
this can be very handy if you're working with large or complex documents because if the application doesn't have enough room to do its work, you may get an error message saying there isn't enough memory even if you have lots of ram installed and it's the only program running.
you can turn virtual memory on and off via the memory control panel.
you may also want to checkmacfixit, macintosh software & extension conflict troubleshooting, or other mac sites you see listed on mytroubleshooting resources page.
if the same problem occurs (or if your mac still can’t  boot), then you haven’t found the culprit and you’ll need to select a  new set and go through the process all over again.
if it does turn out to be an extension-related problem,  you’ll know you’ve found the problem when the mac makes it through  the startup phase and brings you to the desktop.
first, do a normal mac startup and when you reach the desktop, go up to the apple menu and select about this computer (or about this macintosh or whatever the message on your machine happens to be) to see a display of how much memory each application on your mac is currently using.
finally, the last drawback of this arrangement is that if you’re using  applications that can’t or don’t take advantage of the features  offered by certain extensions, you’re wasting precious mac memory.
by the way, in addition to turning off certain extensions to avoid conflicts, you can get more memory for your applications by turning off extensions that you aren't regularly using.
make note of how much the mac os, or system, is using.
in most instances you'll want it on, but  there are some older applications that won't work properly with it turned on,  so you should check your mac's settings and adjust them as necessary.
before i get into  what that means, let me tell you a little bit about how the mac os works.
the only time most mac users even become aware of extensions is during the  startup, when the little icons representing different extension files dance  across the bottom of your mac’s screen.
the article is a bit out of date, but you still may find it helpful if you want to find out about certain types of specific error codes.
however, it doesn't necessarily impact how  much memory each application has to use, nor does it automatically increase the  amount of memory allocated to each application as needed.
by placing these files into a special extensions folder inside the system folder, they are automatically loaded and run whenever the mac starts up.
most macs have at least 40 or 50 extensions and many have 100 or more.)
by the way, if you have only  one or two problematic documents, you can always just adjust the application's  memory allocations--which is what these numbers are called--right before you  work with them, and then change them as soon as you're done.
but it also defaults to the space key.
in some cases you may have to reset any adjustments you had previously made to the programs preferences or settings dialog box, but thats a small price to pay to get your application working again.
instead, the amount  of memory allocated to each application is determined by an obscure setting in  the application program's get info box.
finally, if all else fails, there are several excellent mac-specific  troubleshooting resources available here on the web.
giving yourself enough room to work speaking of ram, another problem that can occur with macs is running out of  memory.
in some situations, extension conflicts can keep your mac from booting at all.
however,  feel free to create links to this, or any other page on the site.
if you do run across  problems, bear in mind some of the previous tips, use some of the available  resources and you should be able to keep your mac in top working form.
if youre still coming across type 11 errors on your power mac, you might want to readthis article (although updating to a current version of the macos would probably help as well).
by the way, in addition to turning off certain extensions to avoid  conflicts, you can get more memory for your applications by turning off  extensions that you aren't regularly using.
the article is a bit out of date,  but you still may find it helpful if you want to find out about certain types  of specific error codes.
now, restart your mac holding down the shift key until you see a message about no extensions (ill explain what this means in a bit) and when you get to the desktop, go to the apple menu again and select the same menu item.
if you enjoyed this article, you'll really like my book, "personal computer secrets."
in addition, some extensions step on each other’s toes by  providing some of the same types of changes to the mac os.
if  you increase both those numbers (they're often in kilobytes, so divide by 1,024  to figure out the amount in megabytes), you'll increase the amount of memory  the application has to do its own work.
you can't change them while the application is open, but otherwise it can be done at any time.
thebasic troubleshooting article from the tech exchange, in particular, offers some great general troubleshooting advice.
however, it doesn't necessarily impact how much memory each application has to use, nor does it automatically increase the amount of memory allocated to each application as needed.
so, for example, a system with 32 mb that uses virtual memory might appear to  the macos as having 64 mb of working room.
you can't change  them while the application is open, but otherwise it can be done at any time.
conflict catcher lets you assign a hot key to launch it during startup
sometimes  the issues are hardware-related (see the accompanying"mac hardware  troubleshooting tips" for more), but most of the time they have to do with  software problems.
you may also want  to checkmacfixit, macintosh software & extension conflict troubleshooting,  or other mac sites you see listed on mytroubleshooting resources page.
so, for example, if you have an extension file like adobe’s  type manager, it adds its type-rendering features to the operating system as  your mac starts up, and stays there as an "extension" to the  operating system for as long as your mac is on.
if the same problem occurs (or if your mac still cant boot), then you havent found the culprit and youll need to select a new set and go through the process all over again.
as the above example shows, extensions can take up a lot of memory and turning off a bunch of them (or even sometimes just a few of them) may give you several megabytes of ram space back.
this mechanism consisted of files called extensions that could, well, extend or alter the features of the operating system.
(not all extensions have startup icons, by the way, so dont presume that because you counted 8 or 10 different icons during the startup, or boot, process thats all you have.
new computer viruses are being developed and unleashed at an alarming rate and even if you have the most recent version of an anti-virus program, you may still be at risk if the virus definitionswhich is what looks for and erases specific virusesarent current.
when apple designed the macs operating system they knew they wouldnt be able to provide all the features that people wanted, so they also built in a mechanism that lets mac users add to or extend the capabilities of the os very easily.
essentially what you do with either utility is select a group of extensions that you want to keep "on" and a group that you want to turn "off" and then after your computer starts with the set of extensions youve chosen, you try to recreate the problem you were having.
if you come across generic mac error messages that have specific numbers in them, you might be able to find more information about them inthis article from apples technical information library.
to get to extensions manager (which is actually a control panel), you can hold down the space bar while youre starting your mac, or choose extensions manager off the control panel submenu under the apple menu while your mac is already running.
theres no easy way to tell by simply looking at a preferences file whether it has a problem, but there is a simple procedure you can try if you suspect a problem.
now, restart your  mac holding down the shift key until you see a message about no extensions  (i’ll explain what this means in a bit) and when you get to the desktop,  go to the apple menu again and select the same menu item.
extensions manager to the rescue
mac software troubleshooting tips by bob o'donnell these days, many people try to claim that windows 95, 98 and/or windows me  are "just as easy" as the mac, but as soon as you scratch below the  surface of each operating system, you’ll quickly discover that the mac os  is still the better designed choice.
the benefit of this arrangement is that any and all programs that run on  your mac and need access to the features offered by the extension can get to  them by interacting with the operating system, as they normally do.
this mechanism consisted of files called extensions that  could, well, extend or alter the features of the operating system.
copyright © 1997- 2005
new application updates, operating system patches, and other types of upgrades are often the key to solving frustrating problems or just some annoying glitches.
the macintosh, on the other hand, is generally much less prone to problems and those problems that do arise tend to have more straightforward answers.
applestech exchange and previously mentionedtechnical information library, for example, are the companys answer to microsofts extensiveknowledge base, and includes all kinds of articles describing specific problems and offers solutions to those problems.
finally, if all else fails, there are several excellent mac-specific troubleshooting resources available here on the web.
using the  extensions manager that’s been built into the mac os since system 7.5, or  an alternative commercial utility such as casady & greene’s popular conflict catcher.
the way that manythough not allmac extensions work is that they are loaded into memory along with mac os at startup time and stay there until you shut down.
by bob o'donnell these days, many people try to claim that windows 95, 98 and/or windows me are "just as easy" as the mac, but as soon as you scratch below the surface of each operating system, youll quickly discover that the mac os is still the better designed choice.
if you increase both those numbers (they're often in kilobytes, so divide by 1,024 to figure out the amount in megabytes), you'll increase the amount of memory the application has to do its own work.
if  you’re having trouble running certain applications or groups of programs,  you’ll want to check those after you’ve selected a different set of  startup extensions.
new  computer viruses are being developed and unleashed at an alarming rate and even  if you have the most recent version of an anti-virus program, you may still be  at risk if the virus definitions—which is what looks for and erases  specific viruses—aren’t current.
if you’re having problems with a specific  application, it may be due to a bad or corrupted preferences file.
this can be very handy if you're  working with large or complex documents because if the application doesn't have  enough room to do its work, you may get an error message saying there isn't  enough memory even if you have lots of ram installed and it's the only program  running.
the reason is, once an extension has been loaded into memory it stays there and continues taking up space until you shut down your mac.
the downside, however, is that some programs dont operate correctly when used in conjunction with certain extensions or certain versions of specific extensions.
if you only make it part of the way through the startup process and then your computer freezes up, then thats the classic sign of an extension conflict.
so, for example, a system with 32 mb that uses virtual memory might appear to the macos as having 64 mb of working room.
so, the trick is to find an amount that lets you work without getting out-of-memory messages, but doesn't take more than necessary.
thebasic troubleshooting article from the tech exchange, in  particular, offers some great general troubleshooting advice.
if you’re encountering strange problems, such as a desktop print  spooler that keeps launching and won’t go away, you may have contracted a  virus.
recently, however, that situation has changed and now  mac users also need to be on the lookout for viruses (such as autostart worms),  trojan horse programs (which hide bad things in a seemingly innocent  package—hence their name), and other nasty stuff that can wreak all kinds  of havoc on your mac.
before i get into what that means, let me tell you a little bit about how the mac os works.
some  extensions need to be loaded last or near the end in order not to conflict with  others.
so, for example, if you have an extension file like adobes type manager, it adds its type-rendering features to the operating system as your mac starts up, and stays there as an "extension" to the operating system for as long as your mac is on.
windows continues to show its ugly dos-based history or some other  arcane architectural flaw as soon as you start trying to fix something that  goes wrong on your pc (see the articles"pc software troubleshooting  tips" and "pc hardware troubleshooting tips" for more).
(not all extensions have startup  icons, by the way, so don’t presume that because you counted 8 or 10  different icons during the startup, or boot, process that’s all you have.
if you come across generic mac error messages that have specific numbers in  them, you might be able to find more information about them inthis article from  apple’s technical information library.
as we move towards larger and larger amounts of ram this concern is becoming increasingly less important, but its still there.
by placing  these files into a special extensions folder inside the system folder, they are  automatically loaded and run whenever the mac starts up.
troubleshooting guide printer-friendly version of this article home | radio | television | books | magazines | consulting | what's new search | feedback | troubleshooting guide | audio | site map send mail to bob@everythingtechnology.com with questions or comments about  this web site.
viruses and other issues mac users were very fortunate for many years because the mac os was fairly  free of computer viruses.
theres no question that the macintosh and the mac os are great products, even if they arent quite perfectyet.
in some situations, extension conflicts can keep your mac from booting at  all.
there’s no question that the macintosh and the mac os are great  products, even if they aren’t quite perfect—yet.
if youre having trouble running certain applications or groups of programs, youll want to check those after youve selected a different set of startup extensions.
inside the ensuing dialog box you'll see a reference to the minimum amount  of memory required by the application to run, as well as a preferred amount.
the  macintosh, on the other hand, is generally much less prone to problems and  those problems that do arise tend to have more straightforward answers.
one site you’ll certainly want to check is apple’s software  updates page.
but that doesnt mean problems dont happen on the mac because they still do.
like pcs, macs take advantage of something known as virtual memory,  which basically uses some space on your mac's hard drive to "fake"  the system into thinking it has more real physical ram than it actually does.
most applications will automatically create a new preferences files the next time you start them if they cant find an existing one in the preferences folder.
conflict catcher lets you assign a hot key to  launch it during startup
essentially  what you do with either utility is select a group of extensions that you want  to keep "on" and a group that you want to turn "off" and  then after your computer starts with the set of extensions you’ve chosen,  you try to recreate the problem you were having.
as you might expect, finding extension conflicts can be very slow and tedious (arent computers grand!), but conflict catcher makes it a bit easier by automating the testing and restarting process to a certain degree.
inside the ensuing dialog box you'll see a reference to the minimum amount of memory required by the application to run, as well as a preferred amount.
some extension conflicts don’t occur during startup, however.
either program lets you selectively turn off individual extensions or groups of extensions at startup time so that you can try and figure out whats causing the problem.
giving yourself enough room to work speaking of ram, another problem that can occur with macs is running out of memory.
you can turn virtual memory on and  off via the memory control panel.
to find this, click on the application you want to check in a finder window and select command (the clover key)-i or select get info from the edit menu.
(you have to do this on the original  application file, not an alias.)
in most instances you'll want it on, but there are some older applications that won't work properly with it turned on, so you should check your mac's settings and adjust them as necessary.
if you only make it part of the way through the startup process and then  your computer freezes up, then that’s the classic sign of an extension  conflict.
finally, the last drawback of this arrangement is that if youre using applications that cant or dont take advantage of the features offered by certain extensions, youre wasting precious mac memory.
if the application has way more than it needs, you'll just be wasting memory.
like pcs, macs take advantage of something known as virtual memory, which basically uses some space on your mac's hard drive to "fake" the system into thinking it has more real physical ram than it actually does.
the  reason is, once an extension has been loaded into memory it stays there and  continues taking up space until you shut down your mac.
so, before you get too far  into the troubleshooting process, take an inventory of your software and  hardware and check to see if any updates are available online from the web  sites of the companies whose products you use.
if you do run across problems, bear in mind some of the previous tips, use some of the available resources and you should be able to keep your mac in top working form.
you don't want to increase the amount too much, however, because these numbers affect how much memory the macos sets aside for the application.
so, whats the trick to solving mac extension conflicts?
if youre having problems with a specific application, it may be due to a bad or corrupted preferences file.
when apple designed the mac’s operating system they knew they  wouldn’t be able to provide all the features that people wanted, so they  also built in a mechanism that lets mac users add to or extend the capabilities  of the os very easily.
staying up to date one area where the mac really isnt that different from pcs is in the need to keep your software up-to-date.
some extensions need to be loaded last or near the end in order not to conflict with others.
to fix that problem and/or avoid getting any viruses in the future, make sure you purchase and install an anti-virus program such asnorton antivirus or virex and, most importantly, keep the virus definitions up to date.
apple’stech exchange  and previously mentionedtechnical information library, for example, are the  company’s answer to microsoft’s extensiveknowledge base, and includes  all kinds of articles describing specific problems and offers solutions to  those problems.
just open the preferences folder inside your mac’s  system folder, look for the preferences or "prefs" file for the  particular application, and drag it into the trash.
the difference between the two is the amount of memory that your extensions are using.
if youre encountering strange problems, such as a desktop print spooler that keeps launching and wont go away, you may have contracted a virus.
the difference between the two is the amount of memory that your  extensions are using.
viruses and other issues mac users were very fortunate for many years because the mac os was fairly free of computer viruses.
so, before you get too far into the troubleshooting process, take an inventory of your software and hardware and check to see if any updates are available online from the web sites of the companies whose products you use.
by the way, if you have only one or two problematic documents, you can always just adjust the application's memory allocations--which is what these numbers are called--right before you work with them, and then change them as soon as you're done.
if you’re still coming across type 11 errors on  your power mac, you might want to readthis article (although updating to a  current version of the macos would probably help as well).
however, feel free to create links to this, or any other page on the site.
to get to extensions manager (which is actually a control panel), you can  hold down the space bar while you’re starting your mac, or choose  extensions manager off the control panel submenu under the apple menu while  your mac is already running.
in addition, dont forget to check on any extensions you have installed, particularly ones that function as drivers for any hardware youve added to your mac.
to find this, click on the application  you want to check in a finder window and select command (the clover key)-i or  select get info from the edit menu.
in some cases you may have to reset any adjustments you had previously made  to the program’s preferences or settings dialog box, but that’s a  small price to pay to get your application working again.
you should see a  dramatically lower amount of memory being used by the mac os, or system, in  this case.
a practical benefit of virtual memory is that it gives your mac enough room  to open up multiple applications.
what's new search | feedback | troubleshooting guide | audio | site map
in addition, some extensions step on each others toes by providing some of the same types of changes to the mac os.
the benefit of this arrangement is that any and all programs that run on your mac and need access to the features offered by the extension can get to them by interacting with the operating system, as they normally do.
most applications will  automatically create a new preferences files the next time you start them if  they can’t find an existing one in the preferences folder.
the  downside, however, is that some programs don’t operate correctly when used  in conjunction with certain extensions or certain versions of specific  extensions.
extending the macs reach speaking of extensions, the vast majority of problems that pop up on macintoshes are due to what are called extension conflicts.
if the  application has way more than it needs, you'll just be wasting memory.
as the above example shows,  extensions can take up a lot of memory and turning off a bunch of them (or even  sometimes just a few of them) may give you several megabytes of ram space back.
others simply make  changes in a way that conflicts with each other.
some extension conflicts dont occur during startup, however.
there’s no easy way to tell by simply looking at a preferences file  whether it has a problem, but there is a simple procedure you can try if you  suspect a problem.
they also let you change the order  in which the extensions are loaded, which can also make a difference.
as you might expect, finding extension conflicts can be very slow and  tedious (aren’t computers grand!), but conflict catcher makes it a bit  easier by automating the testing and restarting process to a certain degree.
instead, the amount of memory allocated to each application is determined by an obscure setting in the application program's get info box.
nowhere is this more apparent than when it comes to troubleshooting common problems.
nowhere is this more apparent than when it comes to troubleshooting common  problems.
problems with preferences another fairly common problem on macintoshes has to do with preference  files, which are files used by most applications to store certain settings they  need to operate properly.
others simply make changes in a way that conflicts with each other.
the way that many—though not all—mac extensions work is that they  are loaded into memory along with mac os at startup time and stay there until  you shut down.
©1998-2000 o'donnell enterprises reproduction in any form is prohibited without permission.
by the way, if you ever want to see just how much memory your extensions use, try this simple procedure.
(a partial boot can also be a symptom of a hardware-based scsi problem, though, so check the"mac hardware troubleshooting tips" article for more.)
sometimes the issues are hardware-related (see the accompanying"mac hardware troubleshooting tips" for more), but most of the time they have to do with software problems.
in fact, for some people, they are maddeningly common.
you don't want to increase the amount too much, however, because these  numbers affect how much memory the macos sets aside for the application.
all  rights reserved.
one site youll certainly want to check is apples software updates page.
so, what’s the trick to solving mac extension conflicts?
first, do a normal mac startup and when you  reach the desktop, go up to the apple menu and select about this computer (or  about this macintosh or whatever the message on your machine happens to be) to  see a display of how much memory each application on your mac is currently  using.
just open the preferences folder inside your macs system folder, look for the preferences or "prefs" file for the particular application, and drag it into the trash.
(you have to do this on the original application file, not an alias.)
problems with preferences another fairly common problem on macintoshes has to do with preference files, which are files used by most applications to store certain settings they need to operate properly.
windows continues to show its ugly dos-based history or some other arcane architectural flaw as soon as you start trying to fix something that goes wrong on your pc (see the articles"pc software troubleshooting tips" and "pc hardware troubleshooting tips" for more).
home | radio | television | books | magazines | consulting |
using the extensions manager thats been built into the mac os since system 7.5, or an alternative commercial utility such as casady & greenes popular conflict catcher.
extending the mac’s reach speaking of extensions, the vast majority of problems that pop up on  macintoshes are due to what are called extension conflicts.
if it does turn out to be an extension-related problem, youll know youve found the problem when the mac makes it through the startup phase and brings you to the desktop.
o'donnell enterprises.
if you enjoyed this article, you'll really like my book, "personal  computer secrets."
by the way, if you ever want to see just how much memory your extensions  use, try this simple procedure.
last modified: january 01, 2005 web site hosting  provided byglobal network services
as we move towards  larger and larger amounts of ram this concern is becoming increasingly less  important, but it’s still there.
but that doesn’t mean problems don’t happen on the mac because  they still do.
a practical benefit of virtual memory is that it gives your mac enough room to open up multiple applications.
they also let you change the order in which the extensions are loaded, which can also make a difference.
to fix that problem and/or avoid getting any viruses in the future, make  sure you purchase and install an anti-virus program such asnorton antivirus or  virex and, most importantly, keep the virus definitions up to date.
the only time most mac users even become aware of extensions is during the startup, when the little icons representing different extension files dance across the bottom of your macs screen.
you should see a dramatically lower amount of memory being used by the mac os, or system, in this case.
new application updates, operating  system patches, and other types of upgrades are often the key to solving  frustrating problems or just some annoying glitches.
recently, however, that situation has changed and now mac users also need to be on the lookout for viruses (such as autostart worms), trojan horse programs (which hide bad things in a seemingly innocent packagehence their name), and other nasty stuff that can wreak all kinds of havoc on your mac.
staying up to date one area where the mac really isn’t that different from pcs is in the  need to keep your software up-to-date.