- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
those looking for higher performance have the option of going with the mac pro systems which have a more traditional desktop look but definitely not standard internals.
by mark kyrnin, about.com guide see more about: - performance desktops - apple apple mac pro ©apple
apple mac pro ©apple
the bottom line dec 2 2010 - apple's single processor version of the mac pro has stiff competition from  apple's 27-inch imac.
overall, there is little reason to go with the single processor version of the mac pro unless you need the additional internal drive slots.
unlike the other apple products, the mac pro does not come with  an sd card slot.
those looking for higher performance have the option of  going with the mac pro systems which have a more traditional desktop look but  definitely not standard internals.
thankfully, apple has upgraded the graphics from their previous models of mac pros.
it  also features a dual-link dvi for older or non-apple displays.
unlike the other apple products, the mac pro does not come with an sd card slot.
star rating be the first to write a review
there are two versions, the two processor version and the single processor version.
also included is a dual layer dvd burner for playback and recording of cds and dvds.
this is  matched up with 3gb of ddr3 memory that under mac os x runs the system fairly  well but for a performance machine is fairly limited.
thankfully, apple has upgraded the graphics from their previous models of  mac pros.
but it just doesn't make up for  the additional cost.
- desktop pc buyer's guide - budget laptop pcs by category - performance desktops - apple - find the right pc - laptop pcs - desktop pcs - pc hardware basics - diy tutorials - monitors - cd/dvd drives - video cards - hard drives - pc audio - memory - processors - motherboards - cases, psus and cooling - pc gaming pc hardware / reviews - about.com - computing & technology - pc hardware / reviews - desktop pcs - performance desktop pcs - apple mac pro 2010 performance desktop personal computer review> - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
those hoping to expand this out will find that it is limited to just 16gb of memory which is somewhat disappointing for a workstation classed system.
- about.com - computing & technology - pc hardware / reviews pc hardware / reviews search free pc hardware / reviews newsletter!
dual layer burner - ati radeon hd 5770 graphics card with 1gb memory - 5.1 audio support - dual gigabit ethernet, 802.11a/g/n wireless, bluetooth 2.1 - seven usb 2.0, four firewire 800, two mini displayport, one dvi - mac osx 10.6, ilife dec 2 2010 - apple's desktop lineup is primarily dominated by the imac all-in-one system.
the bottom line dec 2 2010 - apple's single processor version of the mac pro has stiff competition from apple's 27-inch imac.
the big issue with the single processor version of the mac pro is the cost.
there are two versions, the two processor  version and the single processor version.
this review takes a look at the single processor model.
- building vs. buying - common pc shopping mistakes - apple support profile - apple mac pro performance desktop pc
they have upgraded this to the ati radeon hd 5770 graphics card with 1gb of memory.
sign up - pc hardware / reviews - buyer's guides - pc reviews - build a pc discuss in my forum apple mac pro 2010 performance desktop pc about.com rating 2
those hoping to expand  this out will find that it is limited to just 16gb of memory which is somewhat  disappointing for a workstation classed system.
but it is far from short  from the highest levels available from ati or nvidia.
review - mac desktop gift guide - holiday buying guide to mac desktops - mac buying guide - learn more about the different mac models before you buy - mac pro 2010 initial benchmarks – geekbench and cinebench results for... - summer 2010 mac pro review – using the 2010 mac pro mark kyrnin pc hardware / reviews guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches dual layer burner desktop lineup ddr3 memory sata hard drive inch imac wireless bluetooth explore pc hardware / reviews must reads most popular - how to buy a pc for less - tablet buyer's guide - laptop pc buyer's guide - desktop pc buyer's guide - best laptops under $600 see more about: - best all-in-one pcs - best 24-inch lcds - what pc to buy?
this review takes a look at the  single processor model.
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks
this is an older nehalem version of the workstation processor that has performance that would rank it very similar to the core i7-860 desktop class processor which a few differences that give it a slight edge.
the single core version of the apple mac pro uses a quad core intel xenon w3530 processor.
those wanting a higher performance desktop class apple  product really need to consider the dual processor mac pro or just stick with  the 27-inch imac.
those wanting a higher performance desktop class apple product really need to consider the dual processor mac pro or just stick with the 27-inch imac. pros cons - excellent case design - upgraded graphics from past version - apple keyboard with numeric keypad description - very expensive - limited expansion for memory upgrades guide review - apple mac pro 2010 performance desktop pc - intel xenon w3530 quad core workstation processor - 3gb pc3-8500 ddr3 memory - 1tb 7200rpm sata hard drive - 18x dvd+/-rw
there is a terabyte sized hard drive that spins at 7200rpm which provides plenty of space for applications and data.
a part of the new york times company.
what sets the mac pro apart  from the imac is the fact that there are four hard drive bays and two optical  drive slots meaning that the system has lots of internal expansion space that  the imac lacks.
with a retail price of $2500, it is possible to get an equally high performance 27-inch imac that comes with more base memory and a built-in display for $500 less.
at $2500, the system is just too expensive compared to a  similarly equipped imac.
before they used an older version nvidia geforce graphics processor.
also included is a dual layer dvd  burner for playback and recording of cds and dvds.
this change was really necessitated by the switch to the mini  displayport connector for their external monitors which the card has two of.
the cards  performance certainly tops the older geforce gt 120
this change was really necessitated by the switch to the mini displayport connector for their external monitors which the card has two of.
it also features a dual-link dvi for older or non-apple displays.
the cards performance certainly tops the older geforce gt 120
but it is far from short from the highest levels available from ati or nvidia.
at $2500, the system is just too expensive compared to a similarly equipped imac.
pros upgraded graphics from past version apple keyboard with numeric keypad cons limited expansion for memory upgrades description intel xenon w3530 quad core workstation processor 3gb pc3-8500 ddr3 memory 1tb 7200rpm sata hard drive 18x dvd+/-rw dual layer burner ati radeon hd 5770 graphics card with 1gb memory 5.1 audio support dual gigabit ethernet, 802.11a/g/n wireless, bluetooth 2.1 seven usb 2.0, four firewire 800, two mini displayport, one dvi mac osx 10.6, ilife guide review - apple mac pro 2010  performance desktop pc dec 2 2010 - apple's desktop lineup is primarily dominated by the  imac all-in-one system.
overall, there is little reason to go with the single processor version  of the mac pro unless you need the additional internal drive slots.
this is an older nehalem version of the workstation processor  that has performance that would rank it very similar to the core i7-860 desktop  class processor which a few differences that give it a slight edge.
sure, the mac pro case is still one of the better on  the market and has extra internal upgrade space
but it just doesn't make up for the additional cost.
the single core version of the apple mac pro uses a quad core intel xenon  w3530 processor.
there is a terabyte sized hard drive that spins at 7200rpm which provides  plenty of space for applications and data.
sure, the mac pro case is still one of the better on the market and has extra internal upgrade space
this is matched up with 3gb of ddr3 memory that under mac os x runs the system fairly well but for a performance machine is fairly limited.
they have upgraded this to the ati radeon hd 5770 graphics card with 1gb of  memory.
with a retail price of $2500, it is possible to get an equally high performance  27-inch imac that comes with more base memory and a built-in display for $500  less.
storage features on the base system are typical of a high end desktop.
user reviews write a review be the first to write a review related guide picks related resources - best performance desktops - best mainstream desktops - best 3d video cards - best 24-inch lcds - best 27 to 30-inch lcds related articles - desktop pc buyer's guide - what is raid?
what sets the mac pro apart from the imac is the fact that there are four hard drive bays and two optical drive slots meaning that the system has lots of internal expansion space that the imac lacks.