to mac requests pretty quickly.
make sure you have a team ready to help with the initial setup and ongoing support of your macs, and you’ll be okay.
it then asked me to insert my windows installation disk, and from there on it was like setting up any other windows pc.
so i decided to do my testing using their fusion product to create a virtual pc on the mac.
while there were ways to access pc software from a mac, the experience was usually a bad one, and few pursued the option strongly.
so my pc applications looked very similar to my mac applications!
full applications full featured applications for these tasks can usually be bought to run on either the mac or pc.
and though there’s no command prompt function, there is a similar mac function called terminal which opens a window you can run unix commands in.
there are some nice features on the mac.
in those cases, the software is pretty close to the same in capability, with two exceptions: mac cost macs cost more than windows pcs.
10.7 lion is a big thumbs down.
we  can make them work with pcs on the same network, and even run pc applications  on them very well.
© 2008 by nick b. nicholaou, all rights reserved president, ministry  business services, inc.
i could run all of the pc programs i  normally run on a pc very nicely using vmware’s fusion!
i am re-examining this issue from two perspectives: what does it take to run pc software on a mac?  what are the  limitations?
mbs, inc. what are the top reasons you want to move to the cloud?
so i decided to do my testing using their fusion  product to create a virtual pc on the mac.
vmware’s fusion uses the same  approach on the mac as it does in its server software.
there are many paths, grasshopper… there are  at least five ways to run pc software on a mac: remote desktop via terminal services mac os x’s boot camp (booting up in whichever operating system you  want… switching means restarting the computer) swsoft’s parallels microsoft’s virtual pc for mac vmware’s fusion
pc-on-a-mac fusion observations the first thing i  noticed was how fast the pc ran!
maybe 10.7.3 mbs, inc. rt @jasonmlee: out with the old... #citrt http://t.co/wjpabze2 //
okay, pc apps run well on a mac… but are they worth it?
i set up a virtual pc having one processor, 1gb of ram, and a 60gb hard drive.
home > articles > ‘can i get a  mac?’
and that functionality works in mac programs too!
it took some research, but i found the  following keystrokes for pc users working on a mac: insert =
little did i know that doing so  with three needing restarts would corrupt the os!
and the speakers are terrific!
that includes ms  office 2007 (including outlook and visio), sql databases, bible study software  (libronix), and utilities i use to setup microsoft networks.
the problems are: those who will use them are likely called to minister, not to support  computers.
editing pictures, video, and sound are all similarly better in mac applets.
that makes sense, of course, when you  consider that it’s virtual and all running in the mac’s ram.
escalated support told  me that whenever there are updates needing a restart, they should be installed  separately.
it was worth it because supporting macs is part of our business  model, but i would otherwise have a hard time justifying the cost difference.
honestly, that hasn’t happened to me in a windows os for many years.
but few on church and ministry it staffs can support them, relegating their  support to the mac user.
many it professionals are  working with vmware’s virtual server products, and our firm has had great  success with them.
this makes using the mac in  low light enjoyable and easy… something i’ve always felt was  missing from my pc notebooks.
i also found that i couldn’t extend any pc programs across multiple  monitors… they all must run in a single monitor.
tags: mac trackback from your site.
that corrupted the os again.
i set up a virtual pc having one  processor, 1gb of ram, and a 60gb hard drive.
basic mac os apps the mac os (operating system) comes with bundled software, like windows does, to help users manage creative files.
honestly, that hasn’t happened to me in a windows os for many  years.
can one have a total ‘pc running pc software’
when users are responsible for their own support, they rarely backup their  files.
we need an updated  response, and this article may help.
i also setup  virtual linux and windows vista computers and had success in each.
but one thing surprised me:  the mac’s keyboard  illuminates in low light— very nice!
we need an updated response, and this article may help.
i also found that i couldn’t extend any pc programs across multiple monitors… they all must run in a single monitor.
and though there’s no command prompt function, there is a similar mac  function called terminal which opens a window you can run unix commands in.
if you’ve got the budget, it’s okay to say,  “yes.”
that makes sense, of course, when you consider that it’s virtual and all running in the mac’s ram.
the mac mystique macs have an undeniable mystique  about them, and it’s causing many on our teams to request them.
mbs, inc. rt @jasonpowell: whoever did this cabling should be fired immediately #citrt http://t.co/h4rf1lan //
pc-centric churches usually say, “no.”
if one will only be using the bundled applications, there’s no doubt those provided with the mac os are better.
this makes using the mac in low light enjoyable and easy… something i’ve always felt was missing from my pc notebooks.
a couple of frustrations the mac keyboard is missing keys!
in my initial research i found many complaining about all of these  possibilities except for parallels and fusion.
i also found that you can plug a two-button mouse into the mac and  get all of the functionality available in the pc.
i’ve had to completely rebuild it from the ground up twice in the last month!
my high-end  macbook pro cost easily double what i would have spent for a similarly equipped  pc.
make sure you have a team ready to help with the  initial setup and ongoing support of your macs, and you’ll be okay.
historically this decision has been driven by the  software / applications in use.
the software installation was  surprisingly easy, and setup was too.
so my pc applications looked  very similar to my mac applications!
fusion also gave me the option of setting up the ability to share folders  between the two desktops!
it turned out very nice.
apple recently began  selling macs that use the same intel processors pcs use.
written by nick b. nicholaou on january 1, 2008.
the software installation was surprisingly easy, and setup was too.
they definitely cost  more, but saying, “no.”
many it professionals are working with vmware’s virtual server products, and our firm has had great success with them.
my high-end macbook pro cost easily double what i would have spent for a similarly equipped pc.
the mac i used for testing was a macbook pro running mac os x 10.4.11 (tiger) with a 2.4ghz intel core 2 duo processor, 4gb ram, 160gb hard drive, and 17-inch monitor.
since the decision for hardware is best made based on the software in use, the pcvs mac issue had been relatively easy.
vmware’s fusion uses the same approach on the mac as it does in its server software.
i discovered that right-click functionality is available using the mac’s mouse while pressing the ctrl key.
requests for macs will  keep coming, and they can work in your environment.
but one thing surprised me: the mac’s keyboard illuminates in low light— very nice!
a couple of frustrations the mac keyboard is missing  keys!
for a comparison, i took our vacation slides from this summer and made them  into a dvd.
office 2008 fixes some issues i had with 2007.
username: password: remember me @macrumors:
reprinted from christian computing magazine there’s a lot of buzz these days about macs, and many in ministry are asking for them.
like the insert and print screen keys!
basic mac os apps the mac os (operating system) comes with  bundled software, like windows does, to help users manage creative files.
that includes ms office 2007 (including outlook and visio), sql databases, bible study software (libronix), and utilities i use to setup microsoft networks.
mac cost macs cost more than windows pcs.
i believe the os should know how to manage that.
mbs, inc. rt @rickwarren
it took some research, but i found the following keystrokes for pc users working on a mac: the mac uses a one-button mouse.
to read an advance copy, click here:http://t.co/ckrppqf8 mbs, inc. rt @itsscottwilder: @mbsnick i agree.
his view of me doesn’t control my choice to honor him.
it should know that  certain files cannot have their rights changed to protect the integrity of the  system.
and the delete key  acts like a backspace key!
before that happened, pc software couldn’t run well on a mac.
the mac reputation macs are thought to be systems that run creative software better (music, graphics, and video editing) and that give users a better ‘personal’ experience.
they give you suggestions along with minimum and maximum ranges.
apple + shift + 3 the mac uses a one-button mouse.
mac support issues i work in both oss constantly, and  i have been disappointed with the mac os (leopard).
i also setup virtual linux and windows vista computers and had success in each.
these are sometimes referred to as applets because they’re simple  applications when compared to their commercial counterparts.
you create a virtual pc following easy prompts asking how large the hard drive should  be, how much ram it should have, etc.  they give you suggestions along  with minimum and maximum ranges.
it took my pc applications and allowed them to run as normal floating ‘windows’ on the mac desktop!
apple recently began selling macs that use the same intel processors pcs use.
both were caused by weaknesses in the os that allowed it to corrupt itself: the mac mystique macs have an undeniable mystique about them, and it’s causing many on our teams to request them.
ios blog: ios surpasses os x in share of u.s. web traffic http://t.co/y9yjx2es mbs, inc. new article released to publishers on the consumeriztion of it.
some programs, like microsoft office, release os-specific versions where  each is a year or two after the other, so whichever was released last is often  better.
what’s the bottom line?
vmware assures me  that functionality is coming in an update.
giving them support responsibility means they’ll be  doing so at least some of the time we’d rather see them fulfilling their  call to minister.
the mac reputation macs are thought to be systems  that run creative software better (music, graphics, and video editing) and that  give users a better ‘personal’ experience.
but few on church and ministry it staffs can support them, relegating their support to the mac user.
the pc’s current version is 2007, and the mac’s is  2008.
before that  happened, pc software couldn’t run well on a mac.  while there were  ways to access pc software from a mac, the experience was usually a bad one,  and few pursued the option strongly.
pc-centric churches usually say,  “no.”
they definitely cost more, but saying, “no.”
the monitor is much nicer  than my pc monitors (desktop and notebook).
when something happens (like what happened twice to me!), if their  files aren’t backed up, they will have to spend quite a bit of time  recreating them.
it was worth it because supporting macs is part of our business model, but i would otherwise have a hard time justifying the cost difference.
both were caused by weaknesses in the os that allowed it to  corrupt itself: when i first received this new mac, it said it needed fourteen  updates.
when i did it on the mac  using its applets, it took me 4-5 hours, and the end product was much  better!
macs cost more than pcs.
mac users may argue that, but there’s really no argument.
historically this decision has been driven by the software / applications in use.
i discovered that right-click  functionality is available using the mac’s mouse while pressing the ctrl  key.
but macs can run pc software now, so the question is going to keep coming.
pc-on-a-mac fusion observations the first thing i noticed was how fast the pc ran!
i also found that you can plug a two-button mouse into the mac and get all of the functionality available in the pc.
mac support issues i work in both oss constantly, and i have been disappointed with the mac os (leopard).
the monitor is much nicer than my pc monitors (desktop and notebook).
for a comparison, i took our vacation slides from this summer and made them into a dvd.
since the decision for hardware is  best made based on the software in use, the pcvs mac issue had been  relatively easy.
it took my  pc applications and allowed them to run as normal floating  ‘windows’ on the mac desktop!
but macs can run pc  software now, so the question is going to keep coming.
and the speakers are  terrific!
full applications full featured applications for  these tasks can usually be bought to run on either the mac or pc.
is there intrinsic value in using a mac to  accomplish our tasks that justifies the additional cost?
mac  users may argue that, but there’s really no argument.
when i did it on the mac using its applets, it took me 4-5 hours, and the end product was much better!
once someone gets used to the different approaches on either  side, they will prefer doing their work in their familiar os.
(an example would be comparing microsoft’s paint with adobe’s illustrator.)
these are sometimes referred to as applets because they’re simple applications when compared to their commercial counterparts.
i am re-examining this issue from two perspectives: there are many paths, grasshopper… there are at least five ways to run pc software on a mac: in my initial research i found many complaining about all of these possibilities except for parallels and fusion.
i told it to install them.
(an example  would be comparing microsoft’s paint with adobe’s  illustrator.)  if one will only be using the bundled applications,  there’s no doubt those provided with the mac os are better.
then i decided to try fusion’s ‘unity’ mode.
i could run all of the pc programs i normally run on a pc very nicely using vmware’s fusion!
and the delete key acts like a backspace key!
this  technology works, and is ready to help us as we focus on building the kingdom.
reprinted from christian computing magazine there’s a lot of buzz these days about macs, and many in ministry are  asking for them.
i'm looking for top motivators for pastors…#citrt #nacba mbs, inc. new post on texting abuse & misuse: http://t.co/ckrppqf8 #citrt #nacba mbs, inc. new post on texting abuse & misuse: http://t.co/ckrppqf8 #citrt #nacba mbs, inc. for mbs retainer clients: spec sheet updated, includes new minimum dell specs that unfortunately also reflect worldwide hard drive shortage.
honestly, i was surprised.
the mac i used for testing was  a macbook pro running mac os x 10.4.11 (tiger) with a 2.4ghz intel core 2 duo  processor, 4gb ram, 160gb hard drive, and 17-inch monitor.
i’m used to having full rights to  the entire drive in windows, so i told the mac os to allow me the same on the  mac harddrive.
© 2008 by nick b. nicholaou, all rights reserved president, ministry business services, inc.
vmware assures me that functionality is coming in an update.
in  those cases, the software is pretty close to the same in capability, with two  exceptions: the underlying os requires some things to be laid out and approached  differently.
and this is from an unrepentant apple fanboy.#citrt //
this might be  true, depending on the kind of user one is.
a function i wanted to run between my virtual pc and my mac didn’t  have some file rights it needed.
now, though, we’re having to re-examine the pc vs mac decision.
when i did it on the pc using windows’ applets, it took me 26-28 hours.
requests for macs will keep coming, and they can work in your environment.
it then asked me to insert  my windows installation disk, and from there on it was like setting up any  other windows pc.
this might be true, depending on the kind of user one is.
fusion also gave me the option of setting up the ability to share folders between the two desktops!
we can make them work with pcs on the same network, and even run pc applications on them very well.
this technology works, and is ready to help us as we focus on building the kingdom.
fn + delete (otherwise it’s a backspace key)
you create a virtual pc following easy prompts asking how large the hard drive should be, how much ram it should have, etc.
when i did it on the pc using windows’ applets, it took  me 26-28 hours.
and that functionality  works in mac programs too!
i’ve had to  completely rebuild it from the ground up twice in the last month!
i've great respect for him@dyos rick,how do u react to macarthur?
if you’ve got the budget, it’s okay to say, “yes.”