"most people don't know that they are using their midrange vision when  viewing a computer,"says optician lester frankel, but by wearing  eyeglasses designed to correct for midrange vision, visual discomfort will be  eliminated.
major league baseball and the mac - get more out  of leopard support low end mac recent content on low end mac my experience with the local apple store, simon royal, mac spectrum,  2012.03.29.
"these over the counter computer glasses will revolutionize the  eyeglass industry the way the over the counter readers did for reading  glasses," says dave grossman, coo of computer eyed, "computer users  are looking for a high quality affordable option."
ifixit ipad teardown, new ipad warmer than old, use your ipad as a  wireless display, and more, 2012.03.26.
computer eyed's over the counter bifocal computer readers are affordable,  fashionable, and prevent the symptoms of computer vision syndrome.
this sounds like the next best thing to prescription computer  glasses, and at a very reasonable price.
additional updates to the photo browser include both minor usability improvements and performance improvements.
the improved photo browser palette in pixelmator not only makes it easy to  browse the iphoto library, but also offers quick access to the aperture  library, projects, albums, smart albums, and folders as well as access to  photobooth-taken images and predefined custom folders.
the pixelmator team has released pixelmator 1.6.1, an update of the revolutionary gpu-powered image editing tool that provides everything needed to create, edit, and enhance still images.
the advantage is time savings, urls that won't break across multiple lines in some email readers, and easy to recognize urls.
pastors and ministry leaders can now create links to specific verses or  passages on the fly in their emails, facebook posts, or twitter messages  confidently without having to go to a bible website, look up the scripture,  copy the url, and use a url shortening service liketinyurl.com or bit.ly.
this 6-slot tower  supported dual cpus and still has a following.
advice is presented in good faith, but what works for one may not work for all.
if the user wanted a specific translation, they just need to append the translation abbreviation to the end of the url.
was designed to be distinct from  the normal training seminar.
the vision council of america estimates that more than 10 million americans suffer from vision problems related to computer usage.
but this new url shortcut service for bible verses lets users  create direct links to any bible passage in any of 30+ translations on the fly.
as we  bring the steelseries shift to market, we are continuing to work with the best  developers and publishers in the games industry to offer player's unique  layouts and functionalities that will enhance their entire gaming  experience.
check out our product page for further details about compatibility.
users  simply have to type inwordof.gd/ and the scripture verse or passage they  are searching for.
for example, http://wordof.gd/john3.16greek would display the greek interlinear text for  john 3:16.
e.g.  verses from the book of matthew could be indicated with "matthew,"  "matt," or even "mt".
built from the ground up on a combination of open source and mac os x  technologies, pixelmator features powerful selection, painting, retouching,  navigation, and color correction tools, and layers-based image editing,  gpu-powered image processing, color management, automation, and transparent hud  user interface for work with images.
"the shift greatly expands the functionality and concept of the original zboard, which joined our product line in 2008 as a result of our acquisition of ideazon, with new steelseries features that will provide gamers with a keyboard experience that can be customized for all types of games.
low end mac, lowendmac, and lowendmac.com are trademarks of cobweb publishing inc.
march 31 in lem history: 96: end of eworld - 00:
gd is a web project of godvertiser.com, which is a resource site for  pastors and ministry leaders who want to learn about effective church marketing  in today's environment.
suggested retail is $39.99.
while other bible url shortcut services are usually restricted to a single  bible website's translation offerings, wordof.
link: computer eyed pr: steelseries has announced their new steelseries shift gaming keyboard.
or buy direct from strider software.
gd bible linker web app pr: have you ever tried to look up a specific translation of a bible  verse, but it wasn't available on your favorite bible website?
players can take advantage of an endless amount of  layered movements with the support of its anti-ghosting capability, which  allows up to simultaneous 7 keystrokes.
link: apple mac mini, slimmer, likeable, but too expensive this lamp's rick mansfield reports that the first-ever accordance users conference, which met from september 24-25. was designed to be distinct from the normal training seminar.
apple, the apple logo, macintosh, ipad iphone, imac, ipod, macbook, magsafe, mac pro, apple tv, and airport areregistered trademarks of apple inc.
links for the day mac of the day: supermac s900, introduced 1996.08.
while other bible url shortcut services are usually restricted to a single bible website's translation offerings, wordof.
with three height levels,  extra wide feet, and a wrist rest that include rubber inserts to prevent  slipping, users are able to choose what feels most comfortable for their  preferences.
please report errors to .
ipad, ipod, iphone, and apple tv news is covered in the ios news  review.
quill gripless ergonomic mouse - 04:
players can take advantage of an endless amount of layered movements with the support of its anti-ghosting capability, which allows up to simultaneous 7 keystrokes.
available as a free software  update, pixelmator 1.6.1 adds aperture support, an improved photo browser  palette, a revamped stroke feature, bug fixes, and more.
also repairability of the new ipad,  screen size matters for tablets and smart phones, app helps fight speeding  tickets, and more.
apple adds community discussion, apple quality slipping?, photoshop cs6  beta, and more, 2012.03.23.
-- special introductory price of $59.95!!
additional updates to  the photo browser include both minor usability improvements and performance  improvements.
gd offers users more translations since it forwards users to more than one bible website based on the translation requested.
additional hardware features include: 2 usb 2.0 ports, including 1 powered every key on the steelseries shift can be customized; more than just macros, players can record a sequence of actions with delays and then map that sequence to a single key.
every keyset is uniquely designed in cooperation with  game publishers and configured with input from expert players to establish an  intuitive command setup and predefined game mods for games of all types.
news & opinion mac mini 'too expensive' by pc standards highlights from the 2010 accordance bible software users conference products & services $40 optically designed otc computer bifocals can prevent eyestrain and  related aches and pains steelseries shift interchangeable keyset gaming keyboard software clamxav, best free mac antivirus app, better than ever public beta for www.
the patent-pending lens has an antiglare  coating that reduces digital glare and provides increased visual comfort and  acuity.
the carpenter's trade in  the computer age - 03:
users will also appreciate links available in the small header bar above the final bible passage display that allow users to immediately email or tweet the bible passage being viewed using wordof.
follow us on twitter.
email may be published at our discretion unless marked "not for publication"; email addresses will not be published without permission, and we will encrypt them in hopes of avoiding spammers.
the optical quality frames in a variety of styles have spring hinges, stylish detailing, and come with coordinating protective eyeglass case.
the latest mountain lion developer  preview drops support for several macs that could run the first developer  preview.
gd bible linker also supports interlinear display when the url includes eitherhebrew or greek at the end of the url.
"with the introduction of the steelseries shift, we're able to bring  another unique and powerful gaming tool to consumers, says steelseries ceo,  bruce hawver.
we also track ipod touch, ipod classic, ipod nano, and ipod shuffle deals.
" premium build quality the interchangeable keyset design is the only common denominator between  the steelseries shift and zboard.
"the shift greatly expands the functionality and concept of  the original zboard, which joined our product line in 2008 as a result of our  acquisition of ideazon, with new steelseries features that will provide gamers  with a keyboard experience that can be customized for all types of games.
poker mac will show you how to download and install a native mac poker andmac casino applications in minutes.
features and benefits of computer eyed computer glasses prevents the symptoms of computer vision syndrome optical quality bifocal lens that corrects for both reading (close) and  computer (midrange) vision convenience, one pair of eyeglasses that corrects two vision problems antiglare coating that reduces digital glare and provides increased visual  acuity and comfort optical quality frame and lens spring hinges light weight comes with coordinating protective eyeglass case publisher's note: i discovered years ago (after graduating to bifocals)
e.g. verses from the book of matthew could be indicated with "matthew," "matt," or even "mt".
lens powers offered start at +1.50 through +3.00.
the patent-pending lens also  has an antiglare coating that reduces the digital glare emitted from the  average computer screen, thus providing the user increased visual comfort and  acuity.
keysets that support backwards  compatibility includes aionô, world of warcraft: wrath of the lich king,  and starcraft ii: wings of liberty.
link:  clamxav 2.0.7 anti-virus: updated engine; better install, updating link: clamxav 2.0 public beta public beta for www.
gd link: godvertiser.com pr: a new version of your editor's favorite mac os x system maintenance app, freeware onyx, is available.
would apple really fix it  for free?
the interchangeable keyset design is the only common denominator between the steelseries shift and zboard.
clickinstall, and you're ready to go.
the timing of  the conference also coincided with the release of accordance version 9, and the  upcoming ios version of accordance which was publicly demonstrated for the  first time.
"these over the counter computer glasses will revolutionize the eyeglass industry the way the over the counter readers did for reading glasses," says dave grossman, coo of computer eyed, "computer users are looking for a high quality affordable option."
other changes in pixelmator 1.6.1  include improvements for save-for-web feature, minor user interface and  performance improvements, and several bug fixes.
equipped with an advanced chip reader in the steelseries shift base, users can easily interchange steelseries shift keysets from the standard qwerty keyset, which is included, to licensed keysets of blockbuster game titles that are each sold separately.
customized gaming terrain equipped with an advanced chip reader in the steelseries shift base, users  can easily interchange steelseries shift keysets from the standard qwerty  keyset, which is included, to licensed keysets of blockbuster game titles that  are each sold separately.
ditto for apple demanding aus$140 for a hard drive upgrade from 320 gb to 500 gb, when you can buy a brand-new 500 gb drive retail for less than aus$100, noting that "on paper it looks like the mac mini should be half the price.
new ipad has 1 gb ram and is mostly battery, ipad 2 breakage statistics,  new ipad cases, and more, 2012.03.19.
if the user wanted a specific translation, they just need to  append the translation abbreviation to the end of the url.
" custom made computer glasses can cost consumers hundreds of dollars.
bible readers can now get to the passage and translation they want in an instant with the launch of wordof.
system requirements, as well as a free 30-day pixelmator trial and more information about pixelmator can be found at pixelmator's website.
and if a user wanted to use a  link elsewhere to that specific passage being viewed, they can easily  copy/paste a properly formatted url shortcut also presented in the header bar.
the increased use of computers and digital devices are taking a toll on the  nation's eye health.
pc authority's darien graham-smith deems the 2010 mac mini a likable, well-engineered machine - "front-room friendly" with its stylish aluminum casing, cool running, and near silence - but declares it not worth anywhere near the asking price.
gd bible linker web app onyx 2.1.8 released pixelmator to 1.6.1 image editor released desktop mac deals news & opinion mac mini 'too expensive' by pc standards pc authority's darien graham-smith deems the 2010 mac mini a likable,  well-engineered machine - "front-room friendly" with its stylish  aluminum casing, cool running, and near silence - but declares it not worth  anywhere near the asking price.
keysets that support backwards compatibility includes aionô, world of warcraft: wrath of the lich king, and starcraft ii: wings of liberty.
the steelseries shift keysets will  be sold separately for $24.99 / ¤24.99.
while attendees could certainly learn to use accordance better as in a training seminar, the users conference was chance to see a variety of specialized presentations on numerous topics.
before, users would need to know which bible study site offered any given translation in order to find the correct version of scripture they wanted.
check out our product page for further  details about compatibility.
users will also appreciate links available in the small header bar above  the final bible passage display that allow users to immediately email or tweet  the bible passage being viewed using wordof.
trying an old testament passage, it showed hebrew transliterated into  roman text, not hebrew text.
available as a free software update, pixelmator 1.6.1 adds aperture support, an improved photo browser palette, a revamped stroke feature, bug fixes, and more.
bible readers  can now get to the passage and translation they want in an instant with the  launch of wordof.
[editor's note: when i used the link, it didn't display anything in greek.
gd offers users more translations  since it forwards users to more than one bible website based on the translation  requested.
gd link: godvertiser.com onyx 2.1.8 released pr: a new version of your editor's favorite mac os x system  maintenance app, freeware onyx, is available.
named for the ability to alter its appearance and functionality  through interchangeable keysets, the steelseries shift brings gamers advanced  customization capabilities that improve the way they approach, experience, and  master their game.
all prices are in us dollars unless otherwise noted.
we allow and encourage links to any public page as long as the linked page does not appear within a frame that prevents bookmarking it.
the bar and pad lock keys  allow additional layers of mapping on the f and num pad keys that can be  utilized in games or in daily applications.
a  study conducted by the university of alabama at birmingham school of optometry  found that there is a direct correlation between proper vision correction and  worker productivity.
pixelmator 1.6.1 is a free update for current pixelmator users.
users simply have to type inwordof.gd/ and the scripture verse or passage they are searching for.
letters may be edited for length, context, and to matchhouse style.
entire low end mac website copyright ©1997-2012 bycobweb publishing, inc. unless otherwise noted.
lens powers  offered start at +1.50 through +3.00.
so http://wordof.gd/john3:16web would bring up the world english bible translation  on a website that offers that specific translation without any prerequisite  knowledge of which website offers which translation.
for example,http://wordof.gd/john3:16 would immediately bring up john 3:16 in the niv (the default translation offered) on a major bible website.
named for the ability to alter its appearance and functionality through interchangeable keysets, the steelseries shift brings gamers advanced customization capabilities that improve the way they approach, experience, and master their game.
the patent-pending lens has an antiglare coating that reduces digital glare and provides increased visual comfort and acuity.
additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks and are hereby acknowledged.
new in version 2.1.8 (requires os x 10.6.x): link: onyx downloads (different versions for os x10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5, and 10.6) pr:
the log bash is not deleted anymore from the automation panel managing messages improved help improved, updated and reindexed link: onyx downloads (different versions for os x10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5,  and 10.6) pixelmator to 1.6.1 image editor released pr: the pixelmator team has released pixelmator 1.6.1, an update of  the revolutionary gpu-powered image editing tool that provides everything  needed to create, edit, and enhance still images.
the base of the shift and the new shift keysets are all made with premium  plastic and finishes for a superior look and feel.
"spanish" is the latest addition to the various translations available.
link: apple mac mini, slimmer, likeable, but too expensive highlights from the 2010 accordance bible software users conference this lamp's rick mansfield reports that the first-ever accordance users  conference, which met from september 24-25.
the steelseries shift and shift keysets are forward and backward compatible  with steelseries zboard and zboard keysets.
the revamped stroke feature delivers significant quality enhancements for  outlining selections or layers using color.
more translations are being added quarterly.
join us on facebook.
the current list of all translations and abbreviations is available at the wordof.
the patent-pending lens also has an antiglare coating that reduces the digital glare emitted from the average computer screen, thus providing the user increased visual comfort and acuity.
for price quotes and advertising information, please contact at backbeat media (646-546-5194).
the australian dollar is currently worth 3% less than the us dollar.
dk] to make it as easy as possible for the end-user, the wordof.
built from the ground up on a combination of open source and mac os x technologies, pixelmator features powerful selection, painting, retouching, navigation, and color correction tools, and layers-based image editing, gpu-powered image processing, color management, automation, and transparent hud user interface for work with images.
the new keyboard was constructed from ground  up with high-quality, strong materials that add durability and functionality.
the increased use of computers and digital devices are taking a toll on the nation's eye health.
computer eyed's computer glasses come in eight fashionable frame styles.
also a 'terrifying tren' at apple,  memory prices approaching rock bottom, sharemouse software kvm for macs and  windows, and more.
the timing of the conference also coincided with the release of accordance version 9, and the upcoming ios version of accordance which was publicly demonstrated for the first time.
also grandpa's ipad, the windows 8  threat, new handsfree ipad stand, selling iphoto for ios, and more.
before, users would need to know which bible study site  offered any given translation in order to find the correct version of scripture  they wanted.
and if a user wanted to use a link elsewhere to that specific passage being viewed, they can easily copy/paste a properly formatted url shortcut also presented in the header bar.
"spanish" is the  latest addition to the various translations available.
gd doesn't use the mac's installed greek and hebrew fonts.
publisher's note: i discovered years ago (after graduating to bifocals) how useful it is to have computer glasses when you spend a lot of time in front of the computer.
the optically designed bifocal computer glasses correct for both midrange (computer) and close (reading/keyboard) vision.
the web app works in a single step using any web browser address bar.
so http://wordof.gd/john3:16web would bring up the world english bible translation on a website that offers that specific translation without any prerequisite knowledge of which website offers which translation.
recent news roundups end of mobileme approaching, beating expensive printer ink, commodore  amiga mini intro, and more, 2012.03.30.
the vision council of america estimates that more than 10  million americans suffer from vision problems related to computer usage.
the steelseries shift has an msrp of $89.99/ ¤89.99 and includes the  shift base, and the standard qwerty keyset.
the solution is to download the zipped  slgreek and slhebrew fonts fromhttp://www.searchgodsword.org/fonts/, unzip them  (double-clicking did not work; i had to "open with" stuffit  expander), and double-click each font, which launches typebook.
link: clamxav 2.0.7 anti-virus: updated engine; better install, updating link: clamxav 2.0 public beta pr: have you ever tried to look up a specific translation of a bible verse, but it wasn't available on your favorite bible website?
it is published by kenny jahng, founder and ceo of big  click syndicate llc - a strategic marketing and social media  consultancy/coaching company based in new jersey.
also seagate achieves 1 terabit per square inch  hard drive storage, high-end verix laptop ships with linux, and intel's  ultrabook temptations.
the improved photo browser palette in pixelmator not only makes it easy to browse the iphoto library, but also offers quick access to the aperture library, projects, albums, smart albums, and folders as well as access to photobooth-taken images and predefined custom folders.
the steelseries shift and shift keysets are forward and backward compatible with steelseries zboard and zboard keysets.
the current list of all  translations and abbreviations is available at the wordof.
graham-smith says apple's claim to using "the latest intel core 2 duo processors" in the mini is misleading, since the core 2 duo is last-generation intel chip technology, and says the the processor upgrade option to a faster 2.66 ghz core 2 duo is "a rip-off" with the difference in retail price for the faster silicon being around aus$100 - but with apple charging aus$210.
ipad, ipod, iphone, and apple tv news is covered in the ios news review.
you can check out the new steelseries shift online.
this is because wordof.
while attendees could certainly learn to use  accordance better as in a training seminar, the users conference was chance to  see a variety of specialized presentations on numerous topics.
we don't collect personal information unless you explicitly provide it.
the optically  designed bifocal computer glasses correct for both midrange (computer) and  close (reading/keyboard) vision.
don't install parallels to play poker online!
a study conducted by the university of alabama at birmingham school of optometry found that there is a direct correlation between proper vision correction and worker productivity.
[editor's note: when i used the link, it didn't display anything in  greek.
additionally, spaces and colons,  typically not valid in urls, are automatically converted to the appropriate  characters on the fly.
recognizing that there was a growing need to provide high quality,  affordable, ready-made eye protection for the millions of computer users,  computer eyed, a division of vision concepts international, developed a line of  innovative optical quality computer glasses that correct for both computer  vision, (midrange,18" to 30" from object) and reading/keyboard  vision, (close, 8" to 12" from object).
new in version 2.1.8 (requires os x 10.6.x): onyx can be run from a non-admin account vertical/horizontal display the buttons on the itunes 10 window enable/disable itunes store in itunes enable/disable the high contrast mode in itunes hungarian translation added bug corrected in the info panel the log bash can be individually deleted (clean > logs)
home | deals | tech specs | articles | news | groups | software | support |news feed | #lowendmac compiled by charles moore and edited by dan knight - 2010.10.01 short link: http://bit.ly/duwc9q macbook, powerbook, ibook, and other portable computing is covered in the 'book review.
the solution is to download the zipped slgreek and slhebrew fonts fromhttp://www.searchgodsword.org/fonts/, unzip them (double-clicking did not work; i had to "open with" stuffit expander), and double-click each font, which launches typebook.
gd doesn't use the mac's  installed greek and hebrew fonts.
share follow low end mac on twitter join low end mac on facebook typestyler 11 is now in the mac app store!!
pixelmator 1.6.1 is a free update  for current pixelmator users.
recognizing that there was a growing need to provide high quality, affordable, ready-made eye protection for the millions of computer users, computer eyed, a division of vision concepts international, developed a line of innovative optical quality computer glasses that correct for both computer vision, (midrange,18" to 30" from object) and reading/keyboard vision, (close, 8" to 12" from object).
trying an old testament passage, it showed hebrew transliterated into roman text, not hebrew text.
macsurfer cult of mac shrine of apple macintouch myapplemenu infomac the mac observer accelerate your mac retromaccast pb central macwindows the vintage mac museum deal brothers dealmac mac2sell mac driver museum jag's house system 6 heaven system 7 today the pickle's low-end mac faq amazon.com the itunes store pc connection express gainsaver parallels desktop for mac ebay all of our advertising is handled by backbeat media.
you can check out the new  steelseries shift online.
how  useful it is to have computer glasses when you spend a lot of time in front of  the computer.
link: computer eyed steelseries shift interchangeable keyset gaming keyboard pr: steelseries has announced their new steelseries shift gaming  keyboard.
one free itune from  pepsi - 06:
gd web app  recognizes most common abbreviations for books of the bible as well.
pixelmator 1.6.1 is available for $59.
users can then program advanced capabilities in  multiple layers per key.
the 3-year-old macbook had some cracks.
additional hardware features include: gold plated audio-out and microphone-in 3.5mm ports 2 usb 2.0 ports, including 1 powered led indicators to alert when profiles and functions are active onboard memory allows users to easily record up to 3 layers of on-the-fly  macros at the top of the steelseries shift base and have access to instant  media controls on the left side of the keyboard.
"most people don't know that they are using their midrange vision when viewing a computer,"says optician lester frankel, but by wearing eyeglasses designed to correct for midrange vision, visual discomfort will be eliminated.
the steelseries shift has an msrp of $89.99/ ¤89.99 and includes the shift base, and the standard qwerty keyset.
gd is a web project of godvertiser.com, which is a resource site for pastors and ministry leaders who want to learn about effective church marketing in today's environment.
gd web app recognizes most common abbreviations for books of the bible as well.
other changes in pixelmator 1.6.1 include improvements for save-for-web feature, minor user interface and performance improvements, and several bug fixes.
computer eyed's over the counter bifocal computer readers are affordable, fashionable, and prevent the symptoms of computer vision syndrome.
the new keyboard was constructed from ground up with high-quality, strong materials that add durability and functionality.
the revamped stroke feature delivers significant quality enhancements for outlining selections or layers using color.
every keyset is uniquely designed in cooperation with game publishers and configured with input from expert players to establish an intuitive command setup and predefined game mods for games of all types.
users can then program advanced capabilities in multiple layers per key.
link: highlights from the 2010 accordance bible software users conference pr: computer eyed introduces high quality, affordable, over the counter computer glasses that prevent the irritated eyes and upper back and neck pain that is associated with computer or digital device use.
the  advantage is time savings, urls that won't break across multiple lines in some  email readers, and easy to recognize urls.
every key on the steelseries shift can be customized; more than just  macros, players can record a sequence of actions with delays and then map that  sequence to a single key.
&lt;script language="javascript"  src="http://bullseye.backbeatmedia.com/bullseye/adserver/270/192/viewjscript?pool=266&amp;type=13&amp;pos=21&amp;zone=5000&amp;redirect=aj"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;  &lt;noscript&gt;&lt;a  href="http://adserver1.backbeatmedia.com/servlet/ajrotator/270/192/clickcgi?pos=21&amp;zone=5000"&gt;&lt;img  src="http://bullseye.backbeatmedia.com/bullseye/adserver/270/192/viewcgi?pool=266&amp;type=13&amp;pos=21&amp;zone=5000&amp;redirect=aj"  border="0"&gt;&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/noscript&gt; home | deals | tech specs | articles | news | groups | software | support  |news feed | #lowendmac mac news review mac mini too expensive?, $40 computer bifocals, best free mac antivirus  app gets better, and more this week's apple and desktop mac news compiled by charles moore and edited by dan knight - 2010.10.01 short link: http://bit.ly/duwc9q macbook, powerbook, ibook, and other portable computing is covered in the  'book review.
additionally, spaces and colons, typically not valid in urls, are automatically converted to the appropriate characters on the fly.
this sounds like the next best thing to prescription computer glasses, and at a very reasonable price.
the steelseries shift keysets will be sold separately for $24.99 / ¤24.99.
it is published by kenny jahng, founder and ceo of big click syndicate llc - a strategic marketing and social media consultancy/coaching company based in new jersey.
also addressing problems with the lion recovery  partition, thunderbolt should become standard on pcs in 2013, and more.
more macs left behind by developer preview 2 of os x 10.8 mountain lion,  simon royal, mac spectrum, 2012.03.27.
gd bible linker also supports interlinear display when the url  includes eitherhebrew or greek at the end of the url.
for more details, see ourterms of use.
more links in our archive.
more in the mac news review index.
as we bring the steelseries shift to market, we are continuing to work with the best developers and publishers in the games industry to offer player's unique layouts and functionalities that will enhance their entire gaming experience."
thanks for 30 strange years - class action madness - 1 keyboard and  mouse to rule them all - 08:
to buy from the mac app storeclick here now!!
the base of the shift and the new shift keysets are all made with premium plastic and finishes for a superior look and feel.
with three height levels, extra wide feet, and a wrist rest that include rubber inserts to prevent slipping, users are able to choose what feels most comfortable for their preferences.
system requirements, as well as a free 30-day  pixelmator trial and more information about pixelmator can be found at  pixelmator's website.
link: steelseries shift software clamxav, best free mac antivirus app, better than ever fairer platform declares clamxav 2.0.7 the "best (free) av software  for the mac" and reports that, since being completely rewritten in  objective c, the free clamxav mac os x antivirus application is "pretty  darned fast and updated with reassuring frequency," and developer mark  allen has announced the release of clamxav 2.0.7, which deals with some bugs  but also brings updated functionality to the table.
link: pixelmator link: moore's review of pixelmator 1.6 nucleus on pbcentral
link: highlights from the 2010 accordance bible software users conference products & services $40 optically designed otc computer bifocals can prevent eyestrain and  related aches and pains pr: computer eyed introduces high quality, affordable, over the  counter computer glasses that prevent the irritated eyes and upper back and  neck pain that is associated with computer or digital device use.
tips on  troubleshooting, a memory surprise, replacing home page, accomodating retina  displays, ram disks, and more.
recent deals best power mac g4 deals best apple tv deals best 17" powerbook g4 deals best time capsule deals
thinner 15" macbook pro may be in production, battery status app on  sale, and more, 2012.03.23.
pastors and ministry leaders can now create links to specific verses or passages on the fly in their emails, facebook posts, or twitter messages confidently without having to go to a bible website, look up the scripture, copy the url, and use a url shortening service liketinyurl.com or bit.ly.
miscellaneous updates, dan knight, mac musings, 2012.03.27.
link: pixelmator link: moore's review of pixelmator 1.6 nucleus on  pbcentral desktop mac deals for more deals on current and discontinued 'books, see our 13" macbook  and macbook pro, macbook air, 15" macbook pro, 17" macbook pro,  12" powerbook g4, 15" powerbook g4, 17" powerbook g4, titanium  powerbook g4, ibook g4, powerbook g3, and ibook g3 deals.
for example,http://wordof.gd/john3:16 would immediately  bring up john 3:16 in the niv (the default translation offered) on a major  bible website.
graham-smith says apple's claim to using "the latest intel core 2 duo  processors" in the mini is misleading, since the core 2 duo is  last-generation intel chip technology, and says the the processor upgrade  option to a faster 2.66 ghz core 2 duo is "a rip-off" with the  difference in retail price for the faster silicon being around aus$100 - but  with apple charging aus$210.
for more deals on current and discontinued 'books, see our 13" macbook and macbook pro, macbook air, 15" macbook pro, 17" macbook pro, 12" powerbook g4, 15" powerbook g4, 17" powerbook g4, titanium powerbook g4, ibook g4, powerbook g3, and ibook g3 deals.
low end mac is an independent publication and has not been authorized, sponsored, or otherwise approved by apple inc.
"with the introduction of the steelseries shift, we're able to bring another unique and powerful gaming tool to consumers, says steelseries ceo, bruce hawver.
the optical quality frames in a variety of styles have spring hinges, stylish  detailing, and come with coordinating protective eyeglass case.
ditto for apple demanding aus$140 for a hard drive  upgrade from 320 gb to 500 gb, when you can buy a brand-new 500 gb drive retail  for less than aus$100, noting that "on paper it looks like the mac mini  should be half the price.
for example, http://wordof.gd/john3.16greek would display the greek interlinear text for john 3:16.
link: steelseries shift fairer platform declares clamxav 2.0.7 the "best (free) av software for the mac" and reports that, since being completely rewritten in objective c, the free clamxav mac os x antivirus application is "pretty darned fast and updated with reassuring frequency," and developer mark allen has announced the release of clamxav 2.0.7, which deals with some bugs but also brings updated functionality to the table.
but this new url shortcut service for bible verses lets users create direct links to any bible passage in any of 30+ translations on the fly.
the australian dollar is currently worth 3% less than the us  dollar.
this number is for advertising only.