the  diary/journal allows you to easily create, edit and maintain daily journal  entries, without the risk of other people being able to read your personal  experiences, thoughts and ideas.
then press thesave button to save the list of  clues.
managing your documents the document popup menu (see figure 6 below)  is used to select from the documents you have available for editing.
even if a hacker manages to access the data files which store your information, they cannot be read without the master password or by using 'master password recovery'.
an example of a poor clue is, 'who is my best  friend?'.
all your information is protected by highly secure 896-bit encryption, and the only time this information is in a form which can be easily accessed is when you are running pc-mac securejournal.
you can also activate this function to protect your information when you are temporarily away from the computer.
you should use clues which have very exact, explicit answers, which  will never change.
the master password setup dialog setting up master password recovery this powerful and unique  feature of pc-mac securejournal allows you to recover elegantly if you ever  forget your master password.
for example,  'yukonmoose597' is a good master password since it combines two unusual words  and includes numbers as well.
since days which have a journal entry are highlighted in green, it's easy to see which days have journal entries and which days you have missed in the month.
any  number of clues can be used, so you can make the recovery system at least as  secure as the master password itself - the more clues used, the better the  security.
to remove a clue, select it in the list and press the remove clue button.
if you  cannot remember either the master password or the answers to the questions for  master password recovery (ie.
to create a new document, enter it's name in the  textbox and press thenew document button - the new document will be created,  it's name added it to thedocument popup menu, and the main text area made ready  for you to edit.
if you have forgotten your master password, press thekey button to begin  master password recovery.
the master password recovery dialog simply enter the answer to each question in the answer textbox and press the next >> button.
to select a different day, click on it in the calendar.
selecting a document in the popup menu will load it from disk and display it in the main text area, ready for editing.
if you can't recover, you should quit pc-mac securejournal and move the  pc-mac securejournal preferences folder (see thefaq) to a safe place on your  hard disk (such as a backup folder) and then run pc-mac securejournal again.
a black rectangle will be drawn around it to show it is selected.
a resize button allows you to quickly maximize the size of the main  editing area auto-saves the currently edited document or journal entry every five  minutes windows 95/98/nt/2000/me/xp, macos x and macos classic versions compatible to macos from system 8.1 to macos x 10.2 (jaguar) security considerations pc-mac securejournal was designed  from the ground up with security in mind.
you may enter what you think is the correct answer, but it may not be what  you originally entered).
from there, you can re-familiarize yourself with your  master password or change it to something else.
the layout of the main window as soon as you launch pc-mac  securejournal and enter your master password (if you have set one), the main  window will be displayed (seefigure 4 below).
if master password recovery has been set up, thekey button will also be visible.
make any changes you wish and then press theupdate clue button to  update the clue in the list.
for example, 'what was my puppy's name when i was 6?' is a good clue, because it is something you will probably never forget and which very few people would know.
how to use the daily journal the monthly calendar is used to manage  your journal entries (seefigure 5 below).
the time/date stamp button inserts the current time and date into your document.
on the other hand, if you have set up master password recovery, you just need to answer some simple questions to get back to the main screen.
the journal is sleek, fast and efficient, even with years of daily journal  entries automatically saves any changes you make to documents and journal entries clearly highlights the current day of the month in the full-month calender
today's date), whilst all other dates are drawn in black.
the great thing about pc-mac  securejournal is that you only have to enter your master password, and then all  your important data becomes conveniently accessible.
the monthly calendar when pc-mac securejournal is launched, the current day's journal entry will  be opened immediately and made ready for you to edit.
to add a new clue, enter the question in the question textbox and the answer in theanswer textbox.
from there, you can re-familiarize yourself with your master password or change it to something else.
whilst you are editing a journal entry, your updated text will also be  auto-saved every five minutes.
it would be very sad if you spent considerable time and effort writing a diary/journal or editing private notes and then lost them due to a hard disk crash or similar catastrophe.
the journal is designed to be sleek, fast and efficient, even with years of  daily journal entries.
if you get the master password wrong, you can try  again.
to change the month displayed,  press thenext month or previous month buttons.
when you launch pc-mac securejournal (and have set a master password), you will see the dialog infigure 2 displayed.
the minimize button allows you to use the most of your screen space by  hiding the calender and document controls.
the line separator button inserts a line of dashes into your document, and can be used to separate sections of text.
thekey button under the document controls allows you to set the master password and enter the master password recovery questions and answers.
you will find the journal entry will be deleted (as indicated by  the removal of the green highlighting for that date).
how to use the daily journal the monthly calendar is used to manage your journal entries (seefigure 5 below).
this dialog will be displayed when you press thekey button on the main window.
avoid floppy disks, unless you are desperate - they have very  limited capacity and are unreliable.
choosing a master password
the time/date stamp button inserts the current time and date into your  document.
it would be very sad if you spent considerable  time and effort writing a diary/journal or editing private notes and then lost  them due to a hard disk crash or similar catastrophe.
if you can't remember the answer to  a particular question, think about it for a while before trying again.
whilst you are editing a document, your updated text will also  be auto-saved every five minutes.
the main window the four buttons on the left, under the status message (from left to right)  are theminimize button, the display lock-out button, the line separator button  and thetime/date stamp button.
the line separator button inserts a line of dashes into your document, and  can be used to separate sections of text.
this function helps prevent someone from walking by your  computer and reading your notes whilst you are editing them.
the current day-of-the-month is also drawn in red (ie.
the main window the four buttons on the left, under the status message (from left to right) are theminimize button, the display lock-out button, the line separator button and thetime/date stamp button.
you also need never worry about saving your data to disk, as you would with a word processor - this is all done automatically by pc-mac securejournal.
to update a clue, select it in the list and it will be placed in the textboxes.
after you have added all the clues you want to add, press thesave button to save the list of clues.
the month is formatted in such a way that it shows the day-of-the-week of each day.
this folder is  in the 'preferences' folder inside the 'library' folder in your user folder on  macos x, in the 'preferences' folder inside the 'system' folder on macos  classic, in the 'winnt' folder in windows 2000, and in the 'windows' folder in  windows 9.x.
an example of a poor clue is, 'who is my best friend?'.
if you cannot remember either the master password or the answers to the questions for master password recovery (ie.
your master password will now be cleared and all your previous data will be safely stored away in case you remember enough information to recover.
the month is formatted in such a  way that it shows the day-of-the-week of each day.
with pc-mac securejournal, the master password is the only password you need to remember, so it is a good idea to make it reasonably long and include some numbers.
the monthly calendar when pc-mac securejournal is launched, the current day's journal entry will be opened immediately and made ready for you to edit.
operation introduction this application contains a  highly-secure document editor and diary/journal.
pressing the button once hides the controls, pressing it again reveals the controls.
the display lock-out button (also activated by pressing the esc key on your  keyboard) instantly makes the main window invisible and displays the master  password dialog.
even if a hacker manages to access the data files which store  your information, they cannot be read without the master password or by using  'master password recovery'.
special note: to remove the journal entry for a particular date, click on it in the calendar (to load it from disk), delete it's text in the main text editing area and then select a different day.
if the key button is not visible, it means  that master password recovery has not been set up and is not available.
the master password setup dialog setting up master password recovery this powerful and unique feature of pc-mac securejournal allows you to recover elegantly if you ever forget your master password.
this folder is in the 'preferences' folder inside the 'library' folder in your user folder on macos x, in the 'preferences' folder inside the 'system' folder on macos classic, in the 'winnt' folder in windows 2000, and in the 'windows' folder in windows 9.x.
on the other hand, if you have set up  master password recovery, you just need to answer some simple questions to get  back to the main screen.
this function helps prevent someone from walking by your computer and reading your notes whilst you are editing them.
when you  launch pc-mac securejournal (and have set a master password), you will see  the dialog infigure 2 displayed.
if you have forgotten your master password, press thekey button to begin master password recovery.
then press the add clue button to add it to the list.
the great thing about pc-mac securejournal is that you only have to enter your master password, and then all your important data becomes conveniently accessible.
one which is not  highlighted in green on the calendar), a journal entry for the day will be  created automatically when you start typing.
to select a different font type, use the font menu on the menu bar.
to delete a document, select it from the document popup menu and then press thedelete document button (as a precaution, you will be asked to confirm the deletion).
on the left is the monthly  calendar used to manage journal entries, and on the right are the controls for  managing documents.
to display the master password setup dialog (shown above in figure 1),  press thekey button on the main window.
thekey button under the document controls allows you to set  the master password and enter the master password recovery questions and  answers.
whilst you are editing a journal entry, your updated text will also be auto-saved every five minutes.
the current  day-of-the-month is also drawn in red (ie.
with the knowledge that other  computer users and internet hackers will never be able to read them.
to delete a document, select it from the document popup  menu and then press thedelete document button (as a precaution, you will be  asked to confirm the deletion).
the enter master password dialog enter your master password and press the enter button to display the main  pc-mac securejournal window.
this is useful if you want to timestamp your journal entries during the day or if you want to place a time/date stamp into your documents.
entering your master password
whenever you select a date in the calendar, create a new document, select a different document, or quit pc-mac securejournal, any document you have open will be saved.
one which is not highlighted in green on the calendar), a journal entry for the day will be created automatically when you start typing.
pressing the button once hides the  controls, pressing it again reveals the controls.
for example, 'what was my puppy's name when i was 6?' is a  good clue, because it is something you will probably never forget and which  very few people would know.
if you can't remember the answer to a particular question, think about it for a while before trying again.
then press thesave button to save the list of clues.
on the left is the monthly calendar used to manage journal entries, and on the right are the controls for managing documents.
it is strongly  recommended that you backup your data regularly (at least once per week) by  copying it onto backup media such as a zip disk, a networked hard disk, or  other storage.
the answer may change over time, thus affecting successful recovery (ie.
if you can't recover, you should quit pc-mac securejournal and move the pc-mac securejournal preferences folder (see thefaq) to a safe place on your hard disk (such as a backup folder) and then run pc-mac securejournal again.
the master password recovery system works by allowing you to enter a series  of personal questions (ie. clues), to which only you know the answers.
you can't recover), you cannot access the data stored inside pc-mac securejournal.
the main text editing area is located at the bottom of the window, along with the usual types of text attribute controls found in any word processor, such as font style (thebold, italic, underline and normal buttons), font size (thefont larger and font smaller buttons) and font color (the red, green, blue andblack buttons).
managing your documents the document popup menu (see figure 6 below) is used to select from the documents you have available for editing.
to select a different font type, use the font menu on the  menu bar.
the layout of the main window as soon as you launch pc-mac securejournal and enter your master password (if you have set one), the main window will be displayed (seefigure 4 below).
thus, you can rely on pc-mac securejournal to help you  maintain a secure and thorough diary of your personal experiences,  thoughts and ideas well into the future.
today's date), whilst all other  dates are drawn in black.
the document controls you also need never worry about saving your data to disk, as you would with a word processor - this is all done automatically by pc-mac securejournal.
the enter master password dialog enter your master password and press the enter button to display the main pc-mac securejournal window.
your master password will now be cleared and all your previous data will be  safely stored away in case you remember enough information to recover.
avoid floppy disks, unless you are desperate - they have very limited capacity and are unreliable.
to do a backup of your pc-mac securejournal data, include the 'pc-mac securejournal' preferences folder in your regular backup.
the journal is designed to be sleek, fast and efficient, even with years of daily journal entries.
to create a new document, enter it's name in the textbox and press thenew document button - the new document will be created, it's name added it to thedocument popup menu, and the main text area made ready for you to edit.
this is useful if you want to timestamp your journal entries during  the day or if you want to place a time/date stamp into your documents.
you should use clues which have very exact, explicit answers, which will never change.
it is strongly recommended that you backup your data regularly (at least once per week) by copying it onto backup media such as a zip disk, a networked hard disk, or other storage.
this dialog will be displayed when you press  thekey button on the main window.
to do a backup of your pc-mac securejournal data, include the 'pc-mac  securejournal' preferences folder in your regular backup.
any number of clues can be used, so you can make the recovery system at least as secure as the master password itself - the more clues used, the better the security.
if you get the master password wrong, you can try again.
whenever you select a new date in the calendar, create or open a document, or  quit pc-mac securejournal, any journal entry you have open will be saved.
the text editor supports a range of font types, styles, colors and sizes allows you to access your data by entering a simple 'master password' includes a unique password recovery system, if you forget your password
the display lock-out button (also activated by pressing the esc key on your keyboard) instantly makes the main window invisible and displays the master password dialog.
if you've selected a day without a journal entry (ie.
enter you password into the master password textbox on the master password setup dialog (see figure 1 below).
to add a new clue, enter the question in the question textbox and the  answer in theanswer textbox.
after you have added all the clues you want to add, press thesave button  to save the list of clues.
the main text editing area will also become active (if it was inactive), ready for you to input your journal entry.
setting up master password recovery is easy and is strongly recommended for all users - if you forget your master password and do not have master password recovery set up, you have permanently lost the data stored inside pc-mac securejournal!
the answer may change over time, thus affecting successful recovery  (ie.
special note: to remove the journal  entry for a particular date, click on it in the calendar (to load it from  disk), delete it's text in the main text editing area and then select a  different day.
display fast display lock-out, in case someone tries to read your notes as you  edit them easily move between months, with each month showing day-of-the-week  information automatically opens the current day's journal entry when launched, ready  for your input shows which days have journal entries, so you can easily keep your journal  up-to-date easy insertion of time-stamps and line-separators helps keep your note  format clean
all your information is protected by  highly secure 896-bit encryption, and the only time this information is in a  form which can be easily accessed is when you are running pc-mac  securejournal.
whenever you select a new date in the calendar, create or open a document, or quit pc-mac securejournal, any journal entry you have open will be saved.
your choice of master password is important in ensuring the security of your data.
security considerations pc-mac securejournal was designed from the ground up with security in mind.
to update a clue, select it in the list and it will be placed in the  textboxes.
you may enter what you think is the correct answer, but it may not be what you originally entered).
make any changes you wish and then press theupdate clue button to update the clue in the list.
the dialog shown infigure 3 will then be displayed.
to display the main window again, enter the master  password.
thus, you can rely on pc-mac securejournal to help you maintain a secure and thorough diary of your personal experiences, thoughts and ideas well into the future.
you will find the journal entry will be deleted (as indicated by the removal of the green highlighting for that date).
the document editor allows you  to create, edit and store your private notes, ideas, product designs,  commercial information, academic papers, etc.
to display the main window again, enter the master password.
after you have worked through the series of questions and  answers, the main window will be displayed.
if the key button is not visible, it means that master password recovery has not been set up and is not available.
enter you password into the master password textbox on the master password  setup dialog (see figure 1 below).
the document controls you also need never worry about saving your data to disk, as you would with  a word processor - this is all done automatically by pc-mac securejournal.
setting up master password recovery is easy  and is strongly recommended for all users - if you forget your master password  and do not have master password recovery set up, you have permanently lost the  data stored inside pc-mac securejournal!
your choice of master password is  important in ensuring the security of your data.
the minimize button allows you to use the most of your screen space by hiding the calender and document controls.
the master password recovery system works by allowing you to enter a series of personal questions (ie. clues), to which only you know the answers.
after you have worked through the series of questions and answers, the main window will be displayed.
selecting  a document in the popup menu will load it from disk and display it in the main  text area, ready for editing.
you can also  activate this function to protect your information when you are temporarily  away from the computer.
since days which have a  journal entry are highlighted in green, it's easy to see which days have  journal entries and which days you have missed in the month.
whilst you are editing a document, your updated text will also be auto-saved every five minutes.
the main text editing area will  also become active (if it was inactive), ready for you to input your journal  entry.
you can't recover), you cannot access the data  stored inside pc-mac securejournal.
for example, 'yukonmoose597' is a good master password since it combines two unusual words and includes numbers as well.
you also need never worry about saving your data to disk, as you would with  a word processor - this is all done automatically by pc-mac securejournal.
whenever you select a date in the calendar, create a new document, select a  different document, or quit pc-mac securejournal, any document you have open  will be saved.
the main text editing area is located at the bottom of the window, along  with the usual types of text attribute controls found in any word processor,  such as font style (thebold, italic, underline and normal buttons), font size  (thefont larger and font smaller buttons) and font color (the red, green, blue  andblack buttons).
a black rectangle  will be drawn around it to show it is selected.
if master password recovery has been set up,  thekey button will also be visible.
with pc-mac securejournal, the  master password is the only password you need to remember, so it is a good idea  to make it reasonably long and include some numbers.
very intuitive and easy-to-use protects your sensitive data from internet hackers, spyware, etc. encrypts your important data using very strong 896-bit encryption even if your computer is compromised, your data can remain safe keeps all your valuable notes in one central location for easy backup
notices introduction security considerations choosing a master password setting up master password recovery entering your master password the layout of the main window how to use the daily journal managing your documents backup your data!!!
to display the master password setup dialog (shown above in figure 1), press thekey button on the main window.
to change the month displayed, press thenext month or previous month buttons.
then press the add clue button to add it to the  list.