"television executives seized the idea long ago: american families value where they plant their roots.
i'd love to desect the author's methodology and see just what goes into these rankings.
best life editors used these categories and data from the u.s. census bureau, national center for education statistics, fbi, american association of museums, national center for health statistics, and american bar association to evaluate 257 cities.
full story: the 100 best places to raise a family source: best life magazine,may 21, 2008 » - login or register to post comments - email this page comments comment viewing options flat list - collapsedflat list - expanded threaded list - collapsedthreaded list - expanded date - newest firstdate - oldest first 10 comments per page30 comments per page50 comments per page 70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page select your preferred way to display the comments and click "save settings" to activate your changes.
- login or register to post comments yet another "top 100 lists" submitted by cincyplanner on wed, 05/21/2008 - 12:11.
- login or register to post comments statistics and numbers in submitted by chevychasedc on thu, 05/22/2008 - 11:12.
number of buildings over 500'?
i love how control factors such as population or metro area size aren't reflected in these lists.
- login or register to post comments what methodology?...
- is a deputy mayor for architecture and urban design in la's future - melding art with infrastructure, without breaking the bank - innovative project turns parking lot to wetland in los angeles - in interactive look at the geography of government benefits - city titles that are up for grabs - on the ethos of city branding: or, trying versus being - foursquare allows users to see (and search) into the future ultrasystems environmental environmental consultants (ceqa/nepa)
log in sign up home › news › best u.s. city to raise a family: honolulu?
best life editors used these categories and data  from the u.s. census bureau, national center for education statistics, fbi,  american association of museums, national center for health statistics, and  american bar association to evaluate 257 cities.
submitted by mightymoplanner on fri, 05/23/2008 - 07:03.
but fathers face reality when they're not in prime time.
where does your city rank?
they want to raise their children somewhere safe, where they can attend good schools with favorable student-teacher ratios, above-average test scores, and respectable budgets.
posted by: tim halbur - united states - best life magazine - cities - community / economic development - rankings 21 may 2008 -
posted by: tim halbur 21 may 2008 - 12:00pm let the controversy begin -- best life magazine named honolulu #1  on its list of "the 100 best places to raise a family", while flint,  michigan scrapes the bottom.
the cunninghams, milwaukee.
- sep 28, 2011 - top 10 cities for book worms - sep 21, 2011 - poverty aid misfocused - aug 16, 2011 - the best places to live in america - jul 15, 2008 most devastating is the compounding of the damage by creating new opportunities to the opposition for proposing and passing far-reaching "regulatory takings" legislation. ”
witness: las vegas ranked higher than portland (oregon), seattle, denver, and kansas city (mo & ks)??
plenty of museums, parks, and pediatricians also contribute to a good  quality of life, whereas multihour commutes, expensive houses, and divorcing  friends and neighbors do not.
the simpsons, springfield.
the cherry-picking that allows certain un-named authors and posters to paint spending tax dollars on public infrastructure as a wasteful boondoggle (especially if it's related to mass transit)
i could make a huge list of assumptions and conditions these lists lack to tell the reader about.
consider bookmarkingplanetizen -- the leading source of news for urban planning, design and development.
affordable housing architecture profession bicycle planning boston california redevelopment agencies census denver federal transportation bill frederick law olmsted high line house transportation bill los angeles manhattan map-21 new york new york city public health retail san francisco stormwater management super bowl tea party walkability washington d.c.
is the same type of selective use of statistics to prove that honolulu is the best place to raise a family.
what should those criteria be?
- home - news - blog - features - newsletter - about - - jobs - advertise - announce - consultants - aicp - courses - schools - store - forums - radar planetizen picks - top books - top thinkers - top websites - twitter feeds contribute - add news - add job - add announcement - add consultant categories - architecture - community / economic development - education & careers - energy - environment - government / politics - history /
plenty of museums, parks, and pediatricians also contribute to a good quality of life, whereas multihour commutes, expensive houses, and divorcing friends and neighbors do not.
" virginia beach, virginia and billings, montana rank high with honolulu, while dayton, ohio and waco, texas join flint at the bottom of the heap.
it appears you found us through a web search.
preservation - housing - humor - infrastructure - land use - landscape architecture - social / demographics - technology - transportation - urban development / real estate follow us on facebook and twitter advertise on planetizen post | search - senate transportation bill derails - why the future of sustainable cities rests with china - what do pop-up shops and homelessness reveal about urban land use?
is anyone else tired of these unscientific and poorly scaled lists that this magazine and others publish?
i doubt any reasonable amount of scientifc methodology was utilized in this slap-dash patchwork of "best places."
welcome to planetizen.
full story: the 100 best places to raise a family source: best life  magazine,may 21, 2008 login or register to post comments email this page
concentration of brick rowhomes?
i'll throw one out there - the 'ten most architecturally significant u.s. cities.'
the cosbys had brooklyn.
business magazines might use criteria related to taxes and regulation to show that houston is better than portland, while environmentally-minded or progressive publications might use such criteria as number of parks, the presence of bike trails, recycling programs, etc., to show the opposite.
philadelphia international airport was just ranked by jd power and associates as "#1 in customer satisfaction," which is a laughable notion to locals.
but wait a sec...what if the authors included "danger from volcanic eruptions" or "danger from earthquakes" as criteria?
billboards, gas stations, and fast food shacks?
read the full article, written by richard may, faicp.
http://lewyn.tripod.com/livablecities/ - no doubt flawed, but no more so than anyone else's.
density of buildings designed by famous architects?
statistics and numbers in general are abused here as they are too often elsewhere.
obviously, we need to "consider the source" when viewing ridiculous "top 100" lists such as this.
" virginia beach, virginia and billings, montana rank high with honolulu,  while dayton, ohio and waco, texas join flint at the bottom of the heap.
waterfront redevelopment more tags post | read more the aia|la mayoral candidate forums aia los angeles feb 16, 2012 revitalizing and restoring the american manufacturing economy international economic development council feb 15, 2012 urbanization and policy impacts: a view from the technology standpoint usc sol price school of public policy and usc center for sustainable cities feb 15, 2012 planetizen announces new managing editor: jonathan nettler, aicp planetizen feb 13, 2012 my storm, managing the recovery of new orleans in the wake of katrina is required reading for planners u penn press feb 13, 2012 www.flickr.com view and add to our flickr pool planetizen: urban planning, design and development network www.planetizen.com copyright © 2000 - 2010 urban insight, inc.
"television executives seized the idea long ago: american families  value where they plant their roots.
a plug for my most livable cities site submitted by michael lewyn on mon, 05/26/2008 - 07:18.
all these lists and rankings are really about the underlying goals and objectives (i.e., the agenda) of those who publish the lists.
the cunninghams,  milwaukee.
they want to raise  their children somewhere safe, where they can attend good schools with  favorable student-teacher ratios, above-average test scores, and respectable  budgets.
let the controversy begin -- best life magazine named honolulu #1 on its list of "the 100 best places to raise a family", while flint, michigan scrapes the bottom.
all rights reserved| contact | privacy | accessibility
that might change things just a bit.
apparently so... - login or register to post comments “ - richard florida on the importance of place - oct 12, 2011 - is a vibrant city best measured at night?
basically looks at crime rates, percent of people walking to work, and transit use.
are legalized prostitution, widespread gambling, the highest foreclosure rate in the nation, and quickie divorces a positive environment in which to raise a family?
even better, subscribe to our hand-crafted, free email newsletter, and we'll deliver to you the top news headlines twice each week.