with its subversive humor and delightful wit, the series has made an indelible imprint on american pop culture, and the family members have become television icons.
over the course of their two-decade run, the simpsons have won 24 emmy awards: 12 for outstanding voice-over performance, 10 for outstanding animated program and two for outstanding original main title theme music.
now the longest-running comedy in television history, the simpsons  immediately struck a chord with viewers across the country as it poked fun of  itself and everything in its wake.
january 14, 2009 kicked off "best.
with its subversive humor and delightful  wit, the series has made an indelible imprint on american pop culture, and the  family members have become television icons.
it's always better with the lights off..
over the course of their two-decade run, the simpsons have won 24 emmy awards:  12 for outstanding voice-over performance, 10 for outstanding animated program  and two for outstanding original main title theme music.
get seen wanna see your face on fox8?
meet marge the heart of springfield's favourite family meet lisa springfield's a-student and social conscience discover
on ice!, produced and directed by academy  award-nominated filmmaker morgan spurlock ("super size me," "30  days").
ever.," a year-long global 20th anniversary celebration of all things simpsons.
about the simpsons weeknights at 7.00pm
the critically praised series has been bestowed with numerous honors,  including recently receiving five emmy nominations for the 2008-2009 season.
the year will  conclude on january 14, 2010 and will feature the simpsons 20th anniversary  special – in 3-d!
check it out monday to friday 7:00pm now the longest-running comedy in television history, the simpsons immediately struck a chord with viewers across the country as it poked fun of itself and everything in its wake.
the critically praised series has been bestowed with numerous honors, including recently receiving five emmy nominations for the 2008-2009 season.
celebrity apprentice the circus is back in town..
ever.," a year-long  global 20th anniversary celebration of all things simpsons.
in the special, spurlock will examine the cultural phenomenon of  the simpsons in his distinctive and innovative style.
pretty little liars who said honesty was the best policy?
play date or ditch love could be just a click away...
meet marge the heart of springfield's favourite family meet lisa springfield's a-student and social conscience © foxtel management pty limited 2011site by deepend
dating in the dark australia
get prizes you know how mama always said nothing in life is free?
in the special, spurlock will examine the cultural phenomenon of the simpsons in his distinctive and innovative style.
american idol the biggest show on earth...
the year will conclude on january 14, 2010 and will feature the simpsons 20th anniversary special – in 3-d!
on ice!, produced and directed by academy award-nominated filmmaker morgan spurlock ("super size me," "30 days").