last night’s episode ‘the devil wears nada’ had a total of 9.04 million viewers.
also the level of detail that is now in episodes, like the backgrounds etc really adds something new.
it was a great episode too, though carl was too harsh to homer –  reminds me of how harsh paul is to barry in chucklevision reply homermarge 17 november 2009 at 3:36 pm # awesome ratings, awesome episode!
reply brilliant lets keep it over 9 mil get it back to 10 mil and we will finally see simpsons beating family guy again….
this was fresh episode after almost half a month… anyway, we will see if this high rate trend will continue in the next few episodes, my highest hopes…reply good episode.
it’s surely one of the best (if not the best) episode in new season.
reply awesome. season 21 is shaping up to be a great.
impressed, thought it was going to be simply  downhill for a little while.
the simpsons figures were helped by the overrun of the preceding football match but kept it on top for the night.
the cleveland show followed with 7.01 million viewers, while a usually-dominant family guy had 8.28 million viewers at 9:00 (yes, it was a new episode too).
reply santos l. halper 17 november 2009 at 12:39 pm #
i say we be glad both  shows are doing great
a new episode titled “pranks and greens” airs next sunday night.
first what you need to know is that between simpsons and family guy have been a great competition since the family guy started as a show on fox.
reason for that is surely cause f.g. made simpsons ratings much lower, they literally took over over 1/4 (or even more) of old viewers from the simpsons.
but it’s a friendly competition
this website, it's owners, and any content on this site is not authorized by fox.
view results | polls archiveloading ...
i hope that rates are not this high just because simpsons made a little two-week break.
sherlock holmes had his dr. moriarty, mountain dew has its mellow  yellow, even maggie has that baby with the one eyebrow.”
reply nicolas 22 november 2009 at 2:16 pm # i finally saw this episode today, and it’s really no wonder why it  had so many viewer-
really happy that f.g lost to simpsons much better ratings that last season great site!reply yeah!
but it’s a friendly competition  i’d hope reply eximius 19 november 2009 at 8:23 am # sex sells!
everyone acts like it is a damn football game on here.
carl hasn’t changed that much.
i say we be glad both shows are doing great so they will be on for years to come.
an odd little hike back up the ratings scales isn’t it?
why is it important for the simpsons to beat family guy?
i’m very  happy with this numbers, and i’m so glad that simpsons finally got higher  rates that the family guy!!!
i don’t think that f.g. is bad show (although i don’t like kind  of art, or the way gags are presented in show), but i surely like simpsons  much, much more, and i can say that i’m really proud on the simpsons when  i see that their ratings are better than family guys.
and just to note, i wish all the luck to family guy, but as long as they  are direct competition to the simpsons, i can’t say that i would like to  see them in the air instead of simpsons… reply fliz 18 november 2009 at 5:37 pm # @pleco – just like lisa said in 1f18, “everybody needs a  nemesis.
toby 16 november 2009 at 9:53 pm #
nbc was the winner in both categories.
its suspect santos, ways youre just beginning to suspect.
please rate the devil wears nada below, if you haven’t already: what do you rate the devil wears nada?
sherlock holmes had his dr. moriarty, mountain dew has its mellow yellow, even maggie has that baby with the one eyebrow.”
copyright © 1997 - 2010 simpsons channel.
this was fresh episode after almost half a month… anyway, we will see if this high rate trend will continue in the next few  episodes, my highest hopes… reply pleco 18 november 2009 at 3:29 am # good episode.
it will stabilize ratings, and hopefully will make real break through  after few not-so-great seasons, just what this show needs!
this makes me so happy.
reply hands up who thinks it was high just because of the opportunity to see marge as a calendar girl?
etc really adds something new.
reply santos l. halper 16 november 2009 at 10:27 pm # pretty good episode.
so they will be on for years to come.
season 21 is shaping up to be a great.
hope they’ll stay above family guy reply dominic 17 november 2009 at 3:43 pm # brilliant news!
carl hasn’t changed that  much.
in ways you’re just beginning to realise.
an odd little hike back up  the ratings scales isn’t it?
reply ranok 16 november 2009 at 10:27 pm # awesome.
i agree with mr tim, carl was harsh to  homer.
it was a great episode too, though carl was too harsh to homer – reminds me of how harsh paul is to barry in chucklevisionreply awesome ratings, awesome episode!
fox was third overall for the night and second among the 18 – 49 demographic.
impressed, thought it was going to be simply downhill for a little while.
reply tyler 17 november 2009 at 12:26 am # its suspect santos, ways youre just beginning to suspect.
it will stabilize ratings, and hopefully will make real break through after few not-so-great seasons, just what this show needs!reply the episode was ok not the best so far but still ok my overall score is 7.7/10 name (required) mail (will not be published) (required) website rate: them, robot view results | polls archiveloading ...
i suspect awesome ratings, sound stuff.
and just to note, i wish all the luck to family guy, but as long as they are direct competition to the simpsons, i can’t say that i would like to see them in the air instead of simpsons…reply @pleco – just like lisa said in 1f18, “everybody needs a nemesis.
it will make good impression on viewers to see few good episodes consecutively week by week.
—favorite joke— homer: see?
too late to edit my post.
i suspect  awesome ratings, sound stuff.
very funny episode hopefully now fox will keep going with the simpsons!
and the simpsons has family guy.
also the level of detail  that is now in episodes, like the backgrounds
reason for that is surely cause f.g. made simpsons ratings much lower, they  literally took over over 1/4 (or even more) of old viewers from the simpsons.
i hope that next episode will be as good as this one-
first what you need to know is that between simpsons and family guy  have been a great competition since the family guy started as a show on fox.
reply marbat 2 december 2009 at 1:12 pm # the episode was ok not the best so far but still ok my overall score is 7.7/10
i hope that rates are not this high just because simpsons made a little  two-week break.
reply mr tim 17 november 2009 at 1:44 pm # brilliant lets keep it over 9 mil get it back to 10 mil and we will finally  see simpsons beating family guy again….
nicolas 17 november 2009 at 3:56 pm #
i’m very happy with this numbers, and i’m so glad that simpsons finally got higher rates that the family guy!!!
it’s surely one of the best (if not the best) episode  in new season.
it will  make good impression on viewers to see few good episodes consecutively week by  week.
really happy that f.g  lost to simpsons much better ratings that last season great site!
i’m happy to hear that it beat fg.
i’d hopereply sex sells!reply i finally saw this episode today, and it’s really no wonder why it had so many viewer-
finally simpsons are back in the saddle again!
hope they’ll stay above family guyreply brilliant news!
american dad had 5.99 million viewers at 9.30pm.
this makes the episode the second highest rated this season, behind ‘bart gets a ‘z’ which had 9.32 million viewers last month.
i agree with mr tim, carl was harsh to homer.
i don’t think that f.g. is bad show (although i don’t like kind of art, or the way gags are presented in show), but i surely like simpsons much, much more, and i can say that i’m really proud on the simpsons when i see that their ratings are better than family guys.
reply nicolas 18 november 2009 at 3:57 pm # @pleco-
reply gaulty 17 november 2009 at 1:35 pm # hands up who thinks it was high just because of the opportunity to see  marge as a calendar girl?
posted by: adam 16 responses to “ratings: the devil wears nada”
well done!reply pretty good episode.