it now contains mind-numbingly improbable events passed off as reality - remember the racing horse jockeys who were really leprechauns?
this show needs to end, and fast.
while the author of this piece serves some valid food for thought, i would like to hear his musings on how well the tracy ullman show "simpsons shorts" stack up against any of the recent episodes.
the simpsons is the best show in the world!!!!
that's what you think jerk!!!!
national college advertising and marketing | privacy policy (9/9/09) |terms of use (9/9/09) content submission agreement (8/23/07) | copyright compliance policy (4/27/09) | rss terms of use advertisement poll do you partake in digital spring cleaning of your computer?
continued... page 1 of 3  next > article tools viewing comments 1 - 10 of 28
that was not nice of you!!!!
one of the few hilarious jokes in the  past few years was the song "they'll never stop 'the simpsons,'" a  parody of "we didn't start the fire" which essentially states that  the series will continue no matter how bad it becomes.
i grew up with this show, quoting the lines  from the previous night with such love and fervor, to a point where it became  annoying.
details   reply to this  comment markjones posted 11/13/04 @ 2:06 am est sorry, you're wrong.
no, i just search for stuff submit vote view results advertisement - home - blogs - - news - ed-op - arts & entertainment - sports - about us - triangle staff - contact us - advertising - distribution & subscriptions - drexel university © the triangle powered by college publisher this site is powered by: is a member of the sponsored by:
of course, at the time, i scoffed.
i grew up with this show, quoting the lines from the previous night with such love and fervor, to a point where it became annoying.
as the series nears 350  episodes and sixteen seasons, i fear that they may have been more serious than  they were letting on.
details reply to this comment karen_a_lore karen_a_lore posted 11/13/04 @ 9:40 am est i would like to comment on the article that claims the simpsons should be cancelled.
(continued…) details reply to this comment maemikemae maemikemae posted 11/18/04 @ 5:18 pm est
click here to quickly login or create a free account.
that's not  possible; this show is spectacular.
(continued…) details   reply to this comment billyjoejimbob billyjoejimbob posted 12/28/05 @ 12:54 am est right on!
as time went  on, however, i came to see their point.
i know that's what you think!!
there isn't much in this article i would disagree with.
the simpsons has indeed become a cartoon, as msn slate  writer chris suellentrop called it more than a year ago.
"other" producer ian maxtone-graham?
if the author of the simpsons thought that i would of  been off air along time ago!!
those have been terrible ever  since they began, in the second season.
oh, and richard gere was there, too.
(continued…) details reply to this comment peinh002 peinh002 posted 7/01/05 @ 1:55 pm est
yes, i like to be organized
as time went on, however, i came to see their point.
triangle video section: use the arrows to select different videos.
it was a much better episode, and had incomparably better guest voices to boot (paul and linda mccartney).
that's not possible; this show is spectacular.
details    reply to this comment margesimpsonfan margesimpsonfan posted 11/12/04 @ 8:27 pm est no it doesn't!!!!!
one of the things that apparently bothers the author of that article is that the jokes made on current affairs aren't current.
i understand posting spam or other comments that are unrelated to this article will cause my comment to be flagged for deletion and possibly cause my ip address to be permanently banned from this server.
i steadfastly defended "homerpalooza," one of the episodes  sometimes touted as the beginning of the quality slip.
all well and good - if you completely missed the episode where lisa became a vegetarian under similar circumstances.
(continued…) details   reply to this  comment
(continued…) details   reply to this comment tlebret30 tlebret30 posted 11/28/04 @ 6:00 pm est
worst yet, they've recycled the plots over  and over again - remember that episode where lisa became a buddhist, much to  the chagrin of everyone before they came to tolerate her preferences.
i don't hate the simpsons, in fact i love most of the episodes through season 6, but i can't think of a single episode made since 1998 that i would ever have the desire to see again.
(continued…) details reply to this comment margesimpsonfan margesimpsonfan posted 11/12/04 @ 8:22 pm est no!!!!!
it was a  much better episode, and had incomparably better guest voices to boot (paul and  linda mccartney).
details   reply to this comment karen_a_lore karen_a_lore posted 11/13/04 @ 9:40 am est i would like to comment on the article that claims the simpsons should be  cancelled.
while the author of this piece serves some valid food for thought, i would  like to hear his musings on how well the tracy ullman show "simpsons  shorts" stack up against any of the recent episodes.
read all 28 comments karen_a_lore posted 11/12/04 @ 1:14 pm est i would like to comment on the article that claims the simpsons should be  cancelled.
i steadfastly defended "homerpalooza," one of the episodes sometimes touted as the beginning of the quality slip.
who's to blame for it?
worst yet, they've recycled the plots over and over again - remember that episode where lisa became a buddhist, much to the chagrin of everyone before they came to tolerate her preferences.
that's a far cry from the positively side-splitting status the series held as an "animated sitcom."
the simpsons has indeed become a cartoon, as msn slate writer chris suellentrop called it more than a year ago.
one of the things that apparently bothers the author of that article  is that the jokes made on current affairs aren't current.
i know the simpsons isn't nearly as good as it used to be but you shouldn't  base that on the treehouse of horror eppisodes.
(continued…) details reply to this comment tlebret30 tlebret30 posted 11/28/04 @ 6:00 pm est
the simpsons are  the best!!!!
oh, and  richard gere was there, too.
"other" producer ian  maxtone-graham?
i know  that's what you think!!
(continued…) details   reply to this comment maemikemae maemikemae posted 11/18/04 @ 5:18 pm est
i don't  hate the simpsons, in fact i love most of the episodes through season 6, but i  can't think of a single episode made since 1998 that i would ever have the  desire to see again.
the characters have become broad and  bland - homer is a gleeful ignoramus, bart is "america's bad boy,"  lisa an annoying activist.
well i grew up with the simpsons,31 yrs of age been watching them from the start & still to this day i never get tired of the simpsons weather it is a older or current show.
i know the simpsons isn't nearly as good as it used to be but you shouldn't base that on the treehouse of horror eppisodes.
often times, they waste a good ten minutes (sometimes fifteen) of an average 22-minute episode on setup alone.
details reply to this comment maemikemae maemikemae posted 11/18/04 @ 5:22 pm est also, most audiences who watch shows like that don't care as much about the quality and character development, which fox has shown by bringing back family guy instead of futurama because it got better re-run ratings and more dvd sales.
(continued…) details reply to this comment post a comment - name: (required) - email: (required) - note: email address will not be published - website: notify me of followup comments via e-mail email notify will not work because you are not currently logged in.
all well and good - if you completely missed the  episode where lisa became a vegetarian under similar circumstances.
one of the things that apparenlty bothers the author of that article  is that the jokes made on current affairs aren't current.
college media network the triangle blogs classifieds loginforums--> weather datebook archives home > entertainment the simpsons desperately deserves cancellation ian pugh issue date: 11/12/04 section: entertainment about four years ago, the first "cancel the simpsons opinion articles were released onto online periodicals.
(continued…) details   reply to this  comment peinh002 peinh002 posted 7/01/05 @ 1:55 pm est
those have been terrible ever since they began, in the second season.
that's a far cry from the positively  side-splitting status the series held as an "animated sitcom."
details reply to this comment markjones markjones posted 11/13/04 @ 2:06 am est sorry, you're wrong.
blogs classifieds loginforums--> weather datebook archives home > entertainment the simpsons desperately deserves cancellation ian pugh issue date: 11/12/04 section: entertainment print email page 1 of 3  next > about four  years ago, the first "cancel the simpsons opinion articles were released  onto online periodicals.
who's  to blame for it?
(continued…) details reply to this comment billyjoejimbob billyjoejimbob posted 12/28/05 @ 12:54 am est right on!
i can't say for sure, but one thing remains resolutely clear.
it now contains  mind-numbingly improbable events passed off as reality - remember the racing  horse jockeys who were really leprechauns?
(continued…) details    reply to this comment maemikemae maemikemae posted 11/18/04 @ 5:22 pm est also, most audiences who watch shows like that don't care as much about the  quality and character development, which fox has shown by bringing back family  guy instead of futurama because it got better re-run ratings and more dvd  sales.
margesimpsonfan margesimpsonfan posted 11/12/04 @ 8:27 pm est no it doesn't!!!!!
well i grew up with the simpsons,31 yrs of age been watching them from the  start & still to this day i never get tired of the simpsons weather it is a  older or current show.
often  times, they waste a good ten minutes (sometimes fifteen) of an average  22-minute episode on setup alone.
the characters have become broad and bland - homer is a gleeful ignoramus, bart is "america's bad boy," lisa an annoying activist.
type your comment below (html not allowed) i am not posting spam.
details reply to this comment the simpsons are the best!!!!
one of the things that apparenlty bothers the author of that article is that the jokes made on current affairs aren't current.
if the author of the simpsons thought that i would of been off air along time ago!!
one of the few hilarious jokes in the past few years was the song "they'll never stop 'the simpsons,'" a parody of "we didn't start the fire" which essentially states that the series will continue no matter how bad it becomes.
(continued…) details   reply to this comment margesimpsonfan posted 11/12/04 @ 8:22 pm est no!!!!!
est i would like to comment on the article that claims the simpsons should be cancelled.
as the series nears 350 episodes and sixteen seasons, i fear that they may have been more serious than they were letting on.
continued... page 1 of 3 next > article tools share: - facebook - blogger - del.icio.us - digg - newsvine subscribe: viewing comments 1 - 10 of 28 karen_a_lore karen_a_lore posted 11/12/04 @ 1:14 pm
as storytelling, the series has become a joke.