harms the world or the people around you?
movement? ---> change! ---> threat! ---> respond!
ok, last example… “i wish there was a way to keep my kids quiet in the back seat of the car so i wouldn’t feel like stabbing myself in the eye with a plastic spork!”
look, when you notice a cognitive dissonance in your life, accept it – don’t fight it.
what is your body telling you right now?
labels: approachability, approachable, nametagtv, rent scott's brain, scott ginsberg, unquestionable commitment [read the full post...] 1 comments share tuesday, august 05, 2008 grow creative ears, part 2
well, maybe that’s true in some cases.
what is my body telling me right now? 7.
because it’s more fun to ask how you can do it, instead of asking how it’s been done.
[read the full post...] 1 comments share tuesday, august 19, 2008 grow creative ears, part 3
and in april when we were having lunch a few hours before my workshop, we got talking about the topic of identity.
mindfulness breathing.
we had a blast, learned a lot, and enjoyed an unexpected amount of "poop in the pool" jokes.
so, anytime i take on a new project, trudge forward with a risky endeavor or discover a new way to diversify my company, i start grilling myself.
people are often stunned when i tell them i’ve actually forgotten to put on a nametag before.
and that’s just not fair to your muse.
i repeat: everything.
don’t listen to self-appointed criticizers.
the nametag manifesto -- chapter 11: the end of di... post archives - january 2003
identify the language of your own thought.
* * * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com new website go live this week?
and the concept of 'some guy in a room holding a camera,' isn’t going to cut it anymore.
consider spending some time writing out your answers to such questions as: 1.
what business could i be in?
because awareness is the first step towards mastery.
today we’re going to explore a list called22 questions to sidestep entrepreneurial atrophy.
so, think: are you inspired or disciplined?
and i realize there’s really two  ways you can answer that question: literally and metaphorically.
out in the prairie, you wait.
give clients different ways to "get" you.
you will have doubts.
it’s what customers want in an ideal world.
to figure out what new piece of material is standing by for your plucking.
if the other person is going too fast
and i’m sure their advertisers just loooooooove that!
the speed of the response is the response.
that’s what people trust.
this helps you become a better judge of which thoughts need to be shared, and which thoughts need to be shirked.
noticing the fact that you’re noticing.
perhaps i could help on a more personal, one-on-one basis.
i’m not ashamed that i’ve doubted my own commitment.
so, think: whom are you allowing to murder your creative nature?
that way you can collect you thoughts, clarify your position and speak confidently.”
listen to this: from which unusual and obscure places do you get your material?
which makes them want to continue doing business with you.
because familiar structures lead to mental laziness.
every email from every  random person whose life improved in some way as a result of reading something  i wrote.
how can i give people a portable, junior, take-home, or alternate version of me?
how can i turn this into an income stream?
make your mission more than a statement today.
avoid avoid agenda pushers.
sadly, i was unable to use any of their indoor waterpark facilities.
ceaselessly looking around, sweeping the crowd and scrutinizing the scene for things and people that don’t belong.
a good parallel is to look at the music industry.
avoid stock phrases.
that means at the airport ticket counter when the agent asks, “is this trip business or pleasure?”
what's under your fingernails?
recent posts - are you afraid to have an imagination?
*"i wish there was a digg.com that morons couldn't find so i wouldn't have to read such dim-witted remarks anymore.
it’s an unsolvable problem.
always find a way to kill two stones with one bird.
because they stop you from thinking.
for the list called, "194 books in scott's success library," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
if we wait for the mood, without endeavoring to meet it halfway, we easily become indirect and apathetic.”
just commit to returning to a certain places consistently, and a variety of places occasionally.
of course, keep in mind i always store ten spare pre-written nametags in my wallet just in case.
and that’s when you lose sight of what’s truly important.
0 comments share monday, august 04, 2008
so, here’s my advice: 1.
to which i’ve always conceded,yeah.
when in fact, it’s just the opposite.
depends on what you’re worth per hour.
to prove that a few rounds of golf or some chamber  of commerce meeting isn’t the extent of your “getting to know  you” time with clients.
in fact, you don’t need any acronyms, letters or designations after your last name.
move closer to pleasure, move further from pain.
but that’s the genius ofthe simpsons.
avoid mental censoring.
“what’s under your fingernails?”
something to make the competition think, “damn, that is pretty cool.
learn to freeze things.
save that steam for the stage.
nobody cares what you know.
in what kind of future situations could i use these learnings?
without getting out of the house, you’re just making shit up.
avoid telegraphing interest.
remember: meditation is listening.
make customers' dreams come true while simultaneously helping them avoid something frustrating.
labels: approachability, approachable, hello my name is blog, i wish there was a, nametagtv, rent scott's brain, so i wouldn't have to, the ultimate dream statement
what went right/wrong/perfectly about what just happened?
always aboutapproachability.
[read the full post...] 1 comments share wednesday, august 13, 2008
embrace your imperfect humanness!
ask yourself: “is there anyone in my life that i treat this way?”
what’s (literally) under my fingernails: 1.
stains of blue sharpie from hand-writing tens of thousands of nametags.
…so i wouldn’t have to (y)!
because i think there comes a point at which commitment can actually become a detriment.
when was the last time you reinvented yourself?
you just keep doing your art.
the key is, by eliminating (y), the customer moves away from pain and towards pleasure.
share stories, best practices and connect with a like-minded community of business professionals who stick themselves out there!
whatever the artist sees, he or she can use.
how are these issues related to each other?
calls meaning calls.
* * * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com still haven't finished that book you started in 1997?
labels: approachability, approachable, nametagtv, rent scott's brain, scott  ginsberg, ultimate secret of success
like the broom handle so i wouldn’t have to hold the dustpan.
and, writing is the basis of all wealth.
what's your favorite song lyric?
so, never stop listening.
think willie nelson, not don mclean.
what little things do you always seem to notice?
or “any final thoughts before we finish?”
so, i have this buddy named spike jones.
stains  of blue sharpie from hand-writing tens of thousands of nametags.
three words of advice:
how are you keeping your viewers' attention?
make your own badgehere.
i’m obsessed with questions.
“like the mechanic who never  really loses the oil stains under his fingernails, our work stays with us  wherever we go.
let me suggest this...
walking clears your mind, stabilizes your emotions and levels your perspective.
o you round out ideas.
work means engaging face-to-face with customers.
practice being silently attentive and letting your art be subordinate to your life.
now, contrary to frequent assumption, i was not the class clown.
notice your soundscapes.
you just need to figure out what wants to be written.
i leverage them to grow my business.
sidesteps entrepreneurial atrophy.
because sometimes, the deeper you commit to something, the more likely you are to become so wrapped up and so obsessed with idea of being (and appearing) committed …that your desire actually becomes bigger than that which you are committed to.
anticipating even the slightest movement.
customers not telling their friends about you?
with the exception ofthe simpsons, when was the last time you actually tuned in to watch the opening credits of your favorite show?
the relief they so desperately need.
it could be another hunter trying to steal your catch, or worse yet, clobber you.
o it has nothing to do with anything o if to dominate and take over conversation
" *"i wish there was a tutorial somewhere where i could learn to do this stuff on my own
the simpsons also happens to be the best example of the caveman principle in action.
pick up your copy (or a case!)right here.
don’t listen to that evil little devil of procrastination.
you let the world be your editor, adding to or subtracting from your ideas to make them better.
what did you experience today that taught you something about your work or life?
labels: approachability 2.0, brains on fire, scott ginsberg, spike jones,  what's under your fingernails [read the full post...]
what happened to me during this experience?
the sun is coming up.
if so, ask yourself if you can do it better and cooler.
how much could i be charging for this?
exact same process as question #1, except this time you’re exploiting them in the service of your customers.
rainbow cotton fibers from every content note card i’ve ever laid out on the floor.
what’s the universal human emotion/experience? third :
forget the feeling of allowing those four words to profoundly penetrate me.
- - - remember: creativity is the ultimate form of active listening.
the longer you wait to say something, the more everybody else will want to know what you’re thinking.
labels: 22 questions, approachability, approachable, really long lists, scott ginsberg, sidestep entrepreneurial atrophy
(not in an overly specific way, as you don’t want to prematurely, cognitively commit to something.)
you’re self-employed.
we’re talking about real-life, face-to-face, organic human inquiry, conversation and connection.
well, as you experience life, remember to ask yourself: 1.
and in april when we were having lunch a few  hours before my workshop, we got talking about the topic of identity.
the challenge is figuring out which questions to ask.
avoid self-satisfied contentment.
and in the words of edison, “i start where other men leave off.”
even he occasionally had a change of heart.
because nobody else does stuff like that.
this innovation process works in reverse, too.
labels: approachability, approachable, hello my name is blog, hello my name is scott, nametagtv, scott ginsberg, that guy with the nametag
for the advancement and enhancement of your creative spirit.
0 comments share monday, august 11, 2008 the caveman principle™
spot the trends in customer’s comments and figure out what that means for you.
you have clients, but you mainly interact with them via email or phone.
- how much humanity is embedded in your work?
so, when customers are replied to immediately, they feel special.
how can i make this experience useful to my fellow human beings?
over rehearsing may cause you to leave some of your best stuff in the green room.
the nametag guy in actionhere!
no movement? ---> no change.
and, as your references grow richer and deeper, so does your art.
you wear your pajamas all day.
i think ibm pioneer tom watson said it best, “good judgment comes from experience.
the interesting part:
when was the last time you questioned your own commitment?
therefore, as you experience life, remember to ask yourself: 1.
who else needs to see this?
by looking around, listening and learning first, your eventually comment will contain its maximum amount of brilliance.
is this the best use of my time right now?
it sets the stage for successful service and informs the customer how she can expect to be treated from here on in.
after all: what good is being committed if your commitment… becomes a threat to your health?
where art oozes: galleries.
and my understanding of truth changes from day to day, so, i’m sorry, but i need to stop this particular protest.
but you never over rehearse.
undertaking daily exercises like journaling, guiding writing ormorning pages will (probably) be the best way to listen to yourself.
all of these bright ideas hinge on your ability to complete the following sentence: i wish there was a/an (x)
a chill ran down my  spine.
(apparently) when i was four years old, my folks used to watch my pre-school class through a one-way mirror.
what personal skills have i not tapped into yet to add value to my customers?
now that i have this, what else does this make possible?
they will ask you questions like: “so, is art all you do?”
can’t afford the speaking fee?
here’s a list of six things (not) to listen to for maximizing creative output: 1.
*"i wish there was a depresso-meter that i could use to measure my current mental state so that i wouldn't have to deal with people asking me all the time 'what is wrong?'
(of course, this doesn’t mean plagiarism.
and experience comes from bad judgment.”
don’t listen to what everyone else is doing.
all work and no play makes jackie a dull boy … all work and no play makes jackie a dull boy … all work and no play makes… o you become more relatable.
it's pretty much the coolest place i've ever stayed at.
so, whether you’re a writer, painter, consultant – or any type of creative professional, just remember these seven words: get.
avoid hideous headlines.
we also stayed at the kalahari resort in sandusky.
here's what it's all about...
they’re divided into four main categories: 1.
o if she’s said something out of line o
friday, august 29, 2008 scott ginsberg reveals the absolute, ultimate, #1 secret of success!
if a boundary has been violated o if she’s made a gross assumption
metabolizing the strands and tendrils of so many sparkling creatures and melding them into your own reality.
how are you sidestepping entrepreneurial atrophy?
don’t listen to people who tell you to stop singing so loud.
[read the full post...] thursday, august 28, 2008
the tylenol for their headache.
but that’s a good thing.
what would most scare or piss off the competition?
and in the words of eckhart tolle, “don’t ask your mind permission to enjoy what you do.”
metallic silver residue from daily pounding on the 78 keys on  my macbook pro. 5.
listen to this: what did you extract today?
learn what (not) to listen to.
this is when money takes a back seat to equity.
it demonstrates that you value people.
like one of those secret service dudes with one hand on their gun and the other on their earpiece.
scott’s hand would always shoot up first!
labels: approachability, approachable, make customers gasp, nametag guy, nametagtv, rent scott's brain, return calls faster, scott ginsberg
learning their language.
if i were to share these lessons in a speech, what would i say? 6.
if it detours from the conversation
or, a really terrible (yet fascinating) day job, waiting tables, selling furniture or parking cars.
buy scott's new book
practice some patience.
will it make your company more competitive?
unfortunately, because video is so ubiquitous and easy to do, the bar has been raised.
is there anyone in my life that i treat this way?
if you are unable to effectively listen anymore
raw material for your art is literally infinite … as long as you’re willing to step out the front door.
you will do things that are inconsistent with what you thought you believed.
see, most meetings eventually come to a point where the leader or facilitator will say, “ok, is there anything else?”
the ultimate leverage question.
causes you to lose sight of your family?
just listen and wait for the answer.
not only is the simpsons the basis for my entire personality.
that means infusing your childlike energy into everything you do.
in that case, here’s a sampling ofdisplacement environments to test out: where people interact: yoga classes.
the caveman principle.
0 comments share monday, august 18, 2008 your hand doesn’t have to shoot up first my parents’ favorite childhood tale to tell – mainly to embarrass me, i assume – is called “the hand raiser.”
self-questioning is a powerful tool for listening to yourself.
" *"i wish there was a way to refresh our brains and wipe the slate clean
and usually, the stuff nobody else does tends to be the stuff customers love.
local farmer’s markets.
learn how to get your frontline in line!
for the reciprocation of that spirit into the souls of the people you  serve.
[read the full post...] 1 comments share friday, august 22, 2008 "is there anyone in my life that i treat this way?
labels: approachability, approachable, hello my name is blog, hello my name is scott, nametagtv, scott ginsberg
get started without knowing what the hell you’re doing *
upon observing any type of foul behavior, use it as a mirror.
* * * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com what's your approach?
by asking yourself, “is it a sound instinct or a strong impulse?”
bart’s detention chalkboard.
always about approachability.
o if it detracts from the conversation o to add in a footnote joke or one-liner clever little jokes
labels: approachability, approachable, creativity is active listening, grow creative ears, hello my name is blog, nametag guy, nametagtv, rent scott's brain ,scott ginsberg
nobody can relate to art created in a vacuum.
and let those chumps get real jobs.
" *"i wish my pump could measure my sugar reading so that i wouldn't have to worry about the cost of the glucose meter supplies."
use a multitude of channels to promote your online videos *
you just hit the fast forward button on your tivo remote, zipped through the opening montage, skipped the subsequent commercials and started the show at seven minutes past the hour.
but remember: do not dishonor your truth for the fear of appearing inconsistent.
similarly, that means going where nobody else has the guts to go.
labels: approachability, approachable, hello my name is blog, learning from your experiences, nametagtv, rent scott's brain, scott ginsberg
because obviously, they assume my answer is an immediate, “no!”
(and even he isn’t really listening to you.)
remember: writing is the basis of all wealth.
any questions on this?
she's worked too hard.
that it might destroy your big shot allure.
marry ideas with other ideas.
if i do this, will i become the best?
listen to this : are you listening and watching your initial responses?
it’s a ritual of reflection, a psychological holding environment and gateway to your inner and higher self, as julia cameron suggests inthe artist’s way.
o if she’s previously given you permission to do so o
and in the words of tchaikovsky, “a self-respecting artist must not fold his hands on the pretext that he is not in the mood.
allow the world to enter into your consciousness through your unique filter.
so, as you experience life, remember to ask yourself: 1.
take walks … with yourself.
you walk 360 degrees around it.
over time, you’ll make friends, become a regular, notice patterns and start to accumulate a rich mosaic of experiences and references.
today we’re going to focus on the latter.
no, you should not interrupt someone… o to tell your own story o
it also meansmeta noticing:
asking yourself, asking others, asking the world.
competition let’s get started… financial questions 1.
and it’s not like it takes a lot of time.
where it can be returned to a later time and picked up exactly where it left off.
every email from every random person who told me how stupid i  was, or how stupid my idea was.
when does commitment become a detriment?
after all, the goal is to support, inform, inspire and enrich your creative practice!
create online learning communities, message boards and other fan-building resources *
my commitment must be to truth, not to consistency.”
labels: adventures in nametagging, approachability, approachable, nametagtv, rent scott's brain, scott ginsberg
have you ever made a decision - just to appear consistent - while dishonoring your truth?
everything is fair game.
depends on how valuable your new “thing” is.
now that you understand the root of this concept, let’s try a few.
which is exactly why you need to work so hard at getting personally involved.
reserve your best juices, your strongest emotions and your most gorgeous extemporizations for the main event.
in the second post, we explored a list of things not to listen to for maximum creative output.
labels: approachability, approachable, hello my name is blog, nametagtv, rent scott's brain, scott ginsberg, three words of advice
so, think: how often does perfection keep you from starting?
you can take any of your most cherished toys, gadgets or products and extract their version ofthe ultimate dream statement™.
participating in the world around you as fully and actively as you possibly can.
the people you interact with and the experiences you have add new dimensions to existing thoughts.
labels: approachability, approachable, grow bigger ears, hello my name is blog, nametagtv, rent scott's brain, scott ginsberg
the uds would be: "i wish there was a way to compile all of my music onto a compact, digital storage device so i wouldn’t have to lug 100 cd’s in my car, to work and on the plane!"
for the list called, "72 superb songs on the soundtrack of scott's life," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
how can i change the rules so i can win at my own game?
average is for losers.
any of these will work!
and the floor will be yours.
schools (especially elementary).
that  means becoming involved (even if it’s just a little) in the production,  manufacturing, research, exploration and baseline development of your  company’s ideas.
every email from every random person whose life improved in some way as a result of reading something i wrote.
so, make it your new goal to return calls faster.
something that doesn’t have a structure, agenda or regimented  time limit.
writing is the great clarifier.
for the list called, "10 best books on creativity you've never heard of," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
for the list called, "100 self-consultative questions," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
is anybody else doing this now?
i still believe that consistency is far better than rare moments of greatness.
watching them in action as they gain value from your product or service so you  can more accurately report back on the posture of the masses.
all i know is, i’ve been practicing this principle whenever possible.
* * * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com ready to turn your experiences into money?
that means hanging with them.
not only is the simpsons greatest show in the history of television.
that sounds like me… “it’s like, it didn’t matter what the question was,” my dad often adds.
because they’re probably buying on price, not value.
it means capturing the essence of something and making it your own.
here are four practices to help you listen to yourself more effectively.
or are you just doing the same old stuff you did one year ago?
“well, what about you, scott?”
especially in terms of research, since google and youtube can only teach you so much.
what is another use for this failure? 11.
a job description like that can only mean one thing: you need to get the hell out of the house!
should i be charging for this?
it adds too much value to the conversation let me ask ya this...
see, that’s all writers do: they listen.
run an honest evaluation of what you bring to the table.
see, as a creative professional, getting out of the house and into the world is crucial component to supporting, enriching, inspiring and informing your art.
jointhe nametag forums!
labels: adventures in nametagging, approachability, approachable, creativity is active listening, grow creative ears, hello my name is blog, nametag guy, nametagtv, scott ginsberg
i have a huge crush on them!
well, if you’re like me and you live your daily life is based on episodes ofthe simpsons, this should be an easy question.
if you think she thinks you’re not listening
essentially, this question boils down to a new philosophy, a new paradigm and a new approach to our work.
yes, you should interrupt someone…
always think leverage.
o if she’s gotten off track
0 comments share friday, august 01, 2008 three words of advice: avoid (to read past posts in this series, check this out!)
what type of list could i immediately make my idea into?
what worked well and why?
that means getting out of your office and actually talking and listening to  the people who (really) pay your salary – the customers.
what journal does this go into? 3.
my behavior was a little different.
you have no coworkers.
i did some googling with the phrases
and regular “breaking of set” enables you to notice anomalies, experience changes and discern intricacies in the world, all of which fuel your art.
to prove that a few rounds of golf or some chamber of commerce meeting isn’t the extent of your “getting to know you” time with clients.
* * * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com who's telling their friends about your new product?
that means getting out of your office and actually talking and listening to the people who (really) pay your salary – the customers.
for the reciprocation of that spirit into the souls of the people you serve.
are you returning calls faster than your competitors?
and if you maintain an attitude of curiosity, exploration and expectation in everything you do, it’s yours for the plucking.
just be sure you’re asking, “how,” and not “can i?”
discover untapped assets and find a way to exploit them to grow your business.
is this an opportunity or an opportunity to be used?
because there’s not a single museum in the word displaying a statue of a critic.
and i realize there’s really two ways you can answer that question: literally and metaphorically.
they provide the energy, the light and the life force that fuel your creativity.
so, why is that important to your business?
listen to this: what are you noticing?
how to build your own online video platform.
even mahatma gandhi (of all people!) questioned his own commitment.
this isn’t a case against commitment.
phd, schmee-h-d. let me ask ya this… how do you let experiences change you?
* * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com never the same speech twice.
ultimately, you can’t listen to others until you’ve first learned how to listen to yourself.
which isn’t to say work is everything.
the nametag guy in action here!
how can i conduct a debriefing?
and, you need to compound those experiences with a system of reflection, extraction and sharing.
to the world, to the people, to the ideas that zoom and fly in, to what their hearts are telling them to write.
listen to this: are you freezing your observations?
watch video lessons on enabling customers to buy!
don’t listen to inspiration only.
learn  daily practices for becoming a more approachable manager!
if you can do that, people will no longer have to ask the question: “so, is this your direct personal experience, or are you just quoting someone else?”
the challenge is, how are you going to share that with the world?
i’m human,” i explain.
what have i been noticing a lot of lately? 6.
if you don’t write it down, it never happened.
study ordinary things intently.
what parent of four rug rats doesn’t love that invention!
to figure out what your muse is telling you.
hello, my name is blog!
but if your work is your calling – not just your job – you will embrace it in everything you do.”
why am i not charging for this?
lisa’s saxophone solo.
watch video lessons on delivering unforgettable service!
pick up your  copy (or a case!)right here.
but when you can, reduce your average response time.
one is a possibility question; the other is a yes or no question.
the ultimate dream statement™ creative solutions.
especially when you realize thatthe caveman principle can actually make you more money.
for the list called, "38 ways to make customers gasp" send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
in the first post of this series, we explored a list of things, forces, people and situations to “actively listen to”
remember: he who asks the best questions, wins.
2 comments share thursday, august 28, 2008
because you’re burying some good stuff.
- history yelds to instinct, not the other way aroun... -
the world is one big-ass idea market, and it’s all f-r-e-e!
“what’s your real job?”
a  decade’s worth of chlorine from countless laps of stress-relieving  freestyle.
and not according to an overly regimented schedule.
i wish there was a/an (x)… so, it’s dream focused.
this approachable action positively frames the entire customer encounter.
probably because you had to give it away for free in the beginning to build momentum, credibility and word of mouth.
don’t have enough people to warrant an “audience” for a speech?
after all, art never finishes!
scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com if they can't come up to you; how  will they ever get behind you?
so, think: are you creating what wants to be created?
(actually, three things always change, every time.)
you just keep sharing you art.
predictably unpredictable.
“scott just wanted to talk!
it’s frustrating, rude and assumptive and blindly follows the starving artist script.
even if that means walking around the block or down to the street to starbucks.
anyway, on a more serious note, i was driving from sandusky back to toledo when i heard a fantastic song called "i love everyone" by an artist i'd never heard of before,phil roy.
because resistance hath slain an endless list of would-be artists.
so, think: are you letting your unconscious mind get in the way?
“i wish there was a,” and “so i wouldn’t have to…” and after searching through a few hundred blogs, message boards and forums, here are my favorite examples: * "i wish there was a way to pick the flavors i prefer, so i wouldn't have to throw any away.
anyone who says, “i never have any good ideas,” or “i have writer’s block” or “there’s nothing good out there,” … is a terrible listener.
as inspired by spike's original post and my hommies @brains on fire: work is play.
pick up your copy (or a case!)
if you see something you like and you want, and you take it.
no, you’d better call it a night.
you attend very few meetings.
so i wouldn't have to sit through those atrocious commercials.”
labels: approachability, approachability 2.0, approachable, nametagtv, rent scott's brain, scott ginsberg, the caveman principle
obviously, you can’t immediately address every single attention magnet that crosses your path.
this is a good thing.
let me  ask ya this...
how could this mentor me? 6.
o it takes the wind out of their sales
this is a flickr badge showing items in a set calledbrandtag identity collages.
i don’t mind admitting that to you.
because ctucan totally tell.
you need to build your own video platform!
tune in tothe entrepreneur channel on nametagtv.com!
what’s under your fingernails?
* * * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com how many unsolicited referrals did you get this week?
you need experience(s).
how many different ways can you leverage this?
because you’ve never arrived and there ain’t no finish line.
for the advancement and enhancement of your creative  spirit.
that means becoming a category of one.
remember: solvitas perambulatorum!
i’ve absolutely thought about retiring the tag!
how can the basic concept be applied to different areas?
you learn to respond, not react.
is what i’m doing right now consistent with my #1 goal?
because these silent dialogues immediately make us feel superior to the people around us.
or “what’s the difference?”
how could she be so inconsiderate of the people around her?
for the list called, "26 ways to practice being yourself," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
" *"i wish there was a website that would just tell me where to go so i wouldn't have to stress about this stuff."
[read the full post...] 1 comments share thursday, august 14, 2008 adventures in nametagging: sandusky style just finished a workshop in sandusky with myymca friends in the great lakes region!
“like the mechanic who never really loses the oil stains under his fingernails, our work stays with us wherever we go.
are like sharks – if they don’t keep swimming, they die.
no matter where you live and work, displacement environments are always at your disposal.
are you cloning yourself through teaching others?
so i wouldn’t have to (y)!
that means infusing your childlike energy  into everything you do.
which reminds me, i totally forgot to put on a nametag this morning.
any of the 5000 creative, penetrating, thought-provoking questions i’ve collected, dissected and incorporated into my lexicon over the years.
see, commitment can be seductive.
so, as i racked my brain,  spike said, “see, the work you do – if it truly matters –  becomes a part of you.”
when gross take a back seat to growth.
see, there must be a spirit of humanness and ordinariness in your art; created by an artist who, himself, is human and ordinary because spends time with other ordinary humans in ordinary places doing ordinary things.
your hand doesn’t have to shoot up first.
still wanna to sit at your desk in your pajamas all day?
after all:the most effective way to capture customers’ attention is to b-r-e-a-k her patterns.
if not, then what’s the point of taking this endeavor on?
you will have misgivings.
because it projects a needy, seeking attitude.
watching them in action as they gain value from your product or service so you can more accurately report back on the posture of the masses.
and this was several days into it!
because, as my mentor, william jenkins taught me, “we learn not from our experiences but from intelligent reflection upon those experiences.”
so, i have this buddy named  spike jones.
labels: approachability, approachable, create your own video platform, nametagtv, scott ginsberg, speaker net news
can i transfer this information into something else i do? 2.
in this third and final post on creativity as active listening, i wanted to share a few observations from my own creative practice, along with a collection of probing questions to challenge your own: 1.
so, what’s the product?
next, let’s work counter-intuitively.
ever since that fateful conversation, i’ve been thinking a lot about my fingernails.
because it’s just telling your ego the story it wants to hear.
(as if you didn't already know that.)
and your calmness, patience and quietude will draw them in.
the passion paradox - do i really need twenty pair of sandals?
not only is the simpsons longest running sitcom in the history of television.
and i’m proud to say i’ve made great progress in my listening practice.
but be sure to do so in a way that prevents you from falling in love with your work.
they only care what you’ve learned; and, how those lessons can help them improve their lives.
[read the full post...] 0 comments share connect with scott like hello, my name is blog!
learn daily practices for becoming a more approachable manager!
an extraction of lessons learned.
- - - remember: successful entrepreneurs
find interesting in anything.
so, unchanging backgrounds get filtered out by your brain.
labels: approachability, approachable, hello my name is blog, is there anyone in my life that i treat this way, nametagtv, rent scott's brain, scott ginsberg
as my marketing professor, dr. speh, used to teach us, “when you go to a meeting, don’t say anything until the last five minutes.
because you’ve learned (in your experience as a prehistoric hunter) …anything that moves is a threat to your survival.
consider these four practices and grow bigger ears today!
learning to respond, “same thing for me!”
see yourself in anything.
the school i attended provided an observation room so parents could observe their kids completely without distracting students or teachers.
your mate is fast asleep in the cave.
i forget to put on a nametag sometimes.
it’s got nothing to do with you.
i suggest combing this practice with #2, writing.
any of the 5000 creative, penetrating,  thought-provoking questions i’ve collected, dissected and incorporated  into my lexicon over the years.
no need to pounce on every pause.
getting your butt out of the office and into the warehouse.
allowing objects and events and people to let loose some movement in your mind.
see, here’s what i’ve learned:
don’t ignore that still, small voice in your intuitive heart.
what do you (not) listen to?
perpetually hunt for insight.
if you only say one thing, it become more profound, as scarcity creates a perception of value.
so, here’s your task : turn inward.
ironically, pointing out someone else’s judgmental behavior is, in fact, judgmental.
groundbreaking innovations.
so i wouldn't have to wake my baby up and take her into the store.
don’t waste them on green room, or in some cases, the holiday inn.
because it’s dangerous to compartmentalize every person you meet.
the word “meditate” comes from the latin meditatus, which means, "to think over, consider.”
* * * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com is your frontline in line?
have discussions … with yourself.
and when your mind is calm – like a still body of water – you can more effectively see (and listen to) your own reflection.
what does this have to do with me?
for the list called, "49 ways to become a idea powerhouse," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
he only voices one thought per movie, and it's always killer!
however, after 2,835 days, my experience leads me to believe there does come a point of diminishing returns.
don’t listen to your conditioned mind.
for my list called, "72 superb songs on under scott's fingernails," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
rent scott's brain today!
sure, you can rehearse a little bit.
make sure there are living things around.
but most importantly:
here’s why: o you get ideas.
because it’s not good for your brain (or your heart).
every email from every random person who told me how stupid i was, or how stupid my idea was.
after all, einstein once said, “if at first your idea does not sound absurd, there is no hope for it.”
and it (might) be the most important idea an entrepreneur could entertain.
when you call a customer back right away, it’s unexpected.
remember: your hand doesn’t have to shoot up first.
avoid comparison shoppers.
man, that guy is really being rude to the waitress… i can’t believe that woman just said that to her daughter!
all this fodder, this material surrounding you - that you eat and perceive through your personal filter – you must be able to f-r-e-e-z-e. that means you see something, take a mental polaroid of it and then clothespin it onto your psyche for further evaluation.
your work includes lots of solitude.
finger through the jukebox of your creative mind and locate that one unique song you’re supposed to be singing.
the choices are infinite!
so, is this all you do?
or, studios and workspaces of fellow artists, solo practitioners and spare room tycoons.
the best way to eliminate the competition is to not have any.
that means discerning those little details that send your brain off to the creative races.
how many different ways can i share this intellectual property?
listen to this: are you asking enough questions?
then they get digested by your creative filter and get excreted onto your canvases.
get daily brain candy from this blog via email scott's books twitter join 12,149+ followers of @nametagscott on twitter nametagtv
it becomes a part of our language and our very being.
because real art can’t be created in a vacuum.
that means at the airport ticket  counter when the agent asks, “is this trip business or pleasure?”
you gotta believe in your product!
there are no lines, and coupons are irrelevant.
what lessons have i recently learned?
well, think about this:
explore the timeline of a musician who’s been around a long time and experienced multiple reinventions, still rocking all the while, i.e., tom waits or van morrison.
because once they come pouring out of your heart and through your lips, they may never resurface again.
which is exactly why you need to work so hard at  getting personally involved.
the answer to their problems.
how does this fit into my theory of the universe?
i still believe that commitment is the secret of success.
and walking also taps into your higher consciousness and attracts thoughts, ideas and solutions to current problems.
because they miss all of the nuances, anomalies and patterns that lead to breakthroughs.
i call this the ultimate dream statement™, or uds for short.
don’t want to pay the speaking fee?
0 comments share tuesday, august 12, 2008 join scott tonight for a teleseminar on building online video platforms!
from your observations, scannings and experiences.
maybe poke it a little.
now booking dates for 2009!
“does anybody have any questions?”
now, on a larger scale, people are also surprised when i give them my answer to the question, “scott, have you ever thought about quitting the whole nametag thing?’
tivo, or any other form of dvr.
work means getting your hands dirty.
calls meaning text messages.
we’re  talking about real-life, face-to-face, organic human inquiry, conversation and  connection.
let me suggest this… for the list called, "9 ways to become thee expert on just about anything," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
constant and intelligent reflection upon those experiences.
as a result of purchasing (x), they’re saving time.
0 comments share friday, august 15, 2008 don't leave it in the green room warning:
for the list called, "7 questions to assure people don't tune out your marketing," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
0 comments share thursday, august 21, 2008 no customer has ever said, "wow, you return calls too fast!"
so if you’ll excuse me, i need to go grab my sharpie.
so, as i racked my brain, spike said, “see, the work you do – if it truly matters – becomes a part of you.”
ancillary answers, happy accidents, internal comments, what’s around you, what doesn’t work and how quickly people understand and respond to your ideas.
the good news is, idid eat a delicious sprinkle-topped, chocolate covered rice crispy treat on a stick.
every few years, at least.
see, when they see or hear about your art, their defense mechanism silently screams, “but i couldn’t make it an artist, so why should you?”
the simpson family couch.
that way, instead of pointing out others’ faults to camouflage your own, you can take this moment of introspection and create some movement in the development of your own character.
but it’s the accumulation of those small things that builds familiarity and predictability.
youtube is for losers!
tune in to the marketing channel on nametagtv.com!
what informs your art?
don’t allow psychological and social pressure to prevent you from making mistakes.
the challenge is making the transition, most of which derives from your sense of self-worth.
for my list called, "72 superb songs on under scott's  fingernails," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
tune in to the sales channel on nametagtv.com!
(more on this philosophy here.)
depends what the market will bear.
(this prevents emotions from disturbing the process.)
how are you using you ears as a creative tool?
send them to scott@hellomynameiscott.com.
what else is like this?
work means hitting the streets.
if you need elaboration o
that it might come off as desperate.
what mundane things do you find fascinating?
they see something in you they either wish they had, or did have at one point, but lost.
essentially, this  question boils down to a new philosophy, a new paradigm and a new approach to  our work.
let me ask ya this… how are you leveraging video for your business?
topics - entrepreneurship - sales - marketing - frontline topics - approachability - consistency - execution - brain candy - entrepreneurship - stick-to-itiveness - how to be that guy - stick yourself out there - make a name for yourself behind the brandtag!
*"i wish there was a drive thru wal-mart where i could just pull up to the window and order what i wanted
find a way to make money everywhere.
i'll be discussing the caveman principle in detail as it pertains toonline video platforms tomorrow night during my teleseminar forspeaker net news.
so, when confronted by his lieutenants for an explanation, gandhi said: “only god knows absolute truth; i just know relative truth.
because they don’t listen very well.
so, be constantly scanning.
calls meaning emails.
now that i’ve done this, what else does this make possible?
reserve your truest ruminations for their ideal venue.
he loved to participate in the discussion, even if he had no idea what he was talking about.”
yes, if it has value, if you’re really good at it and if there’s a market for it.
avoid outdated frameworks.
completely predictable.
also known as “moving meditation,” taking a walk is a perfect way to enlist your truest, most important thoughts.
metallic bronze dust from the strings on mytaylor 814-ce guitar.
and not in focus  groups, online surveys or some other form of contrived, unrealistic  cross-section of people you think speak for the entire group.
what products and services are my clients asking for that i don’t currently provide?
what personal skills have i not tapped into yet to build my business?
and although it originated a few million years ago, it’s very interesting to note how this prehistoric survival trait manifests in our daily businesses activities.
the medium is the message.
o you change your scenery.
for the list called, "234 things i've learned about writing, delivering and marketing speeches," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
watch video lessons on spreading the word!
" it’s incredibly convenient to observe someone’s inappropriate behavior and immediately pass judgment on that person.
that means our technology has made it easy to take the personal-ness for granted.
that’s what people measure your credibility by.
future focused, growth-minded 2.
avoid lumping indiscriminately.
if you’re just waiting to chime in
otherwise, your brilliance will bellow in vain, quietly smacking against a brick wall with nobody to appreciate its splendor but you, the housekeeping lady and (possibly) the guy in the next room over desperately trying to get some sleep.
most important question of all time.
you don’t need a phd.
“what’s your other job?”
“and you make a living doing that?”
we have the technology.
at what point are you making a living vs. building your business?
tonight i'll be hosting a teleseminar on speakernet news.
getting your butt out of the office and into the  warehouse.
next, here’s what’s  (metaphorically) under my fingernails: 1.
so you could grow your creative practice.
no threat :) ---> no response.
ans when you meditate, you calm your mind.
which is perfectly acceptable.
now, some people will make arguments against this style of communication.
depends on how much work your new endeavor requires.
if to develop rapport o
sure, quickly returning a phone call or email is small thing.
so, think: how can you “fight back with your art” instead of getting defensive?
that’s what people use to judge you.
* * * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com never the same speech twice.
how can i use this idea, principle or technique to achieve my goals or solve my problems?
let me ask ya this...
where are you accidentally wasting your best stuff?
also a possibility-question that doubles or triples the value of an asset when you think about its future value.
it could be a woolly mammoth.
let me suggest  this...
for example, think about your ipod.
because you will get noticed, get remembered and get business.
use the most important question in entrepreneurship for your video platform to register, click here.
sometimes before the teacher even finished talking!”
or, desolate spaces of solitude in the heart of nature’s beauty.
and in the words of neitzche, “and those who were seen dancing were thought to be insane by those who couldn’t hear the music.”
listen, listen and listen.
* * * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com satisfaction not enough?
because you will have perfected your answer by listening to others first.
you don’t want to be a one-hit wonder.
meditate … with yourself.
if you need clarification o
what do you see when you see people?
that’s what people validate your expertise by.
0 comments share monday, august 25, 2008 grow bigger ears: when is interrupting acceptable?
imagine you’re a prehistoric hunter.
rip its clothes off, strip it of every outer layer until its essence plops down on that imaginary interrogation chair, staring at you.
because it often comes unannounced.
something that doesn’t have a structure, agenda or regimented time limit.
try a few things out.
either way, your caveman brain is conditioned in the following way: movement? ---> change!
the santa monica promenade.
think about it… during the opening credits to every episode of show, something always changes.
curiosity is active response to life.
which means there’s no need to pay attention.
then, put it where it needs to go.
that’s what people relate to.
the logical next step.
just enough where it can go somewhere with its friends.
so, even if you’re skeptical about returning calls faster, i still challenge you to increase your average response time.
can you name them all?
for the list called, "101 people (not) to listen to," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
in this program, you will learn how to: * leverage cultural trends, barriers and phenomena that stand in your way of boosting your fan base through online video *
notice how you take in information and process experiences.
if it doesn’t dramatically disturb the balance of conversation
as a lifelong music fanatic and songwriter myself, i can honestly say that the chorus of this song contains one of the greatest lyrics my ears have ever tasted: "today i'm gonna go face the world and just love everybody."
tune in to the frontline channel on nametagtv.com!
ultimately, you’ll increase your approachability without saying a word.
video isn’t the future — it’s the present!
polaroid and (eventually) digital cameras.
remember: when people ask questions like that, it’s often a projection of their artistic frustration and insecurity.
and, along with those experiences, three other things: first:
instead, biting your tongue until the end of the meeting (or group conversation, teleseminar, etc.) will net four key results: 1.
want to learn how to deliver unforgettable service?
[read the full post...] 1 comments share wednesday, august 06, 2008
become an expert at noticing.
let’s try another one… “i wish there was a fast forward button
and, if don’t do this, sitting in your living room all day gets real old real soon.
rainbow cotton fibers from every content note card  i’ve ever laid out on the floor.
see, if you ask my mother, she’ll proudly tell you, “whenever the teacher posed a question, asked for participation or requested a student’s help …
metallic silver residue from daily pounding on the 78 keys on my macbook pro. 5.
labels: approachability, approachable, nametagtv, rent scott's brain, scott ginsberg, ultimate secret of success
ever watch the simpsons?
because nobody cares what you did.
it’s about observation, followed by questions.
---> threat! ---> respond!
the real answer is backseat dvd player.
the answer to that question is what you should do.
constantly remind people of your commitment … but … let go of the need to do so for sole the purpose of strengthening your own position.
and i’ve never had a customer say, "wow, you return calls too fast!"
that means our technology has made it easy to take the  personal-ness for granted.
this brings to mind something i read in the (fantastic) bookmindfulness, by dr. ellen langer: “a familiar structure or rhythm helps lead to mental laziness, acting as a signal that there is no need to pay attention.”
practice here and there.
avoid mass anythings.
what are you the answer to?
for the list called, "31 questions to test your listening skills,: send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
when was the last time you created new value?
see if you can guess the already existing product that, at one point in time, was considered a groundbreaking innovation: “i wish there was a way to see our vacation pictures
where nature flourishes: botanical gardens.
what did i just learn from this experience? 6.
but if your work is your calling –  not just your job – you will embrace it in everything you do.”
and in the words of napoleon hill, "listen to the music that stirs in your heart.”
“and art pays the bills?”
if you can't, stuff it.
and not in focus groups, online surveys or some other form of contrived, unrealistic cross-section of people you think speak for the entire group.
that means becoming involved (even if it’s just a little) in the production, manufacturing, research, exploration and baseline development of your company’s ideas.
every once in a while i’ll walk out my front door, or get into the car or be halfway to starbucks when i look down at my shirt and say, “ah crap, i forgot my nametag.”
only 34 more available slots... watch
drinking their kool-aid.
twenty-five years later, i’m all grows up and i’m all grows up, as vince vaughn would say.
it’s time to kill breakfast!
[read the full post...] 1 comments share wednesday, august 20, 2008
[read the full post...]
for my list called, "101 people (not) to listen to," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
o if you have a personal emergency
so, as you test them out, remember these simple rules: 1.
when you’re passionately telling people about your art, certain individuals will attempt to steal the wind from your creative sails.
and when you’re there, really be there.
a decade’s worth of chlorine from countless laps of stress-relieving freestyle.
* * * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com if they can't come up to you; how will they ever get behind you?
at which point, all you have to say is, “i had an observation…” at which point, all the people in the room or around the table will turn their heads, rotate their chairs and look in the direction of the one person who hasn’t said anything all morning.
so we would not have to learn new good habits and relearn not to do bad habits.
listen to your work from a cool, objective distance.
how can this mistake be quickly made into something good?
in one particular instance during a protest against the british in 1930, gandhi suddenly decided to forfeit his public demonstration.
which  isn’t to say work is everything.
how can i make writing a part of this?
22 questions to sidestep entrepreneurial atrophy as an entrepreneur, my decision making-process is usually based on self-questioning.
labels: approachability, approachable, grow bigger ears, growing bigger ears ,listen to yourself, listening to yourself, nametagtv, rent scott's brain, scott ginsberg [read the full post...]
listen to this: what’s your excuse for not having any good ideas?
let me suggest this… for a copy of my list called, “33 things i’ve learned about creating your own online video platform”, send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
for the list called, "50 questions every entrepreneur should ask," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
within reason, that is.
listen to this: are you writing or listening?
your professor probably said something like; “you don’t (truly) know the material until you can write about it.”
plug whatever you perceive into the equations of your topic and your philosophy and expertise.
your studio is your spare bedroom.
what have i seen, read or done today that relates to another idea or theme in my life right now?
and, that goes for your inner thoughts too: you don’t truly know what you think and feel about something until you can write about it.
tune in to the entrepreneur channel on nametagtv.com!
for the list called, "13 roles of the listener," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
let’s explore the two elements within: 1.
a chill ran down my spine.
2 comments share tuesday, august 26, 2008 phd, schmee-h-d you don’t need a masters.
so i wouldn't have to get up early."
- who's stealing your product?
a platform to share those lessons learned.
calls meaning any other form of instant communication.
and, in a world of ineffective, impersonal customer service, doing so will immediatelyset you apart from everyone else who takes three days to reply.
everything is fodder.
" - - - now, obviously, some of these ideas are more far-fetched than others.
where does this new idea belong?
when is interrupting the speaker acceptable?
2 comments share friday, august 08, 2008 get the hell out of the house!
observe the mobilization of your inner resources, for these movements will allow you to create something beautiful.
for the list called, "37 things (not) to do this year," send an email to me, and i'll send you the list for free!
and it sounds like a good idea, too.
the type of meditation you choose to use isn’t as important as that you choose to meditate.
labels: approachability, approachable, hello my name is blog, nametagtv, rent scott's brain, scott ginsberg
ask yourself how it relates to you, why it’s interesting, how it’s an example or symbol of something that’s important to you.
you’re contributing to a life-longbody of work.
for three reasons: 1.
so i wouldn't have to pester you all!"
as it freezes, you view it from all angles.
growing up, children create the perception that whoever hand shoots up first is the smartest person in the room.
- home - meet scott - hire scott - watch scott live - contact scott - about you hello, my name is blog!
entrepreneurs must know how to leverage video to their advantage, not only to promote your business online, but for downloadable and hard-copy products.
they also tend to be more interesting than, say, buildings.
*"i wish there was a dustpan with a long stick on it
labels: approachability 2.0, brains on fire, scott ginsberg, spike jones, what's under your fingernails [read the full post...] 1 comments share wednesday, august 27, 2008 4 ways to listen to yourself growing bigger ears is about listening to others, listening to the world, and of course, listening to yourself.
nothing is off-limits.
because that’s when people stop listening to you.
and that is how you build trust.
* * * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com who's telling their friends about you?
now so we wouldn’t have to wait until we got home next week.”
are you an impatient listener?
where are the uncontested waters, and how can i swim there?
spying on the universe.
remember: opportunity never stops knocking – only you stop listening.
especially in an age when the first hit on google becomes the immediate front runner; it’s just not worth doing anything unless you’re going to become the best at it.
by changing three distinct elements to their opening credit montage, they force millions of people to tune in – and never miss –the very beginning of the every episode.
- march 2003 - april 2003 - may 2003 - june 2003 - july 2003 - october 2003 - december 2003 - january 2004 - february 2004 - march 2004 - may 2004 - june 2004 - july 2004 - august 2004 - september 2004 - october 2004 - november 2004 - december 2004 - january 2005 - february 2005 - march 2005 - april 2005 - may 2005 - june 2005 - july 2005 - august 2005 - september 2005 - october 2005 - november 2005 - december 2005 - january 2006 - february 2006 - march 2006 - april 2006 - may 2006 - june 2006 - july 2006 - august 2006 - september 2006 - october 2006 - november 2006 - december 2006 - january 2007 - february 2007 - march 2007 - april 2007 - may 2007 - june 2007 - july 2007 - august 2007 - september 2007 - october 2007 - november 2007 - december 2007 - january 2008 - february 2008 - march 2008 - april 2008 - may 2008 - june 2008 - july 2008 - august 2008 - september 2008 - october 2008 - november 2008 - december 2008 - january 2009 - february 2009 - march 2009 - april 2009 - may 2009 - june 2009 - july 2009 - august 2009 - september 2009 - october 2009 - november 2009 - december 2009 - january 2010 - february 2010 - march 2010 - april 2010 - may 2010 - june 2010 - july 2010 - august 2010 - september 2010 - october 2010 - november 2010 - december 2010 - january 2011 - february 2011 - march 2011 - april 2011 - may 2011 - june 2011 - july 2011 - august 2011 - september 2011 - october 2011 - november 2011 - december 2011
inspiration is endless and everywhere.
and in the words of james hubbel, “art is learning how to be quiet.”
- january 2012 - february 2012 - march 2012
what do you always avoid?
* * * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com nobody talking about your business?
i wish we’d thought of that first!”
how can i profit from this experience?
master the timeline of video first impressions so your viewers don’t tune you out * find resources available to make the video learning curve non-existent *
now, keep in mind: i was only four years old at the time.
because customers can totally tell.
then, when you get home, you mix it with related thoughts and conjure something bigger, as you become bigger yourself.
remember: if you want to prove your credibility and validate your expertise, you need experiences.
because their imagination can’t encompass what it is that you want to do.
do some writing … with yourself.
labels: approachable, association of ymca professionals, i love everyone, kalahari resort, nametagtv, phil roy, scott ginsberg, ymca
competition questions 1.
* * * scott ginsberg that guy with the nametag scott@hellomynameisscott.com still eating top ramen three meals a day?
see, the reason you never watch the opening credits of your favorite show is because they’re always the same.
ever since that fateful conversation, i’ve been  thinking a lot about my fingernails.
so, don’t take it personally.
or, more dangerously: what good is being committed if your commitment causes you to dishonor your truth?
when will i write about this?
this alters your patterns and routines.
ultimately, the goal was to present them with a clear picture of how their children interacted during school.
show some restraint.
for example, think back to those essay tests you took in college.
so, watch how you immediately react to things.
- every interaction is a chance to change somebody's... - the spirit of experimentation - are you using your talents or investing them?
" *"i wish there was a way on the adapter to turn up the volume a bit so i wouldn’t have to turn the volume pretty high to get "normal" volume" *"i wish there was a way to get my seats reassigned online
o if you need more time to take notes o
next, here’s what’s (metaphorically) under my fingernails: 1.