friend codes reply with quotefriend codes reply with quote this reminds me of the digimon vs pokémon debate.
in that debate i supported digimon, which in my opinion is better than nintendo's counterpart in terms of story and character development.
both are equally hilarious.
for this thread i say family guy is a horrible rip off of the simpsons.
the simpsons in some episodes and even the motion picture have a moral about life.
friend codes reply with quotefriend codes reply with quote white version fc:3439-6701-5608 heartgold version fc: 5457-8097-6916 check out my 50 trades goal temporary shop!
friend codes reply with quotefriend codes reply with quote ▲ clip the wings that get you high, just leave them where they lie.
the simpsons, or family guy?friend codes reply with quote neither, i like futurama the best friend codes reply with quotefriend codes reply with quote stylinlilpro 3ds fc:1118-0702-6805, name: lonnie currently playing: 3ds: mario kart 7, super mario 3d land, street fighter, swapnote i like them both.
friend codes reply with quotefriend codes reply with quote apache pride!
on the other hand, family guy brought nothing new to tv, and was even cancelled three times (always returning to broadcast).
white version fc:3439-6701-5608 check out my 50 trades goal  temporary shop!
also, the simpsons came first and revolutionized television.
on the other hand, family guy brought  nothing new to tv, and was even cancelled three times (always returning to  broadcast).
♥friend codes reply with quote beware all those angels with their wings glued on.
1 re: family guy vs simpsons this reminds me of the digimon vs pokémon debate.
that show i can watch for hours in a row.
friend codes reply with quotefriend codes reply with quote | staff| chat| blog| i absolutely love family guy.
well if i'm ever looking for a a laugh, i watch family guy.
forum rules-- mobile--
some said digimon was a rip off of the other in the old  thread.
my  favorite episodes are the treehouse of horror specials.
the simpsons in some episodes and even  the motion picture have a moral about life.
here, i will go with  the simpsons.
never take a single breath for granted.
trades: 26 goal:  24 friend codes   reply with quote 08-21-11 #9 i need 151 more posts!
some said digimon was a rip off of the other in the old thread.
my favorite episodes are the treehouse of horror specials.
i cannot watch the show for long, the characters never engaged me and the jokes  were of bad taste.
although i did find the simpsons movie hilarious.
in contrast, family guy feeds off constant randomness and incoherence.
i do admit it has been  going on for so long the quality of the episodes has gone down, but at least  not to the level of family guy.
i cannot watch the show for long, the characters never engaged me and the jokes were of bad taste.
there is too much vulgarity in comparison to the simpsons  (which is undeniably vulgar).
if i'm ever looking for a show that has great episodes, i watch the simpsons.
last edited by mrv; 08-21-11 at 03:07 am.
here, i will go with the simpsons.
what is the better comedy?
<3 lol, the simpsons :3 i love stewie and bart too :p
in contrast, family guy feeds off  constant randomness and incoherence.
also, the simpsons came first  and revolutionized television.
but seriously family guy is too rude xp friend codes reply with quotefriend codes reply with quote originally posted by mrstorm torilicious, my bestest mazy friend<3 the simpsons obvfriend codes reply with quote family guy is gross.
originally posted by dynamic ashley51093 + - such an amazing person and a great friend.
in that  debate i supported digimon, which in my opinion is better than nintendo's  counterpart in terms of story and character development.
family guy..<3 more adult humour.
so i would have to go with...the simpsons!
there is too much vulgarity in comparison to the simpsons (which is undeniably vulgar).
i do admit it has been going on for so long the quality of the episodes has gone down, but at least not to the level of family guy.