© copyright 2012 disclaimer/copyright privacy integrity promise © agincourt productions
after all, he can take comfort – as can we all – from the fact that bigger idiots than homer simpson have succeeded in business simply by being in the right place at the right time with a very simple idea and the courage to act on it.90369ba0-a7bf-4bb8-90ef-d5bebf9fcf7f|1|5.0
bycontributor tags: actions: e-mail | permalink | comments (0)
no one, including homer, ever knew what compu-global-hyper-mega-net  actually did, but then the same is true of a great many internet businesses,  especially those established in the 90s, and their founders.
90369ba0-a7bf-4bb8-90ef-d5bebf9fcf7f|1|5.0   posted on january 14, 2010 03:23
he has founded at least  three businesses of his own: spring shield, a security firm; mr plow, a snow  clearance operation; and compu-global-hyper-mega-net, an internet business.
homer has also enjoyed short-term success as a bootleg “beer  baron”, as a film producer, as a travelling aphrodisiac salesman, as an  experimental farmer, as an unlicensed chiropractor, and twice as a talent agent.
purists will point out that america’s first cartoon family actually originated on the tracey ullman show two years before their own full season premiere in 1990, and, even then, the first episode was in fact shown in the run up to christmas the previous year, but today is the official anniversary and who are we to argue with fox?
required please choose another name disclaimer the opinions expressed herein are my own personal opinions and do not represent my employer's view in anyway.
no one, including homer, ever knew what compu-global-hyper-mega-net actually did, but then the same is true of a great many internet businesses, especially those established in the 90s, and their founders.
after all, he can take comfort – as can we all – from the fact  that bigger idiots than homer simpson have succeeded in business simply by  being in the right place at the right time with a very simple idea and the  courage to act on it.
homer simpson is an “everyman” character with whom most  middle-aged men, and their families, can identify.
purists will point out that america’s first cartoon family actually  originated on the tracey ullman show two years before their own full season  premiere in 1990, and, even then, the first episode was in fact shown in the  run up to christmas the previous year, but today is the official anniversary  and who are we to argue with fox?
it is but a small step from the sublime to the ridiculous – from elvis’s 75th birthday last week to the simpsons’ 20th birthday today.
homer has also enjoyed short-term success as a bootleg “beer baron”, as a film producer, as a travelling aphrodisiac salesman, as an experimental farmer, as an unlicensed chiropractor, and twice as a talent agent.
yet even he is not immune to the distinctively american belief that if you  take your chances and work hard, you can achieve a better life.
the dark side of the american dream, he is a lazy, overweight, self-centred – but not entirely selfish – salary drone who is unencumbered by much in the way of intelligence or drive.
posted on january 14, 2010 03:23
related posts holding out for a hero this blog is posted in conjunction  with our recently released podcast #124 – heroes & hero... 6  entrepreneurial lessons from the classics  normal 0 false false false en-gb  x-none x-none ...
homer simpson is an “everyman” character with whom most middle-aged men, and their families, can identify.
the dark side of the  american dream, he is a lazy, overweight, self-centred – but not entirely  selfish – salary drone who is unencumbered by much in the way of  intelligence or drive.
none of these enterprises lasted long, or left him with any significant profits in the end, but there is something heroic in the way he keeps trying despite his constant failures.
in fact, he has rather an impressive track record as an entrepreneur.
bycontributor related postsholding out for a hero this blog is posted in conjunction with our recently released podcast #124 – heroes & hero... 6 entrepreneurial lessons from the classics normal 0 false false false en-gb x-none x-none ...
although mini-anarchist bart was originally the focus of a couple of years of “bartmania”, it is his father, homer, who has proved the real “break out” character.
the legacy of wikileaks – part two  one of the more  amusing snippets to be found on wikileaks is a memo from a rather humourless  ameri...
yet even he is not immune to the distinctively american belief that if you take your chances and work hard, you can achieve a better life.
the legacy of wikileaks – part two one of the more amusing snippets to be found on wikileaks is a memo from a rather humourless ameri... comments add commentname*
in fact, he has  rather an impressive track record as an entrepreneur.
he has founded at least three businesses of his own: spring shield, a security firm; mr plow, a snow clearance operation; and compu-global-hyper-mega-net, an internet business.
> homer simpson, american hero it is but a small step from the sublime to the ridiculous – from  elvis’s 75th birthday last week to the simpsons’ 20th birthday  today.
none of these enterprises lasted long, or left him with any significant  profits in the end, but there is something heroic in the way he keeps trying  despite his constant failures.
although mini-anarchist bart was originally the focus of a couple of years  of “bartmania”, it is his father, homer, who has proved the real  “break out” character.