instead of panicking and having children run wild through the  streets, members of the community step forward and take the teachers' place  until an agreement can be met.
while their methods are extremely efficient, only television is able to offer a visual as well as audio component that is free and easy to access.
the use of the town and recurring characters in each episode creates a virtual community, with people of all races, classes, religions and traditions.
after several years, he completed  his ph.d. thesis and then found work at springfield's kwik-e-mart (a spoof of  7-11 convenience stores).
in the case of this  "simpsons" episode, while in fact immigrants had nothing to do with  the tax increase, they were used as defenseless, powerless scapegoats, much  like the jews during the inquisition.
in "mr. lisa  goes to washington," she exposes a corrupt congressman for taking bribes  (richmond 63).
mark pinsky, author ofthe
according to maimonides, every province is responsible for the education of its youth, and the penalty of neglecting this duty is excommunication (minkin 286).
while simply a working  class family man, over the years homer has managed to accomplish many things  including winning a grammy award, traveling to outer space, climbing the  highest mountain in town, doing undercover work for the police, and meeting  presidents ford, carter, bush, and clinton.
the term "crypto jew" refers to a person secretly  remaining faithful to judaism while outwardly practicing another religion.
countless viewers  take what they see on the show and make it part of their lifestyle, which  invigorates sephardic thoughts and teachings into society.
the same can be said of the life of the character waylon smithers.
new york: ktav publishing house, 1971.
all too often he contradicts the teachings  of maimonides and other sephardic thinkers, which leads to visible negative  effects.
bart spends most of his time getting into mischief rather than  studying.
for example, in 1348, castillian jews were forbidden  to lend money at interest (gilitiz 6).
even though many of the traditions of sephardic culture were created generations ago, it still lives on today.
in addition to the "marranos" of spain and portugal, crypto jews also existed in north africa in the 12th century.
homer enjoyed drink, as ibn ezra's poem dictates, but he did so to the point of excess where maimonides would not be pleased with his actions.
he has a sensational passion for life.
the term "crypto jew" refers to a person secretly remaining faithful to judaism while outwardly practicing another religion.
the obvious frustration felt by apu here is  typical of what many crypto jews felt in spain.
in yet again another situation, homer eats a steak so large that  another person who he coerces into eating it with him has a heart attack.
sephardic tradition and "the simpsons" connections by richard kalman & josh belkin http://www.snpp.com /other/papers/kb.paper.html -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- the sephardic tradition encompasses the culture of the jews who descended from spain prior to the expulsion in 1492.
this is the case with the teachers of springfield elementary school.
" barnett, richard, ed.
unfortunately, the students at springfield elementary don't have the same  luxuries.
maimonides also states that a pupil should have a great deal of respect for  his teacher, as he wrote "he is under obligation to honor and revere his  teacher, even to a greater extent than to his father; for his father gave him  life in this world, while his teacher who instructs wisdom, secures for him  life in the world to come."
according to the simpsons, argues that "the simpsons  from time to time suggest an underlying element of what might be called  crypto-judaism" (121).
this stress on education of secular subjects as well as religious topics  allowed the sephardic jews privileged enough to live in the golden age of spain  to contribute to a wide array of matters.
these writings begin to  encompass what the sephardic tradition means in today's world.
in the episode entitled "itchy and scratchy:  the movie," we learn that bart once replaced his teacher's birth control  pills with tic-tacs, and in "bart the lover" he forged love letters  to her.
yet every opportunity he has to declare his true self, smithers reluctantly holds back.
the simpsons live in springfield, a diverse town that is the setting for the series.
this sephardic tradition is kept alive in lisa simpson, the brilliant and  talented middle child of the simpson family.
these writings begin to encompass what the sephardic tradition means in today's world.
in short, by showing one thing, the writers hope to preach the very opposite.
all of the writers on "the simpsons" have gone to great undergraduate and graduate universities, over 21 of who hail from harvard, and thus know the importance of a diverse education.
also, homer's father abe, is portrayed as the quintessential jewish grandfather, always complaining and boring his family with stories of "the old country."
in addition, she is a skillful horse back rider and at one time took  care of a pony of her own.
many jews in spain found their lives became easier once they converted to christianity.
maimonides also states that a pupil should have a great deal of respect for his teacher, as he wrote "he is under obligation to honor and revere his teacher, even to a greater extent than to his father; for his father gave him life in this world, while his teacher who instructs wisdom, secures for him life in the world to come."
apu was born in ramatur, pakistan and attended calcutta technical institute (caltech) where he graduated valedictorian of his class of seven million.
new  york: harper perennial, 1997.
the creators of "the simpsons" know that they have a powerful  effect on their audience and have the opportunity to impart some wisdom onto  their faithful cadre of fans.
in the case of this "simpsons" episode, while in fact immigrants had nothing to do with the tax increase, they were used as defenseless, powerless scapegoats, much like the jews during the inquisition.
for example, many great rabbis were also physicians, such as  maimonides, nachmanides, and rabbenu nissim ben reuben.
some noteworthy changes include the shift from yeshiva education to being taught by one's family members, an obligation taken very seriously (gitlitz 217).
other examples of  homer's hedonism are demonstrated by his eating to the point of sickness.
the simpsons: a complete guide to our favorite family.
bart simpson, who can be seen as the yetzer ha-ra personified, shows no respect for his teachers, and thus damages his ability to learn.
the tradition today has come to  include not only those with geographic ties, but also those with links to the  fascinating culture.
maimonides also incorporates his advice about other topics of health and hygiene into the sephardic tradition.
she is extremely intelligent and sophisticated, and is often seen out-thinking those around her."
much of this knowledge comes from the teachings of the jewish faith.
instead, jews felt unwelcome and were persecuted because of their identity.
when one of her students is perplexed about  the situation and asks, "was president lincoln ok?"
today, pop culture can be found in the form of the internet, radio, movies, or television.
she  is far and away the most respectable character.
in the episode entitled  "bart's inner child," smithers actually musters up the courage to  tell mr. burns that he loves him at the first "do what you feel  festival," but quickly covers his tracks by adding "… in those  colors!"
factsofisrael.com news, comments and links«
for example, they only books the school can afford are ones banned by other schools like, tek war and the satanic verses.
as he noted in the guide to the  perplexed, "the true perfection of man [is] the possession of the highest  intellectual faculties" (minkin 417).
unfortunately, the students at springfield elementary don't have the same luxuries.
"the simpsons" demonstrate the concept of living life to its fullest routinely, especially through homer's actions.
she is far and away the most respectable character.
gitlitz say that the meager remnants that resurfaced in  the 20th century are the exception to the rule.
roy at november 8, 2009 08:17 ampost a comment name: email address: url: remember me?
in the 1370's, a revival of anti-semitic literature took place in spain and several prominent jews converted, including solomon halevi, chief rabbi of burges, who took the name of pablo de santa maria.
good health is a prerequisite for another important part of the sephardic tradition: education.
homer's characteristics and actions have been assimilated into american culture, while containing sephardic themes and traditions, unbeknownst to many.
[...] according to david gitlitz, in spite of the attempts of crypto jews, most  of these conversos had been completely assimilated by the end of the 17th  century (gitlitz x).
they show the teachers in a certain light, and because the viewer ridicules this presentation, they tend to agree with the opposite.
this could be perhaps traced back to his lack of respect for his teacher.
much of this knowledge comes from the teachings  of the jewish faith.
according to solomon david sassoon, "all fields of intellectual endeavor such as medicine, mathematics, philosophy, grammar, poetry, ethics talmud and mysticism were widely deepened by the jews of spain" (sassoon 7).
for example,  self-proclaimed sephardic jew hank azaria not only writes for the show but also  lends his voice to numerous characters such as apu, professor frink, and moe.
this could be perhaps traced back to his lack of respect for his  teacher.
there is evidence to suggest  that the writers portray the simpson family as crypto jews of the assimilated  nature, so much so that they no longer know their true identity.
this sephardic versatility is now indicative of the tradition.
maybe change for everyone, sepharadim included.
there is evidence to suggest that the writers portray the simpson family as crypto jews of the assimilated nature, so much so that they no longer know their true identity.
obviously, homer in this case did not follow maimonides' instructions to eat  one-third less than the quantity that would make one feel full (minkin 382).
they have  three children: bart is the young troublemaker who always causes a ruckus,  while lisa represents high intellectualism and morals, even though she is only  eight years old.
"the simpsons" demonstrate the concept of living life to its  fullest routinely, especially through homer's actions.
long time writer mike reiss says, "there have always  been a lot of jewish writers on 'the simpsons" (pinsky 109).
he has a sensational passion for  life.
maimonides preaches for teachers to have patience with their  disciples, as he said "if the teacher taught and his pupil did not  understand he should not be angry with them or fall into a rage, but should  repeat the lesson again and again till they have grasped the full meaning"  (minkin 288).
his next-door  neighbor, ned flanders, labels homer as having an "intoxicating lust for  life" (irwin 20).
in addition, she is a skillful horse back rider and at one time took care of a pony of her own.
no longer was there a golden age, where  jewish thought and life flourished.
chicago: open court, 2001.
new york: harper perennial, 1997.
according to solomon david sassoon,  "all fields of intellectual endeavor such as medicine, mathematics,  philosophy, grammar, poetry, ethics talmud and mysticism…were widely  deepened by the jews of spain" (sassoon 7).
it was estimated that one third of the jewish population of spain was killed in the pogroms of 1391, and another third converted to christianity (beinart 425).
i really enjoyed reading this paper and i think the points it raise are unique and have alot of validity to it.
the simpsons and  philosophy: the d'oh of homer.
for example, a menorah is found in the simpsons'  storage closet, with no explanation.
"immerse your heart in pleasure and in joy," he writes.
after eating expired canned meat, homer returns to the store to complain, where he is quick to accept ten pounds of moldy seafood as an apology, which only makes him sicker.
bart consistently gets bad grades, dreads school, and has no desire to learn.
many jews know that sephardim eat rice and beans on pesach, and know of the unique torah trope of the tradition, but little else.
if anyone truly understands the difficulties of living one way, and  believing something completely different, it is "simpsons" character  apu nahasapeemapetilon (voiced by azaria).
for example, self-proclaimed sephardic jew hank azaria not only writes for the show but also lends his voice to numerous characters such as apu, professor frink, and moe.
writers like azaria have deftly incorporated jewish wisdom into various episodes, much of which includes aspects of the sephardic tradition.
in  order to qualify for disability and be able to work from home, homer  intentionally eats to gain weight his plan backfires, and he loses the respect  of his family and friends when he does damage to his body.
aren't many of the simpsons writers jewish?
once lit, nobody could quell the anti-semitism in spain.
the details of the show have a striking resemblance to the situation jews encountered during the spanish inquisition.
and as early as the mid 13th century,  christians were allowed to enter temples and attempt to persuade jews to  convert as they were forced to sit and listen.
however, a broader  interpretation also includes jews who originated from turkey, greece, italy,  england, the ottoman empire and other lands.
in 1263, saint raymond of penyafort and nacmanides were forced to debate the reliability of the talmud before a congregation in barcelona (gitlitz 4).
his judgment is often poor, but he usually means well, especially in regards to his family.
many of my good friends in israel are sephardic jews whose parents came  from moroco, tunisia and algeria.
encyclopedia judaica.
he even has dreams of mr. burns flying into bed with him.
this responsibility is  undertaken by the people of springfield in the episode titled "the pta  disbands" (richmond 172).
other examples of homer's hedonism are demonstrated by his eating to the point of sickness.
these are the dangers that maimonides was warning about when the proper method of education is not implemented.
in "summer of 4 ft. 2," mrs. hoover, a second grade  teacher, is speaking about the abraham lincoln assassination when she finds  that she is under time pressure.
instead, in "grade school confidential," skinner admits  that he loves working at an elementary school because "the children will  believe anything you tell them."
the terrifying lows, the dizzying highs, the creamy middles" (irwin 7).
the simpsons archive © richard kalman (curlyrk@aol.com) and josh belkin (jgbel@aol.com), tufts university, november 29, 2001.
many of the members of the  springfield community have questionable morals and talents, but not lisa.
the hope of the sephardic community in providing a diverse education was to  mold an adult who was adept at many things.
his wife marge has large blue hair, and holds the family  together through her unending dedication to her job as a homemaker.
"the spiritual heritage of the sephardim"  barnett, richard, ed.
philadelphia: the jewish publication society, 1996.
this is displayed by showing the opposite of the ideal at bart and lisa's school.
he adorns a cowboy  hat to cover up his traditional indian locks and at times even tried to feign  interest in baseball, america's national pastime.
the simpsons live in springfield, a diverse town that is  the setting for the series.
ever since the late 1950's, america has been fascinated by pop culture.
homer also eats to excess on many other occasions, which causes him physical harm, and creates problems for himself and his family.
he carries a picture of his boss mr.  burns, with whom he is infatuated, in his wallet alongside his dog.
there were considerable amounts of social, political, and economic pressures placed on jews in spain to convert once the 14th century rolled around (gitlitz 4).
the tradition today has come to include not only those with geographic ties, but also those with links to the fascinating culture.
we believe this constitutes a 'fair use' of any such copyrighted material as provided for in section 107 of the us copyright law.
bart spends most of his time getting into mischief rather than studying.
i copy the full thesis below, it's long but worht it, and the real story is an overview of sephardic history and culture.
the writers behind "the simpsons" are preaching that a certain degree of patience is necessary for a teacher to be effective, in agreement with maimonides.
smithers is a closet homosexual, and is forced to forever hide this aspect of his life from his peers to gain their acceptance.
for example, a menorah is found in the simpsons' storage closet, with no explanation.
in the episode entitled "itchy and scratchy: the movie," we learn that bart once replaced his teacher's birth control pills with tic-tacs, and in "bart the lover" he forged love letters to her.
lisa is a devoted feminist.
first off, there is the father homer, who has a deep passion for life, as well  as food.
however, many  jews, and even non-jews are exposed to aspects of the sephardic tradition and  culture without even knowing it.
these extremely difficult circumstances forced a significant percentage of jews to take on the christian faith.
in addition, the brunt of the spanish inquisition was aimed at them (sephardim 1146).
homer's ambition and thirst for excitement allows him  to live a fulfilling life, which other characters take pride in.
the eccentric professor frink (also voiced by  azaria) teaches his nursery school class the physics behind many of their  beloved toys and marge simpson lectures to bart's class on geography.
this must have been a feeling that many crypto jews were forced to get used to in order to remain in spain.
sephardic tradition and "the simpsons" connections by  richard kalman & josh belkin http://www.snpp.com /other/papers/kb.paper.html -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- the sephardic tradition encompasses the culture of the jews who descended  from spain prior to the expulsion in 1492.
it was estimated that one third of the jewish population of spain was  killed in the pogroms of 1391, and another third converted to christianity  (beinart 425).
his wife marge has large blue hair, and holds the family together through her unending dedication to her job as a homemaker.
homer's ambition and thirst for excitement allows him to live a fulfilling life, which other characters take pride in.
when principal skinner is forced to cut back funding for school supplies and teachers' salaries, the teachers decide to call a strike.
"modern sephardic poetry".
this sephardic versatility is now indicative of the  tradition.
the use of the town and recurring characters in  each episode creates a virtual community, with people of all races, classes,  religions and traditions.
the simpson family, which the show places into various situations each episode has a broad range of personality traits in each of the characters.
posted by: nancy reis estima gojcaj at november 9, 2003 04:47 am the sense of intelectual creativity in our current and past spain is what we missed of sepharadim.
conversos came in two categories: those who wished to mend into christian society and erase their jewish past and those who sought to preserve as much of their heritage with as few alterations as possible.
the simpsons and philosophy: the d'oh of homer.
apu curses himself for letting  down his family, "i've betrayed my indian heritage, sir.
while homer does many life-rewarding things, he also does many things that  go against the sephardic tradition.
lessons from this can be learned, with the hope that something of this nature  will not happen again.
maimonides also incorporates his advice about other topics of health and  hygiene into the sephardic tradition.
another poem by rufina bernardetti, a sephardic-american, expresses the importance of living with a vivacious spirit in sephardic culture.
"the spiritual heritage of the sephardim" barnett, richard, ed.
however, a broader interpretation  also includes jews who originated from turkey, greece, italy, england, the  ottoman empire and other lands.
however, many jews, and even non-jews are exposed to aspects of the sephardic  tradition and culture without even knowing it.
"the converso community in 15th century spain."
barnett, richard, ed.
many of the members of the springfield community have questionable morals and talents, but not lisa.
posted by david melle
however, this diverse setting often leads to culture  wars and clashes between the townspeople.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- bibliography beinart, haim.
homer's characteristics and actions have been assimilated into  american culture, while containing sephardic themes and traditions, unbeknownst  to many.
for example, they only  books the school can afford are ones banned by other schools like, tek war and  the satanic verses.
after several years, he completed his ph.d. thesis and then found work at springfield's kwik-e-mart (a spoof of 7-11 convenience stores).
the sephardic heritage.
the simpson family, which the show places into various situations each  episode has a broad range of personality traits in each of the characters.
in short, by showing one thing, the writers  hope to preach the very opposite.
we are making such material available in our efforts to advance understanding of environmental, political, human rights, economic, democracy, scientific, and social justice issues, etc.
"immerse your heart in pleasure and in joy," he  writes.
"with  the wholeness of spirit that is victorious we once more can share the essence  and purity of life as jews from sepharad".
what would my parents say?"
for example, "the simpsons," the longest running primetime animated show, has often been praised for being one of the most intelligent and provocative television programs on the air.
this latter form is what is now almost romantically referred to as the crypto jew.
if you wish to use copyrighted material from this site for purposes of your own that go beyond 'fair use', you must obtain permission from the copyright owner.
all too often in world history, when nations experience internal strife,  leaders are quick to blame a distinguishable group for the problems.
when one of her students is perplexed about the situation and asks, "was president lincoln ok?"
haim beinart said "what started in seville in 1391 was like a spark in a forest fire" (425).
many jews in spain found their lives became easier once they converted to  christianity.
in addition, many sephardic poets were also well known in other  spheres, such as samuel ha-nagid, who was a commander in the military, grand  vizier to grenada, grocery store owner, and halachist.
even though many of the traditions of sephardic culture were created  generations ago, it still lives on today.
this is a sharp parallel to the inquisition, during which the government leaders, king ferdinand and queen isabella, blamed the troubles of spain, including economic problems, on the jews.
aspects of the sephardic style of education can be seen clearly in "the simpsons" upon careful inspection.
in yet again another situation, homer eats a steak so large that another person who he coerces into eating it with him has a heart attack.
in the episode entitled "bart's inner child," smithers actually musters up the courage to tell mr. burns that he loves him at the first "do what you feel festival," but quickly covers his tracks by adding " in those colors!"
maimonides preaches for teachers to have patience with their disciples, as he said "if the teacher taught and his pupil did not understand he should not be angry with them or fall into a rage, but should repeat the lesson again and again till they have grasped the full meaning" (minkin 288).
the baby maggie never speaks, but observes all the ordeals the family goes through.
aside to references to famous authors and philosophers like marx, kant, twain, and hemingway, "the simpsons" also displays a knowledge of the sephardic tradition that would make rabbi moses ben maimon blush.
from andy warhol's eccentric artwork to britney spears, pop culture has  reflected the times and ideas of generations past in a convenient, easy to  understand fashion.
the horror and shear unfairness of the expulsion of jews from spain was demonstrated in a 1996 episode of "the simpsons."
when apu replaces his statue  of the hindu god genisha with a stack on entertainment weekly magazines, homer  asks why apu made the change, to which he responds "oh, who needs the  infinite compassion of genisha when i have tom cruise and nicole kidman staring  at me with their dead eyes!"
all of the writers on "the simpsons" have gone to great  undergraduate and graduate universities, over 21 of who hail from harvard, and  thus know the importance of a diverse education.
new york: ktav publishing  house, 1971.
he has a hedonistic lifestyle, which is the flaw that prevents him  from greatness.
although many discount "the simpsons," simply  because it is a cartoon, this portion of the population is blinded to the high  "plane" the show operates on.
hoover angrily  and sarcastically remarks that president lincoln was fine, in order to leave  sooner.
westminster  john knox press, 2001.read excerpt.
the terrifying lows, the dizzying highs, the creamy  middles" (irwin 7).
they show the teachers in a certain light, and  because the viewer ridicules this presentation, they tend to agree with the  opposite.
aside, from her immense knowledge of history, mathematics, and the sciences, lisa is also an accomplished musician.
they have three children: bart is the young troublemaker who always causes a ruckus, while lisa represents high intellectualism and morals, even though she is only eight years old.
once lit, nobody could quell the  anti-semitism in spain.
this latter form is what is  now almost romantically referred to as the crypto jew.
however, many jews, and even non-jews are exposed to aspects of the sephardic tradition and culture without even knowing it.
good health is a prerequisite for another important part of the sephardic  tradition: education.
these are the dangers that maimonides was warning about when the proper  method of education is not implemented.
she is extremely intelligent  and sophisticated, and is often seen out-thinking those around her."
in addition, many sephardic poets were also well known in other spheres, such as samuel ha-nagid, who was a commander in the military, grand vizier to grenada, grocery store owner, and halachist.
aside to references to famous authors  and philosophers like marx, kant, twain, and hemingway, "the  simpsons" also displays a knowledge of the sephardic tradition that would  make rabbi moses ben maimon blush.
this must have been a feeling that many crypto jews were  forced to get used to in order to remain in spain.
"food should not be taken to repletion,"  he says (minkin 382).
in "summer of 4 ft. 2," mrs. hoover, a second grade teacher, is speaking about the abraham lincoln assassination when she finds that she is under time pressure.
this stress on education of secular subjects as well as religious topics allowed the sephardic jews privileged enough to live in the golden age of spain to contribute to a wide array of matters.
the  spanish inquisition was instituted to rid the country of individuals whom they  believed to be causing spain's rapid decline.
when giving the rules for proper rest and  sleeping, he insists, "one should not sleep during the day" (minkin  383).
all too often in world history, when nations experience internal strife, leaders are quick to blame a distinguishable group for the problems.
his next-door neighbor, ned flanders, labels homer as having an "intoxicating lust for life" (irwin 20).
in the 1370's, a revival of anti-semitic  literature took place in spain and several prominent jews converted, including  solomon halevi, chief rabbi of burges, who took the name of pablo de santa  maria.
in addition to crypto-jewry, the sephardic tradition is based heavily on enjoying life and taking care of oneself while doing so.
according to maimonides,  every province is responsible for the education of its youth, and the penalty  of neglecting this duty is excommunication (minkin 286).
this is the case with the teachers of  springfield elementary school.
in fact, spain was losing many of its colonies throughout the world, achieving a smaller sphere of influence, and its source of wealth was drying up.
apu was born in ramatur, pakistan  and attended calcutta technical institute (caltech) where he graduated  valedictorian of his class of seven million.
many jews know that sephardim eat rice and beans on pesach, and know  of the unique torah trope of the tradition, but little else.
neither maimonides nor any  self-respecting sephardic teacher would ever approve of such outrageous display.
while their methods are extremely  efficient, only television is able to offer a visual as well as audio component  that is free and easy to access.
new york: thomas yoseloff, 1957.
for example, in 1348, castillian jews were forbidden to lend money at interest (gilitiz 6).
the hope of the sephardic community in providing a diverse education was to mold an adult who was adept at many things.
for maimonides, the ultimate aim of  education was to achieve knowledge of g-d through the torah, but he and his  sephardic peers never underestimated the importance of learning in other areas.
"the converso community in 15th century spain.
previous: chechnean islamic terrorists linked to al-qa'eda | main | next: palestinian genocide bomber murders four israelis » the simpsons archive (www.snpp.com) has a strange but funny thesis that holds that the simpsons are actually a family of sephardic jews: the sephardic tradition encompasses the culture of the jews who descended from spain prior to the expulsion in 1492.
the simpsons are clearly anglo-saxon protestants not spanish jewry.
nowadays, one of the  country's most popular television shows overtly displays numerous facets of  sephardic culture.
also, homer's father abe, is portrayed as  the quintessential jewish grandfather, always complaining and boring his family  with stories of "the old country."
"the simpsons" often utilizes the technique known as irony to  illustrate a particular message.
another example of this frustration expressed openly  by faculty members of springfield elementary occurs when principal skinner  blurts out "you and i both know these children have no future!"
in "lisa vs. malibu  stacy," she creates a doll of her own for little girls to respect as  opposed to the popular "barbie" like malibu stacy, which is nothing  more then a chauvinistic male stereotype.
some noteworthy changes  include the shift from yeshiva education to being taught by one's family  members, an obligation taken very seriously (gitlitz 217).
fueled by the inflammatory oratory of archdeacon martinez of seville, who preached a holy war against the jews, and called for the destruction of local synagogues, pogroms spread across spain in june of 1391, followed by mass conversions.
what would my  parents say?"
while they were officially deemed  "new christians" and were supposed to be treated as equals,  considerable legislation was taken against them in spain, portugal, and the  colonies.
bart consistently gets bad grades, dreads school, and has no desire to  learn.
many of my good friends in israel are sephardic jews whose parents came from moroco, tunisia and algeria.
"food should not be taken to repletion," he says (minkin 382).
jews faced more and more hardships in spain after this incident,  culminating in the edict of expulsion of 1492, which forced jews to either  convert of leave the country.
when principal skinner is forced to cut back  funding for school supplies and teachers' salaries, the teachers decide to call  a strike.
yesno comments: fair use notice
however, a broader interpretation also includes jews who originated from turkey, greece, italy, england, the ottoman empire and other lands.
when giving the rules for proper rest and sleeping, he insists, "one should not sleep during the day" (minkin 383).
homer enjoyed drink, as ibn ezra's  poem dictates, but he did so to the point of excess where maimonides would not  be pleased with his actions.
she plays the saxophone for  her school band, and also plays the bass, bongo drums, didgeridoo and acoustic  guitar.
when apu replaces his statue of the hindu god genisha with a stack on entertainment weekly magazines, homer asks why apu made the change, to which he responds "oh, who needs the infinite compassion of genisha when i have tom cruise and nicole kidman staring at me with their dead eyes!"
the spanish inquisition was instituted to rid the country of individuals whom they believed to be causing spain's rapid decline.
all too often he contradicts the teachings of maimonides and other sephardic thinkers, which leads to visible negative effects.
this sephardic tradition is kept alive in lisa simpson, the brilliant and talented middle child of the simpson family.
smithers  is a closet homosexual, and is forced to forever hide this aspect of his life  from his peers to gain their acceptance.
the tradition today has come to include not  only those with geographic ties, but also those with links to the fascinating  culture.
apu is a devout hindu, but has been forced to hide  his religious identity in order to be accepted by his peers.
instead, jews felt unwelcome and were  persecuted because of their identity.
there were considerable amounts of social, political, and  economic pressures placed on jews in spain to convert once the 14th century  rolled around (gitlitz 4).
this idea of hiding one's true identity is very much related to  the sephardic crypto tradition, and brought up repeatedly in "the  simpsons."
while simply a working class family man, over the years homer has managed to accomplish many things including winning a grammy award, traveling to outer space, climbing the highest mountain in town, doing undercover work for the police, and meeting presidents ford, carter, bush, and clinton.
finally, lisa is a devoted sister and  daughter who loves her family very much, and while she may be the classic  "overachiever," she nevertheless remains the model of sephardic  versatility.
new york: thomas yoseloff,  1957.
this is a sharp parallel to the inquisition, during which the  government leaders, king ferdinand and queen isabella, blamed the troubles of  spain, including economic problems, on the jews.
others were statesman-scholars, such as isaac abravanel, who was ferdinand and isabella's treasurer as well as the author of some very popular biblical commentary (sassoon 23).
today, pop culture can be found in the form of the  internet, radio, movies, or television.
according to maimonides, the highest goal that one can hope to attain is the perfection of the mind.
"the simpsons" has an audience that ranges from  young children to adults, and affects viewers on many levels.
in addition, the brunt of the spanish inquisition was aimed at them  (sephardim 1146).
these diverse  topics of study helped sephardic jews grow up to be great thinkers.
in "mr. lisa goes to washington," she exposes a corrupt congressman for taking bribes (richmond 63).
"the jew became the scapegoat of all misfortune, economic or otherwise" (mowbray).
meanwhile, homer is routinely shown asleep on the job throughout the day.
others were  statesman-scholars, such as isaac abravanel, who was ferdinand and isabella's  treasurer as well as the author of some very popular biblical commentary  (sassoon 23).
apu is a devout hindu, but has been forced to hide his religious identity in order to be accepted by his peers.
jews faced more and more hardships in spain after this incident, culminating in the edict of expulsion of 1492, which forced jews to either convert of leave the country.
although many discount "the simpsons," simply because it is a cartoon, this portion of the population is blinded to the high "plane" the show operates on.
gitlitz, david m. secrecy and deceit: the religion of the crypto jews.
often pop culture is criticized because it lacks intelligence and stereotypically portrays much of society, but this does not hold true for all facets of pop culture.
i'll have to listen more attentively the next time i see an episode of the simpsons.
these extremely difficult circumstances forced a  significant percentage of jews to take on the christian faith.
the eccentric professor frink (also voiced by azaria) teaches his nursery school class the physics behind many of their beloved toys and marge simpson lectures to bart's class on geography.
bernardetti, rufina.
according to maimonides, the highest goal that one can  hope to attain is the perfection of the mind.
if sepharadim would be back to spain, maybe things changed for better.
mark pinsky,  author of the gospel
mark pinsky,  author ofthe
while they were officially deemed "new christians" and were supposed to be treated as equals, considerable legislation was taken against them in spain, portugal, and the colonies.
for maimonides, the ultimate aim of education was to achieve knowledge of g-d through the torah, but he and his sephardic peers never underestimated the importance of learning in other areas.
no longer was there a golden age, where jewish thought and life flourished.
the effects of jews being used as  scapegoats for societal problems can be seen today in the sephardic tradition.
hoover angrily and sarcastically remarks that president lincoln was fine, in order to leave sooner.
[...] according to david gitlitz, in spite of the attempts of crypto jews, most of these conversos had been completely assimilated by the end of the 17th century (gitlitz x).
this idea of hiding one's true identity is very much related to the sephardic crypto tradition, and brought up repeatedly in "the simpsons."
in this case, life  is truly imitating art.
lisa is also politically active.
instead of panicking and having children run wild through the streets, members of the community step forward and take the teachers' place until an agreement can be met.
the gold and silver they counted on from foreign lands ran out, and the country entered difficult economic times.
the sephardic tradition has come a long way from the days of the inquisition, where people had to hide their roots, to today's modern culture, where it is ubiquitous.
another poem by rufina bernardetti, a sephardic-american, expresses the  importance of living with a vivacious spirit in sephardic culture.
a typical curriculum for a jewish boy in 13th century spain was divided  into three sections, the first being bible and talmud, the second being ethical  and philosophical works, and the third being scientific studies such as logic,  astronomy, physics and metaphysics and mathematics (sassoon 8-9).
the events of the inquisition forever changed the traditions and roles of sephardic jews.
another example of this frustration expressed openly by faculty members of springfield elementary occurs when principal skinner blurts out "you and i both know these children have no future!"
nowadays, one of the country's most popular television shows overtly displays numerous facets of sephardic culture.
"with the wholeness of spirit that is victorious we once more can share the essence and purity of life as jews from sepharad".
the baby maggie never speaks, but observes all the ordeals the  family goes through.
for example, poems by  sephardic writers such as moses ibn ezra convey the importance of living life  to its fullest.
however, this diverse setting often leads to culture wars and clashes between the townspeople.
the effects of jews being used as scapegoats for societal problems can be seen today in the sephardic tradition.
according to david gitlitz, in spite of the attempts of crypto jews, most of these conversos had been completely assimilated by the end of the 17th century (gitlitz x).
westminster john knox press, 2001.read excerpt.
for example, many great rabbis were also physicians, such as maimonides, nachmanides, and rabbenu nissim ben reuben.
aspects of the sephardic style of education can be seen clearly in  "the simpsons" upon careful inspection.
in addition to crypto-jewry, the sephardic tradition is based heavily on  enjoying life and taking care of oneself while doing so.
the gold and silver they counted on from  foreign lands ran out, and the country entered difficult economic times.
the events of the inquisition forever changed the  traditions and roles of sephardic jews.
the sephardic tradition has come a  long way from the days of the inquisition, where people had to hide their  roots, to today's modern culture, where it is ubiquitous.
first off, there is the father homer, who has a deep passion for life, as well as food.
in order to qualify for disability and be able to work from home, homer intentionally eats to gain weight his plan backfires, and he loses the respect of his family and friends when he does damage to his body.
in this case, life is truly imitating art.
often pop culture is criticized because it  lacks intelligence and stereotypically portrays much of society, but this does  not hold true for all facets of pop culture.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- beinart, haim.
conversos came in two categories: those who wished to mend into christian  society and erase their jewish past and those who sought to preserve as much of  their heritage with as few alterations as possible.
in the episode "wild barts can't be broken," homer's favorite baseball team wins the pennant, and he celebrates with heavy drinking, which leads him to destroy the local school.
while this goes against what maimonides taught, at the same time, these actions are fulfilling and gratifying to his lifestyle, which is encouraged by the tradition.
she plays the saxophone for her school band, and also plays the bass, bongo drums, didgeridoo and acoustic guitar.
i copy the full thesis below, it's long but worht it, and the real story is  an overview of sephardic history and culture.
"lisa, is not only  pro-intellectual, she is smart beyond her years.
"lisa, is not only pro-intellectual, she is smart beyond her years.
the obvious frustration felt by apu here is typical of what many crypto jews felt in spain.
mark pinsky, author of the gospel
these diverse topics of study helped sephardic jews grow up to be great thinkers.
lessons from this can be learned, with the hope that something of this nature will not happen again.
he has a hedonistic lifestyle, which is the flaw that prevents him from greatness.
a typical curriculum for a jewish boy in 13th century spain was divided into three sections, the first being bible and talmud, the second being ethical and philosophical works, and the third being scientific studies such as logic, astronomy, physics and metaphysics and mathematics (sassoon 8-9).
posted by: aaron stein at january 11, 2003 01:49 pm this is a retarded article yes many of the creators of the simpsons are judaic but the characters, the simpsons are clearly protestant christians, but i am sure your going to call the murranos, crypto jew, anusims, but i've already thought ahead of you on that one buster, the murranos were people who were outwardly catholic but practiced judaism in secret.
"the jew became the scapegoat of all misfortune, economic or  otherwise" (mowbray).
the simpsons archive © richard kalman (curlyrk@aol.com) and josh belkin (jgbel@aol.com),  tufts university, november 29, 2001.
this site contains some copyrighted materials the use of which has not always been specifically authorized by the copyright owner.
while this goes against what maimonides taught, at the same time, these actions  are fulfilling and gratifying to his lifestyle, which is encouraged by the  tradition.
sassoon, solomon david.
after  eating expired canned meat, homer returns to the store to complain, where he is  quick to accept ten pounds of moldy seafood as an apology, which only makes him  sicker.
as he noted in the guide to the perplexed, "the true perfection of man [is] the possession of the highest intellectual faculties" (minkin 417).
fueled by the inflammatory oratory of archdeacon martinez of seville,  who preached a holy war against the jews, and called for the destruction of  local synagogues, pogroms spread across spain in june of 1391, followed by mass  conversions.
while homer does many life-rewarding things, he also does many things that go against the sephardic tradition.
neither maimonides nor any self-respecting sephardic teacher would ever approve of such outrageous display.
aside, from her immense knowledge of history, mathematics, and the  sciences, lisa is also an accomplished musician.
for example, poems by sephardic writers such as moses ibn ezra convey the importance of living life to its fullest.
for example, "the  simpsons," the longest running primetime animated show, has often been  praised for being one of the most intelligent and provocative television  programs on the air.
"the simpsons" often utilizes the technique known as irony to illustrate a particular message.
posted by: simpsons fan at july 13, 2003 08:10 pm this may lead to a revival of the sephardic cultural traditions that we've either forgotten or never learned about.
man, i love that couscous.
obviously, homer in this case did not follow maimonides' instructions to eat one-third less than the quantity that would make one feel full (minkin 382).
to a lunchroom filled with students (richmond 172).
although no outcome was  reached, a bad precedent had been set.
the writers behind "the simpsons" are preaching that a  certain degree of patience is necessary for a teacher to be effective, in  agreement with maimonides.
"the simpsons" has an audience that ranges from young children to adults, and affects viewers on many levels.
from andy warhol's eccentric artwork to britney spears, pop culture has reflected the times and ideas of generations past in a convenient, easy to understand fashion.
the term often used today for such  a person is "renaissance man," but aside from people like leonardo da  vinci who had exceptional talents in a range of fields, many sephardic jews  also fit this category.
writers like azaria have deftly incorporated jewish wisdom into various  episodes, much of which includes aspects of the sephardic tradition.
in accordance with title 17 u.s.c. section 107, the material on this site is distributed without profit to those who have expressed a prior interest in receiving the included information for research and educational purposes.
bart simpson, who can be seen as  the yetzer ha-ra personified, shows no respect for his teachers, and thus  damages his ability to learn.
this is displayed by showing  the opposite of the ideal at bart and lisa's school.
although no outcome was reached, a bad precedent had been set.
haim beinart said "what started in seville in 1391 was like a  spark in a forest fire" (425).
he even has  dreams of mr. burns flying into bed with him.
the details of the  show have a striking resemblance to the situation jews encountered during the  spanish inquisition.
this responsibility is undertaken by the people of springfield in the episode titled "the pta disbands" (richmond 172).
his judgment is often poor, but he usually means well, especially in  regards to his family.
the creators of "the simpsons" know that they have a powerful effect on their audience and have the opportunity to impart some wisdom onto their faithful cadre of fans.
he adorns a cowboy hat to cover up his traditional indian locks and at times even tried to feign interest in baseball, america's national pastime.
in  addition to the "marranos" of spain and portugal, crypto jews also  existed in north africa in the 12th century.
long time writer mike reiss says, "there have always been a lot of jewish writers on 'the simpsons" (pinsky 109).
according to david gitlitz, in spite of the attempts of crypto jews, most  of these conversos had been completely assimilated by the end of the 17th  century (gitlitz x).
the world of moses maimonides.
countless viewers take what they see on the show and make it part of their lifestyle, which invigorates sephardic thoughts and teachings into society.
in fact, spain was losing many of  its colonies throughout the world, achieving a smaller sphere of influence, and  its source of wealth was drying up.
irwin, willam, mark t. conrad and aeon j. skoble, ed.
in the episode "much apu about nothing,"  citizens of springfield are unhappy with the high rate of taxes, and the  government leader, mayor quimby, blames the economic problem on illegal  immigrants.
gitlitz say that the meager remnants that resurfaced in the 20th century are the exception to the rule.
according to the simpsons, argues that "the simpsons from time to time suggest an underlying element of what might be called crypto-judaism" (121).
if anyone truly understands the difficulties of living one way, and believing something completely different, it is "simpsons" character apu nahasapeemapetilon (voiced by azaria).
the gospel according to the simpsons.
the fourth grade teacher ms. edna krabappel and principal  seymour skinner also take little care in finding diverse material to teach  their pupils.
many jews know that sephardim eat rice and beans on  pesach, and know of the unique torah trope of the tradition, but little else.
apu curses himself for letting down his family, "i've betrayed my indian heritage, sir.
in the episode "much apu about nothing," citizens of springfield are unhappy with the high rate of taxes, and the government leader, mayor quimby, blames the economic problem on illegal immigrants.
and as early as the mid 13th century, christians were allowed to enter temples and attempt to persuade jews to convert as they were forced to sit and listen.
in "lisa vs. malibu stacy," she creates a doll of her own for little girls to respect as opposed to the popular "barbie" like malibu stacy, which is nothing more then a chauvinistic male stereotype.
in the episode "wild barts can't be broken," homer's  favorite baseball team wins the pennant, and he celebrates with heavy drinking,  which leads him to destroy the local school.
factsofisrael.com news, comments and links « previous: chechnean  islamic terrorists linked to al-qa'eda | main | next: palestinian genocide  bomber murders four israelis » october 27, 2002 email this entry     printer friendly  version     digg this the simpsons: a family of sephardic  jews?
yet every opportunity he has to  declare his true self, smithers reluctantly holds back.
in 1263, saint raymond of  penyafort and nacmanides were forced to debate the reliability of the talmud  before a congregation in barcelona (gitlitz 4).
the term often used today for such a person is "renaissance man," but aside from people like leonardo da vinci who had exceptional talents in a range of fields, many sephardic jews also fit this category.
for more information go to: http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/17/107.shtml.
finally, lisa is a devoted sister and daughter who loves her family very much, and while she may be the classic "overachiever," she nevertheless remains the model of sephardic versatility.
the simpsons archive (www.snpp.com) has a strange but funny thesis that  holds that the simpsons are actually a family of sephardic jews: the sephardic tradition encompasses the culture of the jews who  descended from spain prior to the expulsion in 1492.
the fourth grade teacher ms. edna krabappel and principal seymour skinner also take little care in finding diverse material to teach their pupils.
homer also eats to excess on many other occasions, which  causes him physical harm, and creates problems for himself and his family.
he carries a picture of his boss mr. burns, with whom he is infatuated, in his wallet alongside his dog.
to a  lunchroom filled with students (richmond 172).
instead, in "grade school confidential," skinner admits that he loves working at an elementary school because "the children will believe anything you tell them."
the horror and shear unfairness of the expulsion of jews from spain was  demonstrated in a 1996 episode of "the simpsons."