" sometimes, flanders' zeal goes too far.
" william romanowski is looking for a video of "homer the  heretic," an episode of the simpsons, to use in the class he teaches at  calvin college, a christian school in grand rapids, mich. the author of pop culture wars: religion and the role of entertainment  in american life, romanowski said the episode is instructive because  "it tries to get at the role god and religion play in people's everyday  lives."
it has been a healthy and sustained ratings performer for the fox network.
asked by bart what his religious beliefs are, homer answers, "you  know, the one with all the well-meaning rules that don't work in real life.
instead, he wants to start his own sybaritic religion, which occasions a divine visitation.
" homer, who works at a nuclear-power plant, often expresses gratitude at the dinner table, even extending well beyond sustenance, thanking god "most of all for nuclear power, which is yet to cause a single, proven fatality, at least in this country."
search the simpsons archive: search help [ faqs, guides & lists | upcoming episodes | episode guide | capsules  |miscellaneous | web links | news | about | home ] last updated on february 9, 2000 by jouni paakkinen (jouni@snpp.com)
he answers their prayers and intervenes in their world.
he answers their prayers and intervenes in their  world.
bart acknowledges, "part of this d-minus belongs to god."
search the simpsons archive: search helpsearch the simpsons archive: search help [ faqs, guides & lists | upcoming episodes | episode guide | capsules |miscellaneous | web links | news | about | home ] last updated on february 9, 2000 by jouni paakkinen (jouni@snpp.com)
"it's generally been acknowledged that the simpsons is one of the most serious and seriously ambitious shows on television," he said.
when otto, the stoned school-bus driver, becomes homeless he is invited by bart to move into the simpsons' garage.
as cartoonist matt groening's show approaches a new season, it continues to be a source of controversy, this time drawing criticism from a roman catholic watchdog organization.
" william romanowski is looking for a video of "homer the heretic," an episode of the simpsons, to use in the class he teaches at calvin college, a christian school in grand rapids, mich. the author of pop culture wars: religion and the role of entertainment in american life, romanowski said the episode is instructive because "it tries to get at the role god and religion play in people's everyday lives."
i don't know what i can do.
still, ned takes his faith seriously, is righteous but not self-righteous, and is not a hypocrite.
three years  into the series, in 1992, the show was the subject of a favorable master's  thesis at pat robertson's regent university.
age of consent: the rise of relativism and the corruption of popularculture.
"prayer, the last refuge of the scoundrel," lisa scoffs as she  overhears her older brother.
if everyone here were like  ned flanders, there'd be no need for heaven: we'd already be there.
when flanders suffers a breakdown and is condemned by the church, homer tells members of the congregation, "this man has turned every cheek on his body.
bart's  grace at mealtime is likely to be, "rub a dub, dub, thanks for the  grub.
i've even kept kosher just to be on the safe side!
in many ways, in fact, they are quintessentially weak, good-hearted sinners who rely on their faith -- but only when absolutely necessary.
" the flanders family is portrayed "fallibly but sympathetically," saidmichael glodo, professor of old testament and preaching at reformed theological seminary in oviedo.
no one would mistake homer simpson and his family for saints.
nonetheless, a freak snow storm closes school the next day, saving him.
"we need a nation closer to the waltons than the simpsons," presidentgeorge bush told the national religious broadcasters in 1992.
we show him, and god has five fingers -- unlike the simpsons, who  only have four." mike scully, the series' executive producer, said the show tries to  reflect through its characters the fact that faith plays a substantial part in  many families' lives, although it is seldom portrayed on television.
some in the religious world have recognized this phenomenon.
"weirdly, remarkably, the show just kept getting better," jeff macgregor wrote recently in the new york times. "since the passing of seinfeld last year, the simpsons is left  alone as the only laugh-out-loud show on television," he said.
the simpsons attend springfield community church, with the unctuous rev.  timothy lovejoy in the pulpit, and a marquee featuring a variety of challenging  messages, such as "god, the original love connection," and  "sunday, the miracle of shame."
" the simpsons, with its numerous catch phrases ("d'oh!"
when flanders suffers a breakdown  and is condemned by the church, homer tells members of the congregation,  "this man has turned every cheek on his body.
"we try to represent people's honest attitudes about religion," he said.
so why should i spend half my sunday hearing about how i'm going to hell?" god replies: "hmm, you've got a point there.
i don't know who or what god is exactly.
"dear lord," marge prays, "if you spare this town from  becoming a smoking hole in the ground, i'll try to be a better christian.
sometimes, it's more a case of "suffer the little children."
and, if anything, time has enhanced the show's quality -- at least among critics.
in many  ways, in fact, they are quintessentially weak, good-hearted sinners who rely on  their faith -- but only when absolutely necessary.
i've even kept kosher just to be on  the safe side!
the denomination is not specified, and homer's understanding of theology is undeniably hazy.
so why should  i spend half my sunday hearing about how i'm going to hell?" god replies: "hmm, you've got a point there.
" -- lisa simpson, age 8 when the animated television series the simpsons appeared more than  a decade ago, it was denounced by many throughout the nation -- and nowhere  more vigorously than from america's pulpits.
the family says prayers before meals, believes in a literal heaven and  hell, and ridicules cults.
are we the most pathetic  family in the world, or what?" as in many households, prayer at the simpsons is most fervent in the face  of disaster, like a hurricane or a comet bearing down on their cartoon town of  springfield, and often comes in the form of a bargain: "dear god, this is marge simpson.
ned is flabbergasted by this.
"so i figure i should try to live right and worship you in my own  way," homer concludes.
the door, a religious humor magazine, put the series on a recent  cover, with an article titled "the springfield blessing: the theology of  homer simpson."
i've done everything the bible says; even the stuff that contradicts the other stuff!
oh, the next time there's a canned-food  drive, i'll give the poor something they actually like, instead of old lima  beans and pumpkin mix.
"it is the antidote to what ails most of the medium, at once smart and anarchic, subtle and raucous.
" the door, a religious humor magazine, put the series on a recent cover, with an article titled "the springfield blessing: the theology of homer simpson."
but he changes his mind about church and religion a few minutes later when he is dragged from his burning house by ned flanders, an evangelical christian who lives next door.
the group, the catholic league for  religious and civil rights, cited several jokes about the church.
after more than a decade, it remains colorful proof that  'excellence' and 'television' needn't be concepts of mutual exclusion.
"you prayed  for this.
" or a nuclear meltdown, begun at homer's workplace.
"so i figure i should try to live right and worship you in my own way," homer concludes.
"they have captured a very common understanding of who god is,"  said glodo, of reformed theological seminary.
you saw what happened.
"i'm not a bad guy," he tells god, who wears a robe and sandals,  but whose visage is unseen.
"not only do the simpsons go to church every sunday and pray, they actually speak to god from time to time.
"we need a nation closer to the waltons than the simpsons,"  presidentgeorge bush told the national religious broadcasters in 1992.
has had an undeniable impact on  american culture.
all i know is: he's a force more powerful than mom  and dad put together, and you owe him big."
"it's generally been acknowledged that the simpsons is one of  the most serious and seriously ambitious shows on television," he said.
" not all the crises that call for prayer are cosmic events.
what more could i do?" moral dilemmas frequently confront characters, everything from stealing --  cookies from a jar or an illegal cable tv hookup -- to adultery, or selling  your soul to the devil, which homer does for a donut and bart does for a  formula one race car and for $5 in cash.
© the orlando sentinel, august 15, 1999."whether or not the soul is real, bart, it's the symbol of everything that is fine inside us.
asked by bart what his religious beliefs are, homer answers, "you know, the one with all the well-meaning rules that don't work in real life.
i've always been nice to people!
"the simpsons do function in a moral universe, and, while the show  seems to make fun of moral standards, it often upholds those same standards in  a back-handed way," said knight, author ofthe
"it's a very functional view  of religion."
if you stop this hurricane and save  our family, we will be forever grateful and recommend you to all of our  friends.
the denomination is not specified,  and homer's understanding of theology is undeniably hazy.
age of consent: the rise  of relativism and the corruption of popularculture.
"while it may not completely resonate with the evangelical judeo-christian belief system," wrote beth keller, "the simpsons does portray a family searching for moral and theological ideals.
"right-wingers complain there's no god on tv," groening said in  a recent interview inmother jones magazine.
"they are simple, sincere, earnest -- a good package of virtue, especially in a post-modern culture where cynicism and irony and satire are the prevailing sentiments.
" conservative cultural critic michael medved agrees.
i've done everything the bible says; even the stuff that  contradicts the other stuff!
"it's a very functional view of religion."
but both the initial denunciations and the recent controversy obscure the  fact that god, christianity and christians are more a part of the simpsons'  daily lives than any other prime-time network series, at least shows not  specifically devoted to religion, such astouched by an angel and seventh heaven.
this is not to say that when the old testament prophet isaiah said "a little child shall lead them," he had young bart simpson in mind.
statistically speaking, there is more prayer onthe simpsons than on any sitcom in broadcast history.
"while it may not completely  resonate with the evangelical judeo-christian belief system," wrote beth  keller, "the simpsons does portray a family searching for moral and  theological ideals."
but he changes his mind about church and religion a  few minutes later when he is dragged from his burning house by ned flanders, an  evangelical christian who lives next door.
as cartoonist matt groening's show approaches a new season, it  continues to be a source of controversy, this time drawing criticism from a  roman catholic watchdog organization.
i don't know  who or what god is exactly.
he is fired from springfield elementary school, where he is filling in as principal, for saying "let's thank the lord" over the intercom.
instead, he wants to start his own sybaritic religion, which  occasions a divine visitation.
and in the christian monthlyprism, published by evangelicals for social action, teacherbill dark wrote that the series is "the most pro-family, god-preoccupied, home-based program on television.
all i know is: he's a force more powerful than mom and dad put together, and you owe him big."
uh, christianity." but homer does not doubt the existence of god, even when he decides not to go to church.
"dear lord," marge prays, "if you spare this town from becoming a smoking hole in the ground, i'll try to be a better christian.
"you prayed for this.
three years into the series, in 1992, the show was the subject of a favorable master's thesis at pat robertson's regent university.
"i work hard and i love my kids.
ned is a doofus -- there is no other word for him.
" homer, who works at a nuclear-power plant, often expresses gratitude at  the dinner table, even extending well beyond sustenance, thanking god  "most of all for nuclear power, which is yet to cause a single, proven  fatality, at least in this country."
bart's grace at mealtime is likely to be, "rub a dub, dub, thanks for the grub.
you know, sometimes even i'd rather be watching football."
" yes, homer replies, "but doesn't the bible also say, 'thou shalt not take moochers into thy hut?'
the gospel according to homer by mark i. pinsky © the orlando sentinel, august 15, 1999.
in one case,  pressure from network officials this past season forced the show's producers to  alter a line about the catholic church from the original show when the program  aired in rerun this summer.
after a particularly disastrous thanksgiving day, homer loses it as he offers thanks "for the occasional moments of peace and love our family's experienced . . .
i've always been nice to  people!
"not only do the  simpsons go to church every sunday and pray, they actually speak to god from  time to time.
you know, sometimes even  i'd rather be watching football."
i feel like  st. augustine of hippo after his conversion by ambrose of milan."
"what i do appreciate about the simpsons is that evil often -- if not always -- is punished with consequences," saidrobert knight, director of cultural studies for the conservative, washington, d.c.-based family research council.
he is such a  goody-goody that he doesn't let his equally devout children use dice when  playing board games because the playing pieces are "wicked."
" the flanders family is portrayed "fallibly but sympathetically,"  saidmichael glodo, professor of old testament and preaching at reformed  theological seminary in oviedo.
"wow, dad, you took a baptism for me," says a startled bart.
i don't drink or dance or swear!
the group, the catholic league for religious and civil rights, cited several jokes about the church.
"what i do appreciate about the simpsons is that evil often --  if not always -- is punished with consequences," saidrobert knight,  director of cultural studies for the conservative, washington, d.c.-based  family research council.
"it is  the antidote to what ails most of the medium, at once smart and anarchic,  subtle and raucous.
their next-door neighbors are committed evangelical  christians.
the nation's moral leaders  thundered that this nuclear but dysfunctional family was the latest evidence of  the fall of western civilization.
"whether or not the soul is real, bart, it's the symbol of everything that  is fine inside us.
"i know we didn't ask for this, homer," says marge, "but  doesn't the bible say, 'whatsoever you do to the least of my brothers, that you  do unto me . . . ?'
in one case, pressure from network officials this past season forced the show's producers to alter a line about the catholic church from the original show when the program aired in rerun this summer.
what more could i do?" moral dilemmas frequently confront characters, everything from stealing -- cookies from a jar or an illegal cable tv hookup -- to adultery, or selling your soul to the devil, which homer does for a donut and bart does for a formula one race car and for $5 in cash.
"prayer, the last refuge of the scoundrel," lisa scoffs as she overhears her older brother.
and, if anything, time has enhanced the show's quality -- at least  among critics.
"we try to represent people's honest attitudes about religion,"  he said.
the simpsons is consistently irreverent toward organized religion's failings and excesses -- as it is with most other aspects of modern life.
it has been a healthy and sustained ratings performer for the  fox network.
i feel like st. augustine of hippo after his conversion by ambrose of milan."
their next-door neighbors are committed evangelical christians.
"homer, what did you say?" as the glow subsides, homer returns to his natural state: "i said,  shut your ugly face, flanders!"
desperate, bart asks god for one more day to study.
" yes, homer replies, "but doesn't the bible also say, 'thou shalt not  take moochers into thy hut?'
"i heard you last night, bart," lisa tells him.
"don't have a cow, man" "eat my shorts" "underachiever and proud of it" "ay, caramba!") has had an undeniable impact on american culture.
this is not to say that when the old testament prophet isaiah said "a  little child shall lead them," he had young bart simpson in mind.
" when the animated television series the simpsons appeared more than a decade ago, it was denounced by many throughout the nation -- and nowhere more vigorously than from america's pulpits.
oh, the next time there's a canned-food drive, i'll give the poor something they actually like, instead of old lima beans and pumpkin mix.
given temporary custody of the  simpson children because of their parents apparent neglect, ned attempts to  baptize the children in the springfield river, only to be interrupted in the  midst of the rite by homer.
the family says prayers before meals, believes in a literal heaven and hell, and ridicules cults.
the simpsons is consistently irreverent toward organized religion's  failings and excesses -- as it is with most other aspects of modern life.
after a particularly  disastrous thanksgiving day, homer loses it as he offers thanks "for the  occasional moments of peace and love our family's experienced . . .
the simpsons attend springfield community church, with the unctuous rev. timothy lovejoy in the pulpit, and a marquee featuring a variety of challenging messages, such as "god, the original love connection," and "sunday, the miracle of shame."
"how do you feel?" homer -- temporarily aglow -- replies, "oh, bartholomew.
when otto, the stoned school-bus driver, becomes homeless he is invited by  bart to move into the simpsons' garage.
whenthe simpsons characters are faced with crises, they turn to god.
nonetheless, a freak snow storm closes school the  next day, saving him.
yet even flanders questions his faith when his home and his business are singled out for destruction by a hurricane, comparing himself to job: "why me, lord?
and in the christian monthlyprism, published by  evangelicals for social action, teacherbill dark wrote that the series  is "the most pro-family, god-preoccupied, home-based program on  television.
but both the initial denunciations and the recent controversy obscure the fact that god, christianity and christians are more a part of the simpsons' daily lives than any other prime-time network series, at least shows not specifically devoted to religion, such astouched by an angel and seventh heaven.
if you stop this hurricane and save our family, we will be forever grateful and recommend you to all of our friends.
"i'm not a bad guy," he tells god, who wears a robe and sandals, but whose visage is unseen.
in "bart  gets an f," the boy is threatened with repeating a grade if he fails a  test for which he is not prepared.
he is fired from springfield elementary school, where he is  filling in as principal, for saying "let's thank the lord" over the  intercom.
"they have captured a very common understanding of who god is," said glodo, of reformed theological seminary.
"weirdly, remarkably, the show just kept getting better," jeff macgregor wrote recently in the new york times. "since the passing of seinfeld last year, the simpsons is left alone as the only laugh-out-loud show on television," he said.
however, god is not mocked.
the simpson's blessings are decidedly mixed.
in "bart gets an f," the boy is threatened with repeating a grade if he fails a test for which he is not prepared.
"homer, what did you say?" as the glow subsides, homer returns to his natural state: "i said, shut your ugly face, flanders!"
"they are simple, sincere, earnest -- a  good package of virtue, especially in a post-modern culture where cynicism and  irony and satire are the prevailing sentiments.
are we the most pathetic family in the world, or what?" as in many households, prayer at the simpsons is most fervent in the face of disaster, like a hurricane or a comet bearing down on their cartoon town of springfield, and often comes in the form of a bargain: "dear god, this is marge simpson.
"right-wingers complain there's no god on tv," groening said in a recent interview inmother jones magazine.
whenthe simpsons characters are faced with  crises, they turn to god.
if everyone here were like ned flanders, there'd be no need for heaven: we'd already be there.
uh,  christianity." but homer does not doubt the existence of god, even when he decides not to  go to church.
abused constantly by his oafish next-door neighbor, the relentlessly upbeat ned returns only love and good works.
abused constantly by his oafish next-door neighbor, the relentlessly  upbeat ned returns only love and good works.
yet even flanders questions his faith when his home and his business are  singled out for destruction by a hurricane, comparing himself to job: "why me, lord?
desperate, bart asks god for one more day to  study.
after more than a decade, it remains colorful proof that 'excellence' and 'television' needn't be concepts of mutual exclusion.
"don't have a cow, man" "eat my shorts" "underachiever  and proud of it" "ay, caramba!")
now your prayers have been answered.
"i know we didn't ask for this, homer," says marge, "but doesn't the bible say, 'whatsoever you do to the least of my brothers, that you do unto me . . . ?'
where have i gone wrong?
we show him, and god has five fingers -- unlike the simpsons, who only have four." mike scully, the series' executive producer, said the show tries to reflect through its characters the fact that faith plays a substantial part in many families' lives, although it is seldom portrayed on television.
given temporary custody of the simpson children because of their parents apparent neglect, ned attempts to baptize the children in the springfield river, only to be interrupted in the midst of the rite by homer.
he is such a goody-goody that he doesn't let his equally devout children use dice when playing board games because the playing pieces are "wicked."
the nation's moral leaders thundered that this nuclear but dysfunctional family was the latest evidence of the fall of western civilization.
still,  ned takes his faith seriously, is righteous but not self-righteous, and is not  a hypocrite.
"the simpsons do function in a moral universe, and, while the show seems to make fun of moral standards, it often upholds those same standards in a back-handed way," said knight, author ofthe
i  don't know what i can do.