get back in the box - the genx reader - life inc - media virus - nothing sacred - open source democracy - playing the future - program or be programmed - stoned free - comics > - a.d.d. - club zero-g - testament - documentaries - events - press - login « clonaid | main | let it grow » saturday apr 11 2009 bart simpson, anti-hero saturday, april 11, 2009 at 1:51pm the simpsons are the closest thing in america to a national media literacy program.
" "we take subjects on the show," added reiss, who was jean's classmate, "that we can parody.
the character bart gets revenge  against his principal and enjoys a terrific prank.
"homer certainly falls for every trick," admitted reiss, "even believing the publishers clearing house mailing that he is a winner."
bart is a ten-year-old media strategist - or at least an unconscious media manipulator - and his exploits reveal the complexity of the current pop media from the inside out.
although most well-behaved adult viewers will soldier on through a story, kids raised with remotes in their hands have much less reverence for well-crafted story arcs, and zap away without a moment's hesitation.
i want to leave a comment directly on this site » article title: article url:
consider, for a moment, the way we thought of media before this cartoon family quite literally satirized us into consciousness.
this has fundamentally  altered their perception of and reverence for the television image.
at least not without a fight.
bart skateboards through each episode, demonstrating the necessary ironic detachment needed to move through increasingly disorienting edits.
this is what it means to "enter-tain" -- literally "to hold within" -- and it only works on a captive audience.
the people i call "screenagers," those raised with  interactive devices in their media arsenals, are natives in a mediaspace where  even the best television producers are immigrants.
author email (optional): author url (optional): post: ↓ | ↑ some html allowed:           notify me of follow-up comments via email.
it is  left to bart's mom and dad to dig him out by hand.
audiences delight in watching bart effortlessly outwit his  parents, teachers, and local institutions.
these writers make their points both in the plots  of the particular episodes and in the cut-and-paste style of the show.
they conduct  interviews with the unseen timmy--an opportunity bart exploits to make  political progress against his mean school principal.
"the overarching point is that the media's stupid and manipulative, tv is a narcotic, and all big institutions are corrupt and evil."
it is left to bart's mom and dad to dig him out by hand.
we all come from this background of comedy that has never been big and popular--it's this letterman school or 'saturday night live,' harvard lampoon, national lampoon.
they  existed to pave over the breaks.
every episode has at least one film reenactment, usually from  hitchcock or kubrick, to satirize an aspect of the modern cultural experience.
as the family reminisces together about past events, bart  raises a seeming non sequitur.
these media references form the basis for the show's role as a media literacy  primer.
parodying itself," jean told me.
they don't watch tv, they watch the  television, guiding their own paths through the entirety of media rather than  following the prescribed course of any one programmer.
with an expenditure of, perhaps, .0001 calories, the anxious viewer is liberated from tortuous imprisonment and free to watch another program.
instead of watching one program,  they skim through ten at a time.
helplessly we follow him into danger, disease, or divorce, and just when we can't take any more tension without bursting, our hero finds a way out.
the thesis of the simpsons' is nihilism.
a person who  is doing rather than receiving is much less easily provoked into a state of  tension.
the show's writers quickly responded,  letting bart say during one episode, "hey, man, we're just like the  waltons.
"it was an amusing episode," replies bart, half looking at the camera, before he quickly adds ". . .
these media references form the basis for the show's role as a media literacy primer.
co-opting a media event out of real history, when a little girl struggled for  life at the bottom of a well as rescuers worked to save her and the world  listened via radio, bart uses his toy radio to fool the world and launch his  own media virus.
the show provides a succession of "aha" moments - those moments when we recognize which other forms of media are being parodied.
since the time of the bible and aristotle through today's over-determined three-act action movies, the best tool at the programmer's disposal has been the story.
the  opening credits always begin with bart writing a different message on his  classroom bulletin board and contain a different saxophone solo from his  sister, lisa.
the newsreader is just another middle-aged  man manipulating his joystick.
so, then, what kind of television does appeal to such an audience?
with an  expenditure of, perhaps, .0001 calories, the anxious viewer is liberated from  tortuous imprisonment and free to watch another program.
"the writers empathize with her more than any other character.
you can either use the [trackback url] for this entry, or link to your response directly.
by doing so, the show's writers help us in our  efforts to develop immunity to their coercive effects.
"these days television in general seems to be feeding on itself.
as writers, they see themselves as "feeding" the show and  using other media references as the fodder.
"i find you can get away with all sorts of unusual ideas if you  present them with a smile on your face," he said in an early 1990's  interview.
that's not what they're watching for.
such self-consciousness is what allows "the simpsons" to serve as a lesson in modern media discontinuity.
his name intended as an anagram for "brat," bart embodies youth  culture's ironic distance from media and its willingness to dissemble and  resplice even the most sacred meme constructs.
while most episodes of the simpsons incorporate a dramatic nod to such  storytelling convention, the screenagers watching the program couldn't care  less about whether principle skinner gets married, or if homer finds his donut.
she has a more intellectual reaction to how disquieting her life has become.
finally, in the story, bart remembers that he has put a label on his radio toy, earmarking it "property of bart simpson."
he calls for help, admitting what he has done.
they existed to pave over the breaks.
the simpsons provided its writers with a durable viral shell for their most irreverent memes: "it's as though we finally found a vehicle for this sensibility, where we can do the kind of humor and the attitudes, yet in a package that more people are willing to embrace.
he decides he better get it out of the  well before the radio, and his own identity, is discovered.
programs that  celebrate the screenager's irreverence for the image, while providing a new  sort of narrative arc for the sponsor-wary audience.
the simpsons were born to provide the tracey ullman  show with a way of cutting to commercial breaks.
if the simpsons fades in popularity in the coming decade, it will merely be a  testament to the show having accomplished its purpose.
news teams set up camp around the well, much in the fashion they gather around  any real-world media event like the oj trial or waco stand-off.
we had no reason not to trust the editorial decisions of the media managers upon whom we depended to present, accurately, what was going on in the world around us.
no matter how much we complain about our kids' short attention spans or even their attention deficit disorder, their ability to disconnect from programming has released them from the hypnotic spell of even the best tv mesmerizers.
in fact, most of us didn't even realize such decisions were being made at all.
their very function as a form of media was to bridge the discontinuity inherent to broadcast television.
in fact, most of  us didn't even realize such decisions were being made at all.
the joy of traditional television storytelling is simply getting to the ending.
"the simpsons" takes place in a town called springfield, named after the fictional location of "father knows best," making it clear that the simpson family is meant as a nineties answer to the media reality presented to us in the fifties and sixties.
in this sense, the simpsons deconstructs  and informs the media soup of which it is a part.
in the mainstream media, only kids' tv appears sufficiently innocuous to permit such high levels of irreverence.
the "simpsons'" writers also create little slots for the most attentive viewers to glean extra memes.
media used to be a top-down affair.
it sounds a little insidious because i have kids of my own, and the reason we're a hit is because so many kids watch us and make us a huge enterprise.
but lisa feels completely alienated by the media around her," jean  warned me.
in his attempt to get the damning evidence out from the bottom of the well, however, bart really does fall in.
they conduct interviews with the unseen timmy--an opportunity bart exploits to make political progress against his mean school principal.
this show is so irreverent that it  provoked an attack from george bush, who pleaded for the american family to be  more like the waltons than the simpsons.
article excerpt (optional): site name: site url (optional): author name: contact book business katinka matson the brockman agency 212-935-8900 media inquiries media[at]rushkoff[dot]com talks talks[at]rushkoff[dot]com all else contact[at]rushkoff[dot]com twitter @rushkoff follow @rushkoff on twitter.
"i find you can get away with all sorts of unusual ideas if you present them with a smile on your face," he said in an early 1990's interview.
it's the ethos and behavior embodied by screenager role-model and anti-hero bart simpson.
even if he and the other writers claim to have no particular agenda -  which is debatable - they readily admit to serving the media machine as a  whole.
and now so many of our writers are themselves the children of tv writers.
they did not comment on social issues as much as they did the media imagery around a particular social issue.
the  nintendo joystick further empowers them while compounding the programmer's  dilemma.
consider,  for a moment, the way we thought of media before this cartoon family quite  literally satirized us into consciousness.
for what began as an entertaining interstitial material for an alternative network variety show has revealed itself, in the 21st century, as nothing short of a media revolution.
at first bart is bored with the gift and plays with a labeler he also received instead.
even if he and the other writers claim to have no particular agenda - which is debatable - they readily admit to serving the media machine as a whole.
but we call the stuff on television programming for a reason.
as a result, we came to think of information as something that got fed to us from above.
gospel truth piped into the home from the top of some glass building.
we all come from this background of comedy that has never been  big and popular--it's this letterman school or 'saturday night live,' harvard  lampoon, national lampoon.
we'll take super bowl sunday, and the parody the bud bowl, and how merchants capitalize on the event."
the show's supervisors through the simpsons' golden years of the mid-1990's, mike reiss and al jean, were both harvard lampoon veterans.
rather than drawing us into  the hypnotic spell of the traditional storyteller, the program invites us to  make active and conscious comparisons of its own scenes with those of other,  less transparent, media forms.
in our current self-fed media, according to the writers of "the simpsons," a real event can have much less impact than a constructed virus, especially when its intention is revealed.
the song hits number one on the charts.
for the  most part, television stories program their audiences by bringing them into a  state of tension.
while they experience their function as simply to "stoke the furnace," the media images they choose to dissemble are the ones they feel need to be exposed and criticized.
having been raised on media themselves, the diet coke-drinking,  baseball-jacketed pair gravitated toward parodying the media aspects of the  subjects they pick.
homer goes to college or onto a game show.
they encourage us to  question the ways institutional forces are presented to us through the media  and urge us to see the fickle nature of our own responses.
elsewhere design by amy e. martin
for his self-portrait in a spin magazine article, groening simply drew a picture of bart and then scribbled the likeness of his own glasses and beard over it.
a person who is doing rather than receiving is much less easily provoked into a state of tension.
he creates a little boy named timmy o'toole, who  cries for help from the bottom of the well.
bart finally takes interest in the toy when he realizes its subversive value.
we used to be there, too."
bart knows he's on a tv show and knows the kinds of tricks his own writers use to fill up airtime.
bart has fun renaming things and leaving messages like "property of bart simpson" on every object in his home; one such label on a beer in the fridge convinces homer that the can is off limits.
"it's very segmented, so we just lift things in and out.
lisa, the brilliant member of the family, maintains a faith in the social institutions of her world, works hard to get good grades in school, and even entered and won a reader's digest essay contest about patriotism. "
then the character is put into jeopardy of one  sort or another.
by pretending to be a kids' cartoon, the show gets away with murder - that is, the virtual murder of our most coercive media iconography and techniques.
while most episodes of the simpsons incorporate a dramatic nod to such storytelling convention, the screenagers watching the program couldn't care less about whether principle skinner gets married, or if homer finds his donut.
in one episode - the show that earned reiss and jean  their first emmy nomination - homer sees a commercial for a product he feels  will make a great birthday gift for bart: a microphone that can be used to  broadcast to a special radio from many feet away (a parody of a toy called mr.  microphone).
but rather than dampening the effects of these gaps in the broadcast stream, they heightened them.
reiss was being deceptively casual.
it is not coincidental  that what began as a bridging device between a show and its commercials--a  media paste--developed into a self-similar media pastiche.
in fact he claimed to have picked the show's  subjects and targets almost randomly: "the show eats up so much material  that we're constantly just stoking it like a furnace when we parody a lot of  movies and tv.
every episode has at least one film reenactment, usually from hitchcock or kubrick, to satirize an aspect of the modern cultural experience.
this show is so irreverent that it provoked an attack from george bush, who pleaded for the american family to be more like the waltons than the simpsons.
these story arcs are there for the adult viewers only.
once we fully recognize  the way that our media attempts to make us care about things we ought best not  care about - from the label on our sneakers to the hair style of our  politicians - bart's lesson in media literacy and activism will be complete.
after playing several smaller-scale pranks, he  accidentally drops the radio down a well and gets the idea for his master plan.
hierarchy and authority are diminished, and the programmers' weapons neutralized.
they will not be  part of a "target market."
while they experience  their function as simply to "stoke the furnace," the media images  they choose to dissemble are the ones they feel need to be exposed and  criticized.
" "right," chimed  in reiss, finally admitting to an agenda.
for the most part, television stories program their audiences by bringing them into a state of tension.
in the old days of television, when character would get into danger, the viewer had little choice but to submit.
in one episode, when homer is in the hospital, the family stands around his sick bed recalling incidents from the past, leading to a satire of the flashback format used by shows to create a new episode out of "greatest hit" scenes from old ones.
"these days  television in general seems to be feeding on itself.
lisa answers, 'oh, we can take anything.
but once there is a real child in the well - and one who had attempted to play a prank on the media - everyone loses interest in the tragedy.
"it's animation," explained jean, who has since returned to writing for the program.
like a trojan horse, the simpsons sneaks into our homes looking like one thing, before releasing something else, far different, into our lives.
there's already a second generation rolling in of people who not only watched tv but watched tons of it.
maybe that's the very reason the  simpsons worked so well.
we feel neither highs nor lows.'
having been raised on media themselves, the diet coke-drinking, baseball-jacketed pair gravitated toward parodying the media aspects of the subjects they pick.
co-opting a media event out of real history, when a little girl struggled for life at the bottom of a well as rescuers worked to save her and the world listened via radio, bart uses his toy radio to fool the world and launch his own media virus.
at first bart is bored with the gift and plays with a labeler he  also received instead.
even bart is in on the gag.
once we fully recognize the way that our media attempts to make us care about things we ought best not care about - from the label on our sneakers to the hair style of our politicians - bart's lesson in media literacy and activism will be complete.
as writers  and producers, reiss and jean served almost as "channels" for the  media, as received through their own attitudinal filters.
when homer  acquired an illegal cable tv hookup, he became so addicted to the tube that he  almost died.
but we call the stuff on television programming for a  reason.
the icon bart conducts a  lesson in advanced media activism.
maybe that's the very reason the simpsons worked so well.
his name intended as an anagram for "brat," bart embodies youth culture's ironic distance from media and its willingness to dissemble and resplice even the most sacred meme constructs.
in the mainstream media, only kids' tv appears sufficiently innocuous  to permit such high levels of irreverence.
this is the american media family turned on its head, told from the point of view of not the smartest member of the family, but the most ironic.
it is not coincidental that what began as a bridging device between a show and its commercials--a media paste--developed into a self-similar media pastiche.
in a spoof of modern american child care, writers re-created a scene from the birds, except here, homer simpson rescued his baby daughter from a daycare center by passing through a playground of menacingly perched babies.
in the old days, the tv image was unchangeable.
this has fundamentally altered their perception of and reverence for the television image.
from with the plastic safety of  his incarnation as an animated character, bart can do much more than just watch  and comment on media iconography.
we are rewarded with self-congratulatory laughter whenever we make a  connection between the scene we are watching and the movie, commercial, or  program on which it is based.
in fact he claimed to have picked the show's subjects and targets almost randomly: "the show eats up so much material that we're constantly just stoking it like a furnace when we parody a lot of movies and tv.
bart has fun renaming things and leaving messages like  "property of bart simpson" on every object in his home; one such  label on a beer in the fridge convinces homer that the can is off limits.
he does this both as a  character in springfield, usa, and as a media icon in our datasphere,  satirizing the real sting's charity recordings.
his father, homer, represents an earlier generation and can easily be manipulated by tv commercials and publicity stunts like clear beer.
in fact the show's mischievous ten-year-old protagonist is really just the screen presence of groening's true inner nature.
" "right," chimed in reiss, finally admitting to an agenda.
"the  simpsons'" creator, comic-strip artist matt groening (rhymes with  "raining"), has long understood the way to mask his countercultural  agenda.
when police and rescuers prove too  fat to get into the well to rescue the boy, a tremendous media event develops.
the joy of traditional television storytelling is simply getting to the  ending.
and now so many of our writers are themselves the children of tv  writers.
the reward is making it through to the character's escape from danger.
so bart, by unconsciously exploiting a do-it-yourself media toy to launch viruses, feeds back to mainstream culture.
if you watch an old episode of 'i love lucy,' you'll find it laborious because they take so long to set something up.
if the simpsons fades in popularity in the coming decade, it will merely be a testament to the show having accomplished its purpose.
so,  then, what kind of television does appeal to such an audience?
we're the mtv generation.
the show provides a succession of "aha"  moments - those moments when we recognize which other forms of media are being  parodied.
finally, in the story, bart  remembers that he has put a label on his radio toy, earmarking it  "property of bart simpson."
there's already a second generation rolling in of people who not only  watched tv but watched tons of it.
helplessly we  follow him into danger, disease, or divorce, and just when we can't take any  more tension without bursting, our hero finds a way out.
the sting song plummets on the charts, and the tv news crews pack up and leave.
"some of the most creative stuff we write comes from just having the simpsons watch tv."
and this is our mass culture.
my response is on my own website » author: (forget stored information)
in timmy's voice he tells  reporters the story of how he came to fall into the well: he is an orphan, new  to the neighborhood, and was rejected for admission to the local school by the  principal because his clothes were too shabby.
as the character moves up the incline plane towards crisis, we follow him vicariously, while taking on his anxiety as our own.
after playing several smaller-scale pranks, he accidentally drops the radio down a well and gets the idea for his master plan.
the audience interested in the program's  subversive doctrine may not be large enough to keep the show in prime time, but  the millions of kids who tune in every week to watch bart's antics are.
by  deconstructing and reframing the images in our media, they allow us to see them  more objectively, or at least with more ironic distance.
but, thanks to interactive technologies like the remote control, and cynical attitudes like bart simpson's, the story just doesn't hold together anymore.
audiences delight in watching bart effortlessly outwit his parents, teachers, and local institutions.
50 calories of human effort.
in one episode - the show that earned reiss and jean their first emmy nomination - homer sees a commercial for a product he feels will make a great birthday gift for bart: a microphone that can be used to broadcast to a special radio from many feet away (a parody of a toy called mr. microphone).
to change the channel would have required getting up out  of the la-z-boy chair, walking up to the television set, and turning the dial.
" bart's reaction to his cultural alienation, on the other hand, is much more of a lesson in genx strategy.
"the overarching point is that  the media's stupid and manipulative, tv is a narcotic, and all big institutions  are corrupt and evil."
that's not what they're  watching for.
the author creates a character we like, and gets us to identify with the hero's plight.
the icon bart conducts a lesson in advanced media activism.
it is as if the show is a living thing, consuming media culture, recombining it, and spitting it out as second-generation media.
these are not simple caricatures, but pop cultural samples,  juxtaposed in order to illuminate the way they effect us.
homer plays with the radio instead, trying to get bart's interest, but the boy knows the toy does not really send messages into the mediaspace; it only broadcasts to one little radio.
once a media figure has entered his animated world, bart can interact with it, satirize it, or even become it.
as writers, they see themselves as "feeding" the show and using other media references as the fodder.
"about two thirds of the writers have been harvard graduates," explained jean, "so it's one of the most literate shows in tv.
but, most importantly, it is through bart  that the writers of "the simpsons" are enabled to voice their own,  more self-conscious comments on the media.
if you  watch an old episode of 'i love lucy,' you'll find it laborious because they  take so long to set something up.
i think if it were a  live-action show, it wouldn't be a hit," reiss concluded quite accurately.
a few rich guys in suits sat in offices at the tops of tall buildings and  decided which stories would be in the headlines or on the evening news, and how  they would be told.
reiss, insisted he promoted no point of view on any issue.
we'll take super bowl  sunday, and the parody the bud bowl, and how merchants capitalize on the  event."
when homer acquired an illegal cable tv hookup, he became so addicted to the tube that he almost died.
when homer believes he may die from a heart attack, he tells the children, 'i  have some terrible news.'
both families are praying for an end to the depression."
they encourage us to question the ways institutional forces are presented to us through the media and urge us to see the fickle nature of our own responses.
we counted on the editors of the new york times to deliver "all the news that's fit to print," and walter cronkite to tell us "that's way it was."
his father, homer, represents an earlier generation and can easily be  manipulated by tv commercials and publicity stunts like clear beer.
since the time of the bible and  aristotle through today's over-determined three-act action movies, the best  tool at the programmer's disposal has been the story.
they acknowledged the jagged edges and recombinant forms behind the glossy patina of american television, and by doing so, initiated its deconstruction.
no, the pleasure of watching the simpsons for its media-literate (read: younger) viewers is the joy of pattern recognition.
like a trojan horse, the simpsons  sneaks into our homes looking like one thing, before releasing something else,  far different, into our lives.
his mother, marge, asks him, "why did you  bring that up?"
"about two thirds of  the writers have been harvard graduates," explained jean, "so it's  one of the most literate shows in tv.
reiss admitted to me, ''i feel that in this way 'the simpsons' is the ultimate of what you call a media virus.
they will not be part of a "target market."
it is as if the show is a living  thing, consuming media culture, recombining it, and spitting it out as  second-generation media.
douglas rushkoff | post a comment | share article in articles
as writers and producers, reiss and jean served almost as "channels" for the media, as received through their own attitudinal filters.
the show  shares many of the viral features of other nineties programs.
today, kids have the experience of manipulating the image on the screen.
they don't watch tv, they watch the television, guiding their own paths through the entirety of media rather than following the prescribed course of any one programmer.
reiss admitted to me, ''i feel that in this way 'the  simpsons' is the ultimate of what you call a media virus.
lisa, the brilliant member of the family, maintains a faith in the  social institutions of her world, works hard to get good grades in school, and  even entered and won a reader's digest essay contest about patriotism. "
"homer  certainly falls for every trick," admitted reiss, "even believing the  publishers clearing house mailing that he is a winner."
when police and rescuers prove too fat to get into the well to rescue the boy, a tremendous media event develops.
the show's writers quickly responded, letting bart say during one episode, "hey, man, we're just like the waltons.
it was right out there.
as a result, we came to think of information as  something that got fed to us from above.
in this  self-reflexive circus, it is only bart who refuses to be fooled by anything.
although the simpsons began on adult television, these animated tidbits became more popular than the live-action portion of the tracy ullman show and fox television decided to give the simpson family their own series.
but we're feeding them a  lot of ideas and notions that they didn't sign on for.
the nintendo joystick further empowers them while compounding the programmer's dilemma.
homer asks what it's like, and she just goes 'eh.'
although most  well-behaved adult viewers will soldier on through a story, kids raised with  remotes in their hands have much less reverence for well-crafted story arcs,  and zap away without a moment's hesitation.
but rather than dampening the effects of these  gaps in the broadcast stream, they heightened them.
and subversive disinformation.
he finds a moral, a product, an agenda, or a strategy - the one preferred by the screenwriter or his sponsor, of course - that rescues him from and danger, and his audience from the awful vicarious anxiety.
for his self-portrait  in a spin magazine article, groening simply drew a picture of bart and then  scribbled the likeness of his own glasses and beard over it.
from with the plastic safety of his incarnation as an animated character, bart can do much more than just watch and comment on media iconography.
as the character moves up the incline plane towards crisis, we  follow him vicariously, while taking on his anxiety as our own.
figures from the television world are represented as cartoon characters not just to accentuate certain features, but to allow for total recontextualization of their identities.
it sounds a little  insidious because i have kids of my own, and the reason we're a hit is because  so many kids watch us and make us a huge enterprise.
they never forget for a moment that they are watching media, and  resent those who try to draw them in and sell them something.
when homer believes he may die from a heart attack, he tells the children, 'i have some terrible news.'
the  simpsons provided its writers with a durable viral shell for their most  irreverent memes: "it's as though we finally found a vehicle for this  sensibility, where we can do the kind of humor and the attitudes, yet in a  package that more people are willing to embrace.
reiss, insisted he promoted no  point of view on any issue.
that's too much effort for a man of homer's  generation, anyway.
bart's joy, clearly, is media . . .
by doing so, the show's writers help us in our efforts to develop immunity to their coercive effects.
but lisa feels completely alienated by the media around her," jean warned me.
link an external response have a response on your own site?
as the family reminisces together about past events, bart raises a seeming non sequitur.
so bart, by unconsciously exploiting a do-it-yourself media toy to  launch viruses, feeds back to mainstream culture.
bart skateboards through each episode, demonstrating the necessary ironic  detachment needed to move through increasingly disorienting edits.
they never forget for a moment that they are watching media, and resent those who try to draw them in and sell them something.
" bart's reaction to  his cultural alienation, on the other hand, is much more of a lesson in genx  strategy.
then the character is put into jeopardy of one sort or another.
the remote control changed all that.
in a spoof of modern american child care, writers re-created a scene from the  birds, except here, homer simpson rescued his baby daughter from a daycare  center by passing through a playground of menacingly perched babies.
no, the pleasure of  watching the simpsons for its media-literate (read: younger) viewers is the joy  of pattern recognition.
"it's  animation," explained jean, who has since returned to writing for the  program.
the simpsons were born to provide the tracey ullman show with a way of cutting to commercial breaks.
we're the  mtv generation.
this is the american media family turned on  its head, told from the point of view of not the smartest member of the family,  but the most ironic.
to change the channel would have required getting up out of the la-z-boy chair, walking up to the television set, and turning the dial.
these are not simple caricatures, but pop cultural samples, juxtaposed in order to illuminate the way they effect us.
they did not comment on social issues as much as they did  the media imagery around a particular social issue.
to create a new comment, use the form below.
eventually the virus grows to the  point where real-world pop musician, sting, and krusty the clown, a tv  personality from within the world of "the simpsons," record an aid  song and video to raise money for the timmy o'toole cause called "we're  sending our love down the well."
" "we take subjects on  the show," added reiss, who was jean's classmate, "that we can  parody.
but, most importantly, it is through bart that the writers of "the simpsons" are enabled to voice their own, more self-conscious comments on the media.
post a new comment enter your information below to add a new comment.
hierarchy and authority are diminished, and the  programmers' weapons neutralized.
no matter how activist the show appears, its creators insist that they have no particular agenda.
i think if it were a live-action show, it wouldn't be a hit," reiss concluded quite accurately.
the next day, front-page stories  calling for the principal's dismissal appear.
the opening credits always begin with bart writing a different message on his classroom bulletin board and contain a different saxophone solo from his sister, lisa.
bart finally takes interest in the toy when he  realizes its subversive value.
this  is what it means to "enter-tain" -- literally "to hold  within" -- and it only works on a captive audience.
just as the  remote control allows viewers to deconstruct the television image, the joystick  has demystified the pixel itself.
many episodes are still about what happens on the simpsons' own tv set, allowing the characters to feed off television, which itself is feeding off other television.
their very function as a form  of media was to bridge the discontinuity inherent to broadcast television.
"the simpsons" takes place in a town called springfield, named after  the fictional location of "father knows best," making it clear that  the simpson family is meant as a nineties answer to the media reality presented  to us in the fifties and sixties.
in his attempt to  get the damning evidence out from the bottom of the well, however, bart really  does fall in.
his mother, marge, asks him, "why did you bring that up?"
the sting  song plummets on the charts, and the tv news crews pack up and leave.
just as the remote control allows viewers to deconstruct the television image, the joystick has demystified the pixel itself.
there's nothing to believe in anymore once you assume that organized structures  and institutions are out to get you.
that's too much effort for a man of homer's generation, anyway.
news teams set up camp around the well, much in the fashion they gather around any real-world media event like the oj trial or waco stand-off.
bart functions as  matt groening's "smile," and the child permits him--and the show's  young, harvard-educated writing staff--to get away with a hell of a lot.
sure, they might sit back and watch a program now and again -- but they do so voluntarily, and with full knowledge of their complicity.
no matter how  much we complain about our kids' short attention spans or even their attention  deficit disorder, their ability to disconnect from programming has released  them from the hypnotic spell of even the best tv mesmerizers.
although the  simpsons began on adult television, these animated tidbits became more popular  than the live-action portion of the tracy ullman show and fox television  decided to give the simpson family their own series.
instead of watching one program, they skim through ten at a time.
we had no reason not to  trust the editorial decisions of the media managers upon whom we depended to  present, accurately, what was going on in the world around us.
he finds a moral, a  product, an agenda, or a strategy - the one preferred by the screenwriter or  his sponsor, of course - that rescues him from and danger, and his audience  from the awful vicarious anxiety.
whether they are convincing  us to buy a product, vote for a candidate, adopt an ideology, or simply confirm  a moral platitude, the underlying reason for making television is to hold onto  our attention and then sell us a bill of goods.
"some of the most creative stuff we write comes from just  having the simpsons watch tv."
the tv became america's unquestioned window to the world, as the simpson's opening sequence - which shows each family member rushing home to gather at the tv set - plainly acknowledges.
like bart, they speak the  language better, and see through those clumsy attempts to program them into  submission.
the newsreader is just another middle-aged man manipulating his joystick.
« clonaid | main | let it  grow » saturday bart simpson, anti-hero saturday, april 11, 2009 at 1:51pm the simpsons are the closest thing in america to a national media literacy  program.
no, television programmers are not programming television sets or evening schedules; they're programming the viewers.
we are rewarded with self-congratulatory laughter whenever we make a connection between the scene we are watching and the movie, commercial, or program on which it is based.
programs that celebrate the screenager's irreverence for the image, while providing a new sort of narrative arc for the sponsor-wary audience.
bart functions as matt groening's "smile," and the child permits him--and the show's young, harvard-educated writing staff--to get away with a hell of a lot.
the show's  supervisors through the simpsons' golden years of the mid-1990's, mike reiss  and al jean, were both harvard lampoon veterans.
no matter how activist the show appears, its creators  insist that they have no particular agenda.
many episodes are  still about what happens on the simpsons' own tv set, allowing the characters  to feed off television, which itself is feeding off other television.
eventually the virus grows to the point where real-world pop musician, sting, and krusty the clown, a tv personality from within the world of "the simpsons," record an aid song and video to raise money for the timmy o'toole cause called "we're sending our love down the well."
the "simpsons'" writers also  create little slots for the most attentive viewers to glean extra memes.
homer asks what it's like, and  she just goes 'eh.'
sure, they might sit back and watch  a program now and again -- but they do so voluntarily, and with full knowledge  of their complicity.
such self-consciousness is what allows  "the simpsons" to serve as a lesson in modern media discontinuity.
where everyone  used to know the catechism, now they all know episodes of 'the twilight zone,'  our common frame of reference."
in  one episode, when homer is in the hospital, the family stands around his sick  bed recalling incidents from the past, leading to a satire of the flashback  format used by shows to create a new episode out of "greatest hit"  scenes from old ones.
in our current self-fed  media, according to the writers of "the simpsons," a real event can  have much less impact than a constructed virus, especially when its intention  is revealed.
murphy brown's  office dartboard, for example, was used as a meme slot; in each episode it has  a different satirical note pinned to it.
for what began as an entertaining interstitial material for an  alternative network variety show has revealed itself, in the 21st century, as  nothing short of a media revolution.
rather than drawing us into the hypnotic spell of the traditional storyteller, the program invites us to make active and conscious comparisons of its own scenes with those of other, less transparent, media forms.
in this self-reflexive circus, it is only bart who refuses to be fooled by anything.
"it was an amusing episode," replies bart, half  looking at the camera, before he quickly adds ". . .
he decides he better get it out of the well before the radio, and his own identity, is discovered.
which they did often.
once a media figure has entered his animated  world, bart can interact with it, satirize it, or even become it.
it is not an involuntary surrender.
parodying itself,"  jean told me.
like bart, they speak the language better, and see through those clumsy attempts to program them into submission.
when i met with them on the  fox lot, they told me how they delighted in animation's ability to serve as a  platform for sophisticated social and media satire.
the show shares many of the viral features of other nineties programs.
where everyone used to know the catechism, now they all know episodes of 'the twilight zone,' our common frame of reference."
it's the ethos and  behavior embodied by screenager role-model and anti-hero bart simpson.
the author creates a character we like, and gets us to  identify with the hero's plight.
the character bart gets revenge against his principal and enjoys a terrific prank.
then everyone lives happily ever after.
in timmy's voice he tells reporters the story of how he came to fall into the well: he is an orphan, new to the neighborhood, and was rejected for admission to the local school by the principal because his clothes were too shabby.
there's nothing to believe in anymore once you assume that organized structures and institutions are out to get you.
they acknowledged the  jagged edges and recombinant forms behind the glossy patina of american  television, and by doing so, initiated its deconstruction.
in fact the show's mischievous ten-year-old protagonist is really  just the screen presence of groening's true inner nature.
in this sense, the simpsons deconstructs and informs the media soup of which it is a part.
- home - about - articles - blog - books > - all books - coercion - cyberia - ecstasy club - exit strategy - get back in the box - the genx reader - life inc - media virus - nothing sacred - open source democracy - playing the future - program or be programmed - stoned free - comics > - a.d.d. - club zero-g - testament - documentaries - events - press - login - home - about - articles - blog - books > - all books - coercion - cyberia - ecstasy club - exit strategy - get back in the box - the genx reader - life inc - media virus - nothing sacred - open source democracy - playing the future - program or be programmed - stoned free - comics > - a.d.d. - club zero-g - testament - documentaries - events - press - login top search - home - about - articles - blog - books > - all books - coercion - cyberia - ecstasy club - exit strategy -
gospel truth piped  into the home from the top of some glass building.
he creates a little boy named timmy o'toole, who cries for help from the bottom of the well.
the tv became  america's unquestioned window to the world, as the simpson's opening sequence -  which shows each family member rushing home to gather at the tv set - plainly  acknowledges.
"the simpsons'" creator, comic-strip artist matt groening (rhymes with "raining"), has long understood the way to mask his countercultural agenda.
no, television programmers are not programming television sets or  evening schedules; they're programming the viewers.
but we're feeding them a lot of ideas and notions that they didn't sign on for.
today, kids have the  experience of manipulating the image on the screen.
murphy brown's office dartboard, for example, was used as a meme slot; in each episode it has a different satirical note pinned to it.
the next day, front-page stories calling for the principal's dismissal appear.
by deconstructing and reframing the images in our media, they allow us to see them more objectively, or at least with more ironic distance.
bart is a ten-year-old media strategist - or at least an unconscious  media manipulator - and his exploits reveal the complexity of the current pop  media from the inside out.
in the old  days of television, when character would get into danger, the viewer had little  choice but to submit.
homer plays with the radio instead, trying to get bart's interest, but the boy  knows the toy does not really send messages into the mediaspace; it only  broadcasts to one little radio.
figures from the  television world are represented as cartoon characters not just to accentuate  certain features, but to allow for total recontextualization of their  identities.
but, thanks to  interactive technologies like the remote control, and cynical attitudes like  bart simpson's, the story just doesn't hold together anymore.
whether they are convincing us to buy a product, vote for a candidate, adopt an ideology, or simply confirm a moral platitude, the underlying reason for making television is to hold onto our attention and then sell us a bill of goods.
reiss was being deceptively  casual.
the people i call "screenagers," those raised with interactive devices in their media arsenals, are natives in a mediaspace where even the best television producers are immigrants.
by pretending to be a kids' cartoon, the show gets away with murder -  that is, the virtual murder of our most coercive media iconography and  techniques.
these writers make their points both in the plots of the particular episodes and in the cut-and-paste style of the show.
we counted on the editors of the new  york times to deliver "all the news that's fit to print," and walter  cronkite to tell us "that's way it was."
the audience interested in the program's subversive doctrine may not be large enough to keep the show in prime time, but the millions of kids who tune in every week to watch bart's antics are.
douglas rushkoff | post a comment | share article in articles reader comments there are no comments for this journal entry.
but once there is  a real child in the well - and one who had attempted to play a prank on the  media - everyone loses interest in the tragedy.
when i met with them on the fox lot, they told me how they delighted in animation's ability to serve as a platform for sophisticated social and media satire.
a few rich guys in suits sat in offices at the tops of tall buildings and decided which stories would be in the headlines or on the evening news, and how they would be told.
bart knows he's on a tv show and knows the kinds of tricks his own  writers use to fill up airtime.
he does this both as a character in springfield, usa, and as a media icon in our datasphere, satirizing the real sting's charity recordings.