when you click on the "post comment" button above to submit your comments, you are indicating your acceptance of and are agreeing to theterms of service.
am i love how “yes, with an “if.”
franich tags: community, family guy, glee, simpsons did it!
5:42 pm i don’t think i saw family guy referenced in any post, but i guess  family guy is basically the simpsons.
for me,this clearly is a heads up on which methods to focus on to maximise my online success .
in partnership with cnn copyright © 2012 entertainment weekly inc.
long answer: no, with a “but.”” is a direct quote from the simpsons hehehe.
the  simpsons, community, glee, tv comments 42 add comment we live in an era of hyper-referential humor.
6:31 pm the simpsons have changed to appeal to the new audiences –  that’s why so many old fans including myself feel that the series has  lost something.
reply lvbagsoutlet  fri 11/25/11 2:43 am interesting post and view, hope to hear more what the future holds thanks  great post.
i’m not suggesting like pop up video during tv shows saying like “this joke was in refernce to so and so”,but for people to do it themselves it’s actually pretty coolreply “simpson, we don’t love you as we did in 1993, and as for you o.j. we don’t love you either”
probably saved thousands of hours between everybody here.
even moreso than seasons  8 and 9 of the x-files.
perhaps they should start thinking of the episode that will end the series, if  they haven’t done that already.
perhaps they should start thinking of the episode that will end the series, if they haven’t done that already.
trying' -- exclusive first look next post simon cowell talks 'idol' with  piers morgan: 'i personally think it is a better show than last year.'
the simpsons hasn’t been funny or relevant in over a decade and is a prime example of running a good thing into the gravel.
really  great advice.
reply luis pj  wed 03/09/11 7:09 pm
reply ani  sat 03/12/11
and i had never heard of ray jay johnson until he was referenced  on the simpsons.
you know what died since the early 90′s……to serve man “jokes”reply i love how “yes, with an “if.”
notify me of follow-up comments via email.
my brother, who is 7 yrs younger than me,  doesn’t get half of what comes out of stewie’s mouth and yet he  still watches it (i laughed my head off at a “center square” stewie  joke and my brother just sat there).
a lesson the show-runners of the office seem hell bent on resisting.
watching an ep of the simpsons is now what watching the 10th  season of after-mash would’ve been like.
how many people watching even remember yakov or where’s the beef?reply i don’t think i saw family guy referenced in any post, but i guess family guy is basically the simpsons.
o.j. we don’t love you either” lol reply kel varnsen  thu 03/10/11 8:25
and i had never heard of ray jay johnson until he was referenced on the simpsons.
if the writers start alluding to current pop culture they will lose their first superfans that should be at least 40 years old now….
ew.com home comments (42 total) add your comment
you know what died since the early 90′s……to serve man  “jokes” reply lisar  thu 03/10/11 12:52
reply tricia  thu 03/10/11 1:36
reply jane  wed 07/20/11 1:50 pm the simpsons, because of its endless referential humor, will likely be the  one tv series that outlives several generations of americans.
they made a where’s the beef? reference in 2006 and yakov smirnoff showed up in 2002.
in marge’s words, ‘ … it’s good for a show to go  off the air before it becomes stale and repetitive’.
the simpsons changed comedy, but  just like every pioneering comedy series before it, it will eventually go off  air.
reply now with google and cellphones i think that people are understanding references more, like if a joke is made and i don’t get the reference made i look it up and learn something, i actually do it quite frequently during psych.
20 most annoying tv characters coachella 2012:
'dark knight rises': 7 new pics tv land awards: sneak peek pics!
30 greatest music artists right now 12 'keep the twist secret!'
in marge’s words, ‘ … it’s good for a show to go off the air before it becomes stale and repetitive’.
how many people watching even remember yakov  or where’s the beef? reply tamuchi  thu 03/10/11
movies 'hunger games': 16 (im)posters the voiceby marc snetiker read our live blog comments + mad menby adam b. vary comments + the real housewives of atlantaby karen valby comments + the amazing raceby
a dead flower on withered roots.
ill start concentrating on your other articles instead.
they made a where’s the beef? reference in 2006 and  yakov smirnoff showed up in 2002.
joseph brannigan lynch read our live blog comments + the celebrity apprenticeby dalton ross comments + game of thronesby james hibberd read our live blog comments+ back to top ▲powered by wordpress.com vip
previous post daniel radcliffe in 'how to succeed in business without really trying' -- exclusive first look
i’m not suggesting  like pop up video during tv shows saying like “this joke was in refernce  to so and so”,but for people to do it themselves it’s actually  pretty cool reply erik  thu 03/10/11 4:29 am “simpson, we don’t love you as we did in 1993, and as for you
my brother, who is 7 yrs younger than me, doesn’t get half of what comes out of stewie’s mouth and yet he still watches it (i laughed my head off at a “center square” stewie joke and my brother just sat there).
if the writers start alluding to current pop culture they will  lose their first superfans that should be at least 40 years old now….
long answer: no, with a  “but.”” is a direct quote from the simpsons hehehe.
even moreso than seasons 8 and 9 of the x-files.
the simpsons, because of its endless referential humor, will likely be the one tv series that outlives several generations of americans.
the simpsons have changed to appeal to the new audiences – that’s why so many old fans including myself feel that the series has lost something.
for the record,  it would have been even funnier if, in one episode, edna krabappel would have  sung the lyrics to “just another day” by little-known indiana pop  singer henry lee summer instead of paul mccartney!
page: « previous 1 2 socialist infiltrator  wed 03/09/11 4:02 pm the simpsons hasn’t been funny or relevant in over a decade and is a  prime example of running a good thing into the gravel.
* your e-mail address *your comment * when you click on the "post comment" button above to submit your comments, you are indicating your acceptance of and are agreeing to theterms of service.
i guess that’s telling in and of  itself.
you can also read our privacy policy.
i  mean homer’s car still has an 8-track player, how many people even know  what that is.
previous post daniel radcliffe in 'how to succeed in business without really
i guess that’s telling in and of itself.
a lesson the show-runners of the office seem hell bent  on resisting.
the simpsons has always made out of date references, even from the start.
i mean homer’s car still has an 8-track player, how many people even know what that is.
watching an ep of the simpsons is now what watching the 10th season of after-mash would’ve been like.
mar 9 2011 02:07 pm et tweet will 'the simpsons' still be funny when no one gets the references?
but it’s a good way to introduce people to books,movies,people  they wouldn’t have been interested in before.
for the record, it would have been even funnier if, in one episode, edna krabappel would have sung the lyrics to “just another day” by little-known indiana pop singer henry lee summer instead of paul mccartney!reply interesting post and view, hope to hear more what the future holds thanks great post.
but it’s a good way to introduce people to books,movies,people they wouldn’t have been interested in before.
the simpsons changed comedy, but just like every pioneering comedy series before it, it will eventually go off air.
am now with google and cellphones i think that people are understanding  references more, like if a joke is made and i don’t get the reference  made i look it up and learn something, i actually do it quite frequently during  psych.
we live in an era of hyper-referential humor.
for  me,this clearly is a heads up on which methods to focus on to maximise my  online success .