king of the hill had 5.38 million viewers, while family guy had 7.21 million and american dad had 5.82 million.
oh well it’s signed for two more seasons at least, and as long as i watch it and enjoy it everyone else can miss out on the fun for all i cares of course you have to acknowledge that its gonna be very very hard to generate new enthusiam in the show considering the length of time it’s been around.
suprised it didnt get  better ratings.
last night’s episode ‘gone maggie gone’ received 5.97 million viewers — beating out last week’s
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
one thing that really needs  to be taken into consideration, not just with the simpsons, is that many people  may be using their pvrs to watch the shows later.
the ratings system does not care if you download or pvr or tape the  episodes because you’re skipping the ads and ratings are just a way to  measure whether a show is viable enough to generate revenue for the network and  its advertisers.
after all, nearly 6 millions viewers isn’t so bad, although it can be much, much better!reply
new episodes continue for at least the next two weeks, with in the name of  the grandfather airing this week in uk/ireland and next sunday on fox.
t thought it was great!
have you voted in our poll yet?
just my opinion though.
reply nick-tick-97 16 march 2009 at 4:44 pm # less and less ratings each week, shame it was such a good episode.
so i hope this one is also good.
can’t wait to see it hope its good!
i must say that none of the hd episodes have disappointed me yet!reply less and less ratings each week, shame it was such a good episode.
reply bobby 16 march 2009 at 7:28 pm # funny episode.
after all, nearly 6 millions viewers isn’t so bad, although it can be  much, much better!
‘no loan again, naturally’ as second least watched episode of all time.
well i just seen that ep thats coming this sun 2day, and it was a good  episode…
but yeah… the new episode is much like when marge visited a place on  her childhood, while seeing photos from patty and selma and it burnt down, and  the family decided to make it better, its like that… not spoiling it for  those who does not want it to reply brandon f 17 march 2009 at 7:18 pm #
hope to see more viewers next week.
reply click here to cancel reply.
total voters: 535 | polls archive loading ...
this website, it's owners, and any content on this site is not authorized by fox.
i liked it better than last weeks.
hope to  see more viewers next week.
and does recording the show count as a viewer anyways?reply funny episode.
reply nice episode… seriously family guy is now getting better than the simpsons!!!
for this episode, and “no loan again” were a little better than the previous 3 episodes!
reply mikki 16 march 2009 at 4:32 pm # oh that’s crap.
reply adam 16 march 2009 at 11:37 pm #
so i  hope this one is also good.
well i haven’t yet seen it but the last 2-3 episodes were good
copyright © 1997 - 2010 simpsons channel.
and does recording the show count as a viewer  anyways?
reply nicolas 16 march 2009 at 3:07 pm # surely, we can blame some others shows for taking viewers from the  simpsons, but i also read that this episode wasn’t very good… i haven’t seen it yet, but in a couple of days i’ll give my 2 cents!
reply vince 16 march 2009 at 3:29 pm # too bad you don’t have a rating: better!
in the last two years, i think people have turned much much more to internet tv.reply name (required) mail (will not be published) (required) website rate: at long last leave view results | polls archiveloading ...
for this episode, and  “no loan again” were a little better than the previous 3 episodes!
4/5 i must say that none of the hd episodes have disappointed me yet!
t thought  it was great!
well i just seen that ep thats coming this sun 2day, and it was a good episode…
reply i watched the episode last night (cause i recorded it vhs) and i liked it better then the last week episode, so far all of the new hd episodes have been really good
just my  opinion though.
if your show is after hole in the wall, then it is inevitably doomed.
this is the best episode we’ve seen in a while!reply too bad you don’t have a rating: better!
its a pity others might not see my way, but it is the funniest episode so far this season.
in the last two years, i think people have turned  much much more to internet tv.
well written, many good laughts, and i totally loved the ending!
so, i watched them all but am not counted among the viewership.
reply shayna 16 march 2009 at 6:47 pm # i watched it last night, and really enjoyed it.
one reason for the poor ratings was the shows lead-in, one hour of the mind-numbing hole in the wall, which had an average of 2.13 million viewers (well below cancellation territory).
reply charles-montgomery-burns 18 march 2009 at 3:21 pm # aww it’s a shame it got low ratings, especially considering family  guy getting good ratings with a pretty lousy episode when this was top notch.
fox was fourth overall for the night and third among adults 18 – 49.
the ratings system does not care if you download or pvr or tape the episodes because you’re skipping the ads and ratings are just a way to measure whether a show is viable enough to generate revenue for the network and its advertisers.
oh well i’m looking forward to next weeks episode and to in the name of the grandfather tooreply i liked this episode more than the previous episode.
reply rg 16 march 2009 at 2:18 pm #
but yeah… the new episode is much like when marge visited a place on her childhood, while seeing photos from patty and selma and it burnt down, and the family decided to make it better, its like that… not spoiling it for those who does not want it toreply
i wonder hhow much longer these types of ratings will go on.
posted by: adam 17 responses to “ratings: gone maggie gone” barry 16 march 2009 at 2:01 pm # i also blame the premiere of “kings”.
i really liked this episode, didn’t deserve those bad ratings,:( but the ratings doesn’t make the episode.
also, earlier in the season i downloaded the episodes.
i don’t know why people arn’t watching them.
so, i watched them all but am  not counted among the viewership.
reply keep in mind, people are watching it online, and these statistics don’t include that.
also,  earlier in the season i downloaded the episodes.
new episodes continue for at least the next two weeks, with in the name of the grandfather airing this week in uk/ireland and next sunday on fox.
reply igorponweed 16 march 2009 at 3:09 pm # this is the best episode we’ve seen in a while!
can’t wait to see it hope its good!reply i watched it last night, and really enjoyed it.
reply marbat 16 march 2009 at 6:14 pm #
oh well i’m looking forward to next weeks episode and to in  the name of the grandfather too reply bart-fan 20 march 2009 at 1:54 pm # i liked this episode more than the previous episode.
reply mr tim 17 march 2009 at 6:34 pm # nice episode… seriously family guy is now getting better than the  simpsons!!!
posted by: adam i also blame the premiere of “kings”.
gone maggie gone was.. total voters: 535 | polls archiveloading ...
reply tayloreh 20 june 2009 at 8:30 pm # keep in mind, people are watching it online, and these statistics  don’t include that.
reply aww it’s a shame it got low ratings, especially considering family guy getting good ratings with a pretty lousy episode when this was top notch.
oh well it’s signed for two more seasons at least, and as long as i watch  it and enjoy it everyone else can miss out on the fun for all i cares of course you have to acknowledge that its gonna be very very hard to  generate new enthusiam in the show considering the length of time it’s  been around.
reply surely, we can blame some others shows for taking viewers from the simpsons, but i also read that this episode wasn’t very good… i haven’t seen it yet, but in a couple of days i’ll give my 2 cents!
i really liked this episode, didn’t deserve  those bad ratings,:( but the ratings doesn’t make the episode.
suprised it didnt get better ratings.
this comes as fox have consistently programmed new episodes for three weeks in a row, and even got around to advertising this week’s episode during its commercial breaks throughout the week.
reply marbat 17 march 2009 at 11:54 am # i watched the episode last night (cause i recorded it vhs) and i liked it  better then the last week episode, so far all of the new hd episodes have been  really good
if not, you may do so below.
one thing that really needs to be taken into consideration, not just with the simpsons, is that many people may be using their pvrs to watch the shows later.
its a pity others might  not see my way, but it is the funniest episode so far this season.