last year matt selman won the writers guild of america  award for the 14th season episode "the dad who knew too little ."
and, as freelancers, they would lose a big portion of their  work.
digs at many of britain's celebs and politics are present and correct: marge digs at david beckham's much-publiscised alleged affair with rebecca loos, whilst jibes at everything from the current bush-blair relationship ("you're like mini me to our dr evil - helping out in all our zany schemes to take over the world") to the nation's description of santa claus as "father christmas" are satirized.
a few cast members also pop in – dan  castellaneta, yeardley smith, hank azaria – and previous commentary  heavyweight al jean gets away with just two this time around, as he was not a  major staff member in season 5, and thus only appears on the season 4 holdover  tracks.
the core of the  conflict seems to be that the anda wants the company to commit to hiring only  anda members, and the company refuses to agree.
now he's saying what the demands are and is believed to be taking part in the union negotiations.
for the first time  ever, channel 4 are to a air a simpsons short specially made for the channel,  to celebrate the network's recent acquisition of the show in the uk.
digs at many of britain's celebs and politics are present and correct:  marge digs at david beckham's much-publiscised alleged affair with rebecca  loos, whilst jibes at everything from the current bush-blair relationship  ("you're like mini me to our dr evil - helping out in all our zany schemes  to take over the world") to the nation's description of santa claus as  "father christmas" are satirized.
"fraudcast news", however, received the  guild's paul selvin award honoring works that focus on first amendment issues.
video quality is also improving.
there is a chapter stop after the opening of the show  for quick skipping.
by wesley mead (wesley@snpp.com) -december 22, 2004 lucky viewers in britain get a rare treat this christmas day.
the bottom half of the screen  lists the episodes along with the lovely play all option, and an  "extras" button.
update (april 3, 2005) - it has been confirmed that the main voices of the show  in latin america will be replaced.
if you can " by ian maxtone-graham.
if no settlement is reached, one of  the following will happen: the simpsons (and some other shows) will have  new voices.
by jouni paakkinen  (jouni@snpp.com) -december 16, 2004
the core of the conflict seems to be that the anda wants the company to commit to hiring only anda members, and the company refuses to agree.
there are 40 of them, from 14 different episodes,  totally a whopping 22 minutes.
the company, called  grabaciones y doblajes internacionales, is negotiating a new contract with the  union, called asociación nacional de actores, or anda.
for more detailed and continually updated coverage of the  situation, visitsimpsons en argentina  , the casfo forum (both in spanish) or  theno homers club (in english).
the  simpsons received four out of five nominations in the animation category when  the writers guild of america announced nominees for its 2004 tv awards  yesterday.
winners were announced in the 57th annual wga ceremonies held in beverly hills and new york.
last year matt selman won the  writers guild of america award for the 14th season episode "the dad who  knew too little."
it shows a display of the simpson family seemingly taking part in a circus, a la the well-known extra-long couch gag, complete with trumpeting elephants, a magician, and scanticy-clad dancers.
the simpsons bags four wga nods
this time  round, the dd5.1 remaster is even better than last time, and whilst largely  front-focused, directional effects sometimes do make their way to the back, and  the overall clarity makes for an improved listening experience.
january 14, 2005 complete  fifth season reviewed in-depth look at the latest simpsons dvd boxed  set.
by wesley mead  (wesley@snpp.com) -december 22, 2004 lucky  viewers in britain get a rare treat this christmas day.
this set brings a few weaker episodes with it - some purists cite "bart gets an elephant" and "lady bouvier's lover" as cases of the wacky outweighing the clever, so to speak, but to all intents and purposes, every episode here is simply great.
union conflict may result in  replacing simpsons actors.
on january 8th news media all over the region began to  report that the voices of homer (done by humberto velez, see photo), marge  (nancy mckenzy), bart (claudia mota), lisa (patricia acevedo) and mr. burns  (gabriel chávez) would change beginning with next season.
this time, the boat has really been pished out when it comes to deleted scenes.
compared to that, the salaries of the original voices, $250,000 an episode,  seem astronomical.
"this is an incredible milestone reaching five million copies," says susan weinberg, senior vp of harpercollins.
there is minimal grain  and shimmering, colours are vivid and there's no edge-enhancement to speak of.
canal fox will air the 16th season, probably  starting in june, with the new voices.
but  these 22 commentaries, totalling over 8 hours, are surely even better.
it's strictly an  union conflict.
kicking off the additional bonus features is the "word from matt  groening" on disc 1, a short two-minute reel of quick season five clips  over which matt discusses the dvd.
think of them as 23 minutes full of anecdotes, jokes and inside stories from the production of the episode they're really the most comprehensive collections of background information on the shows you could ever hope to have.
or the actors will have to leave the union to keep that gig.
extras: a+ - extensive and entertaining once again.
actor  humberto velez, who directs the dubbing on the simpsons and plays homer (called  homero), first talked about this as a done deal, and was limited to say how  sorry he was that it happened.
the wga award winners of 2004 will be announced  february 19, 2005 in ceremonies held in los angeles and new york.
everything that could have been improved with this package has been, and  with such a brilliant collection of episodes and expansive extras, only a fool  would pass up on the oppurtunity to pick up this fantastic set.
the top half contains a moving image featuring a simpson family member; which after you have waited for a while will animate in one of several different ways - for example, on disc 1, we see homer sleeping at the power plant; one of the animations sees him falling off of his chair.
marge simpson and co will be going head to head with the  queen herself in the 3 pm slot on the 25th, as the family are taking part in a  special 5-minute short for channel 4's acclaimed "alternative christmas  message" slot, which in previous years has involved sharon osbourne and  ali g.
" the books in this new series will  explore the human condition and the meaning of life through the eyes of the  show's characters.
this was the policy before,  when the show was dubbed by two different production houses that are no longer  in business.
"this is an  incredible milestone – reaching five million copies," says susan  weinberg, senior vp of harpercollins.
the show is dubbed in mexico city.
this set brings a few weaker  episodes with it - some purists cite "bart gets an elephant"  and "lady bouvier's lover" as cases of the wacky outweighing  the clever, so to speak, but to all intents and purposes, every episode here is  simply great.
you view them inserted into their respective episodes, or as a  reel with optional commentary by david mirkin on the final disc.
there is minimal grain and shimmering, colours are vivid and there's no edge-enhancement to speak of.
the simpsons library of wisdom, which will be introduced in november 2004 with two inaugural volumes, "the bart book" and "the homer book".
if you can" yesterday.
a set of preview clips is available on thechannel 4 web site.
future news concerning the dvds, including the  forthcoming season 6 release, and various other compilation discs, will be  added to ourdvd news page.
this time around, there are no digital defects to speak of at all.
however, the reality seems a bit less drastic.
marge goes head to head with queen
the possibility for future books in the series is endless; it will continue to draw from the bountiful cast of simpsons characters.
in the homer book, readers find out what's on homer's mind, discover the mysteries of homer's fridge, hang out in homer's haunts, meet his friends and enemies; and spend a typical day with the lovable lout who will lift you out of your d'oh-ldrums.
the position of 20th century fox in this  conflict is unclear.
future news concerning the dvds, including the forthcoming season 6 release, and various other compilation discs, will be added to ourdvd news page.
the simpsons - the complete fifth season episodes:  a+ - classic collection - one of the best.
the  commentaries also prove just how funny the guys really are, even when not  writing for the show: occasionally a commentary will go a little off-topic and  we'll be treated to hilarious banter from the participants.
if no settlement is reached, one of the following will happen: complete fifth season reviewed
the full-frame presentation is bright and fully detailed; it's  only marred by the limitation of the source material.
it needs to be made clear that this is not a salary conflict, and it's not a conflict involving the simpsons actors directly.
the simpsons library of wisdom, which will be introduced in november 2004  with two inaugural volumes, "the bart book" and "the  homer book".
other nominees in the animation category  featured three simpsons episodes ("today, i am a clown" by  joel h. cohen, "fraudcast news" by don payne, " milhouse doesn't live here anymore" by julie and david chambers) and  episode "starcrossed of cartoon network's justice league.
it's no  surprise to learn that fox have yet more up their sleeves for this package,  though.
the commentaries also prove just how funny the guys really are, even when not writing for the show: occasionally a commentary will go a little off-topic
this quick release was a pleasant surprise for fans who were expecting to have to wait a year but got away this time around with a mere six months.
the audio-video quality on this set is excellent it's improving with each successive season, and whilst we're not quite up to the impressive digital quality we'll be expecting with the later seasons, we're getting a lot closer.
one complaint many simpsons fans have had with  the sets has been the lack of a really complete, comprehensive documentary.
to say season 5 was an eventful year  for the show would be a gross understatement.
all-time greats "homer's barbershop quartet", "cape feare" and "deep space homer", are present and correct, alongside other favourites like "treehouse of horror iv ", "bart gets famous" and the 100th episode " sweet seymour skinner's baadasssss song".
the menus in the simpsons' series are seemingly  improving with each season set: these discs have the best navigation yet!
february 20, 2005 new voices in latin america?
by nicolás di candia  (nicolas@snpp.com) -january 14, 2005 simpsons viewers in latin america may get a very different show when  season 16 premieres.
there is a chapter stop after the opening of the show for quick skipping.
in the bart book , bart will share his school survival guide, secret codes, pullable pranks, dream tattoos, favorite el barto "tags," and the xmas list to end all lists (and future visits from santa.)
there's also a short three-minute featurette from james l. brooks on the last disc, looking back at the creation of the show and the first 100 episodes.
october 27, 2004 [  > ] wga awards for the simpsons by jouni paakkinen  (jouni@snpp.com) -february 20, 2005 ian  maxtone-graham received a writers guild of america award for the 15th season  simpsons episode "catch '
it will be released in other countries around the globe throughout the first half of 2005.
we also see bart become burns' heir, lisa take on big  business with her feminist lisa lionheart doll, and apu coming to live with the  simpsons; not forgetting homer's unforgettable antics teaching an adult  education class on how to build a successful marriage and the entire town  getting in touch with their inner child.
for the first time ever, channel 4 are to a air a simpsons short specially made for the channel, to celebrate the network's recent acquisition of the show in the uk.
kicking off the additional bonus features is the "word from matt groening" on disc 1, a short two-minute reel of quick season five clips over which matt discusses the dvd.
update (december 25, 2004) - those of you not in the uk can download a 10 mb windows media video clip fromhemustvthemes.
this season also featured its fair share of guest stars, with big names such as conan o'brien, george harrison, the ramones, robert goulet, sam neill, michelle pfeiffer, ernest borgnine, james brown, buzz aldrin, kathleen turner and more all popping up in springfield, as well as regular special guests kelsey grammer and phil hartman also stopping by.
the packaging art this season is even more goregously detailed than the previous four seasons'.
it's becoming quite  evident that the press statements are part of both parties' negotiation  strategies.
the possibility for future books in the series is endless; it will continue to  draw from the bountiful cast of simpsons characters.
as such, it's hard to discern truth from fiction when reading press statements made by the parties involved.
it's strictly an union conflict.
we also see bart become burns' heir, lisa take on big business with her feminist lisa lionheart doll, and apu coming to live with the simpsons; not forgetting homer's unforgettable antics teaching an adult education class on how to build a successful marriage and the entire town getting in touch with their inner child.
the simpsons - the complete fifth season episodes: a+ - classic collection - one of the best.
by wesley mead  (wesley@snpp.com) -january 1, 2005 " the complete fifth season" dvd set, featuring all 22 episodes from the  series'fifth season (1993-1994), was released in the usa and canada on december  21st, 2004.
this incident  applies to the spanish version of the simpsons seen in all latin america.
by wesley mead (wesley@snpp.com) -january 1, 2005 " the complete fifth season" dvd set, featuring all 22 episodes from the series'fifth season (1993-1994), was released in the usa and canada on december 21st, 2004.
our favorite family was nominated for 15th season episodes "today, i am a clown" by joel h. cohen, " fraudcast news" by don payne, "milhouse doesn't live here anymore" by julie and david chambers and
the actors have said the corporation is on their side, but  their public statements come of noncommital: "we hope a settlement can be  reached".
all are entertaining, and are in the later stages of production - the only thing really missing is some voice cleanup and sound effects.
the audio-video  quality on this set is excellent – it's improving with each successive  season, and whilst we're not quite up to the impressive digital quality we'll  be expecting with the later seasons, we're getting a lot closer.
there are several "illustrated  commentaries", each of which last an act of the original animatic, which  feature several participants with the ability to "draw" on the  screen; and finally, there is a james taylor audio outtake from "deep  space homer", and an option of watching all of "sweet seymour  skinner's baadasssss song" in four different languages, including  italian and czechoslovakian.
winners  were announced in the 57th annual wga ceremonies held in beverly hills and new  york.
library of wisdom courtesy of harpercollins publishers - october 27, 2004 perennial, an imprint of harpercollins publishers, today announced the launch of a new simpons series.
there's also a short three-minute featurette from james l. brooks on the last  disc, looking back at the creation of the show and the first 100 episodes.
once again, fox and the team have done themselves proud.
when  you insert a disc, after copyrigth warnings, the screen is divided into two.
it shows a display of the  simpson family seemingly taking part in a circus, a la the well-known  extra-long couch gag, complete with trumpeting elephants, a magician, and  scanticy-clad dancers.
all-time greats "homer's barbershop quartet", "cape  feare" and "deep space homer", are present and  correct, alongside other favourites like "treehouse of horror iv ", "bart gets famous" and the 100th episode " sweet seymour skinner's baadasssss song".
it's no surprise to learn that fox have yet more up their sleeves for this package, though.
also among this season's events were marge's infamous addiction to gambling in "$pringfield"; bart managing to con a radio station out of an african elephant in the cleverly-titled "bart gets an elephant"; and homer's befriending of ned flanders - much to the latter's dismay - in "homer loves flanders".
the simpsons give christmas speech on british television.
the four discs are held in a five-panel fold-out digipak enclosed in a cardboard slipcase - this time a lovely metallic deep red - with one panel holding the detailed episode booklet, featuring titles, synopses, original airdates, guest stars and details on episode-specific extras (including commentary participants).
the speech promises to deliver quickfire  sarcasm and satire in the way in which only the simpsons can: those behind the  penning of the short are all acclaimed simpsons writers, and various previews  of the speech obtained by the press have apparently delivered laughs thick and  fast.
as well as all of this, there are great "animation showcases" for four episodes "treehouse of horror iv ", "$pringfield", "bart gets an elephant ", "sweet seymour skinner's baadasssss song" - which feature multi-angle animation comparisons from different stages of the animation and original sketches - and some great commercials featuring the simpsons from 1993 and 1994.
our favorite family was nominated for 15th  season episodes "today, i am a clown" by joel h. cohen, " fraudcast news" by don payne, "milhouse doesn't live here  anymore" by julie and david chambers and
once again, the principal extra is  the commentary on every one of the 22 episodes in the set, featuring a vast  array of contributors.
library of wisdom courtesy of harpercollins publishers - october 27, 2004 perennial, an imprint of  harpercollins publishers, today announced the launch of a new simpons series.
this was due to a conflict between the company that dubs the show into spanish and the mexican actors' union.
the actors have said that each episode cost 1,000 us dollars to be dubbed, and  each actor gets $60 an episode (the actors say they are not asking for raises).
the actors picketed  the offices of the company, grabaciones y doblajes internationales, blocking  entry to the non-union actors, bbcreports.
20th century fox pays for the dubbing.
all are entertaining, and are in the later  stages of production - the only thing really missing is some voice cleanup and  sound effects.
if the situation stays like today, chances are this will happen.
the all-important interesting tidbits are also present: how else would we find out about conan's antics backstage, or the cast's ad-libs?
the switch was the result of a salary  dispute with actress marina huerta.
december 16, 2004 library of wisdom new series of official  simpsons books from harpercollins.
but these 22 commentaries, totalling over 8 hours, are surely even better.
the other nominee in the category is cartoon network'sjustice league with episode " starcrossed."
unfortunately, there are currently no plans to air this short outside of  the uk, but for those of you who do live in the country, you can catch the clip  at 3pm, 4:05pm, 6:10pm, 8:25pm and 10:35pm on christmas day on channel 4.
french and  spanish dd2.0 soundtracks are also included, as are french, spanish and english  dhi subtitles.
this was the policy before, when the show was dubbed by two different production houses that are no longer in business.
other nominees in the animation category featured three simpsons episodes ("today, i am a clown" by joel h. cohen, "fraudcast news" by don payne, " milhouse doesn't live here anymore" by julie and david chambers) and episode "starcrossed of cartoon network's justice league.
to which the union responds that there are common shareholders between gdi and one of the previous companies, so it's not a completely new company.
though we don't know if there's a  connection, it's worth to point out that months after the first conflict with  the original actors of the simpsons, the latin american voice of bart was  changed and has not been changed back.
everything that could have been improved with this package has been, and with such a brilliant collection of episodes and expansive extras, only a fool would pass up on the oppurtunity to pick up this fantastic set.
the company, called grabaciones y doblajes internacionales, is negotiating a new contract with the union, called asociación nacional de actores, or anda.
the all-important  interesting tidbits are also present: how else would we find out about conan's  antics backstage, or the cast's ad-libs?
this time around, there are no digital defects to  speak of at all.
the four discs are held in  a five-panel fold-out digipak enclosed in a cardboard slipcase - this time a  lovely metallic deep red - with one panel holding the detailed episode booklet,  featuring titles, synopses, original airdates, guest stars and details on  episode-specific extras (including commentary participants).
the other nominee in  the category is cartoon network'sjustice league with episode " starcrossed."
update (february 25, 2005) -
to which  the union responds that there are common shareholders between gdi and one of  the previous companies, so it's not a completely new company.
december  22, 2004 the simpsons bags four wga nods writers  guild of america announced nominees for this year's awards.
" the books in this new series will explore the human condition and the meaning of life through the eyes of the show's characters.
the booklet is 10 pages long.
of course, not having to hire union actors means lower costs for  the company.
the negotiation is ongoing and arguments keep going back and forth..
with the publication of these books perennial will have  more than 30 simpsonsbooks in print.
or 20th century fox will have to change the company where the dubbing is  made.
actor humberto velez, who directs the dubbing on the simpsons and plays homer (called homero), first talked about this as a done deal, and was limited to say how sorry he was that it happened.
and while there is a huge difference, it should be noted  that they do very different jobs, in very different conditions and in very  different markets.
the discs as usual tie in with the artwork behind them.
wga awards for the simpsons episode by ian  maxtone-graham wins the animation category.
the voices went on strike yesterday.
"the books embody all the wonderful  qualities you've come to expect from the award-winning television show.
by nicolás di candia (nicolas@snpp.com) -january 14, 2005 simpsons viewers in latin america may get a very different show when season 16 premieres.
search the simpsons archive: search helpsearch the simpsons archive: search help [ faqs, guides & lists | upcoming episodes | episode guide | capsules |miscellaneous | web links | about | home ] last updated on august 30, 2005 by jouni paakkinen (webmaster@snpp.com)
a few cast members also pop in dan castellaneta, yeardley smith, hank azaria and previous commentary heavyweight al jean gets away with just two this time around, as he was not a major staff member in season 5, and thus only appears on the season 4 holdover tracks.
this  means that they would not be able to work for any company which has a contract  with the union.
many would argue season five of  the show is a slightly weaker season than season 4, just prior to it, and  whilst that may be true - certain episodes seemed to rely more upon wacky  outrageous gags than strong satire and well-written wit - there's no denying  this season contained several of the greatest episodes ever, and every  23-minute animated masterpiece here will satisfy a fan's appetite for the show.
"fraudcast news", however, received the guild's paul selvin award honoring works that focus on first amendment issues.
the company says that, as it is new, it doesn't have to renew a contract it didn't sign in the first place.
complete fifth season reviewed
i extensively tested the english subtitles; they were very  accurate and mostly in sync, but for some reason "dropped out"
one complaint many simpsons fans have had with the sets has been the lack of a really complete, comprehensive documentary.
now he's saying what the demands are and is  believed to be taking part in the union negotiations.
on january 8th news media all over the region began to report that the voices of homer (done by humberto velez, see photo), marge (nancy mckenzy), bart (claudia mota), lisa (patricia acevedo) and mr. burns (gabriel chávez) would change beginning with next season.
as well as all of this, there are great "animation  showcases" for four episodes – "treehouse of horror iv ", "$pringfield", "bart gets an elephant ", "sweet seymour skinner's baadasssss song" - which  feature multi-angle animation comparisons from different stages of the  animation and original sketches - and some great commercials featuring the  simpsons from 1993 and 1994.
and we'll be treated to hilarious banter from the participants.
it  does not apply to spain, where a different spanish version is made.
this time round, the dd5.1 remaster is even better than last time, and whilst largely front-focused, directional effects sometimes do make their way to the back, and the overall clarity makes for an improved listening experience.
marge simpson and co will be going head to head with the queen herself in the 3 pm slot on the 25th, as the family are taking part in a special 5-minute short for channel 4's acclaimed "alternative christmas message" slot, which in previous years has involved sharon osbourne and ali g.
there are 40 of them, from 14 different episodes, totally a whopping 22 minutes.
it needs to be made clear that this is not a salary conflict, and  it's not a conflict involving the simpsons actors directly.
with up to 7 or 8 contributors a time, there's rarely a quiet moment, and whilst the occasional sections of indecipheral information are present when more than one person is talking at a time, for the most part we get to hear some really interesting people discuss a really interesting show.
it will be released in other countries around the globe throughout  the first half of 2005.
the  simpsons library of wisdom is another gem in this treasured publishing  program.
a - perfect packaging and menus; the best av quality yet.
with up to 7 or 8 contributors a time, there's rarely a quiet moment, and  whilst the occasional sections of indecipheral information are present when  more than one person is talking at a time, for the most part we get to hear  some really interesting people discuss a really interesting show.
many would argue season five of the show is a slightly weaker season than season 4, just prior to it, and whilst that may be true - certain episodes seemed to rely more upon wacky outrageous gags than strong satire and well-written wit - there's no denying this season contained several of the greatest episodes ever, and every 23-minute animated masterpiece here will satisfy a fan's appetite for the show.
of course, not having to hire union actors means lower costs for the company.
with the publication of these books perennial will have more than 30 simpsonsbooks in print.
the wga award winners of 2004 will be announced february 19, 2005 in ceremonies held in los angeles and new york.
you view them inserted into their respective episodes, or as a reel with optional commentary by david mirkin on the final disc.
the negotiation is ongoing and arguments keep going back and  forth..
the menus in the simpsons' series are seemingly improving with each season set: these discs have the best navigation yet!
(disappeared) occasionally for a few seconds.
it's very similar to the printed letter on the package itself, and is in the same vein as his season 4 "word".
the company says that, as it is new, it  doesn't have to renew a contract it didn't sign in the first place.
a set  of preview clips is available on thechannel 4 web site.
this quick release was a  pleasant surprise for fans who were expecting to have to wait a year but got  away this time around with a mere six months.
in the bart book , bart will  share his school survival guide, secret codes, pullable pranks, dream tattoos,  favorite el barto "tags," and the xmas list to end all lists (and  future visits from santa.)
wga awards for the simpsons by jouni paakkinen (jouni@snpp.com) -february 20, 2005 ian maxtone-graham received a writers guild of america award for the 15th season simpsons episode "catch 'em
em if you can" yesterday.
in the homer book,  readers find out what's on homer's mind, discover the mysteries of homer's  fridge, hang out in homer's haunts, meet his friends and enemies; and spend a  typical day with the lovable lout who will lift you out of your d'oh-ldrums.
last year matt selman won the writers guild of america award for the 14th season episode "the dad who knew too little ."
the speech promises to deliver quickfire sarcasm and satire in the way in which only the simpsons can: those behind the penning of the short are all acclaimed simpsons writers, and various previews of the speech obtained by the press have apparently delivered laughs thick and fast.
also among this season's events were  marge's infamous addiction to gambling in "$pringfield"; bart  managing to con a radio station out of an african elephant in the  cleverly-titled "bart gets an elephant"; and homer's  befriending of ned flanders - much to the latter's dismay - in "homer  loves flanders".
a - perfect  packaging and menus; the best av quality yet.
once again, the principal extra is the commentary on every one of the 22 episodes in the set, featuring a vast array of contributors.
"the books embody all the wonderful qualities you've come to expect from the award-winning television show.
this season's packaging follows the  trend of the past four seasons, as you might expect.
french and spanish dd2.0 soundtracks are also included, as are french, spanish and english dhi subtitles.
extras: a+ - extensive  and entertaining once again.
this season's packaging follows the trend of the past four seasons, as you might expect.
it's very similar to the printed letter on  the package itself, and is in the same vein as his season 4 "word".
as such, it's hard to discern truth from fiction when reading press  statements made by the parties involved.
on the back of one of the panels is the letter from matt groening we've become  accustomed to, in which he addresses this dvd set and the episodes it contains.
think of  them as 23 minutes full of anecdotes, jokes and inside stories from the  production of the episode – they're really the most comprehensive  collections of background information on the shows you could ever hope to have.
this time, the boat has really been pished out when it  comes to deleted scenes.
matt groening, creator of the show himself, is present on a whopping 20 of these; other regulars throughout the set david mirkin, mark kirkland, david silverman, james l. brooks, conan o'brien, jon lovitz, wes archer, jon vitti and josh weinstein.
i extensively tested the english subtitles; they were very accurate and mostly in sync, but for some reason "dropped out" (disappeared) occasionally for a few seconds.
this was due  to a conflict between the company that dubs the show into spanish and the  mexican actors' union.
the bottom half of the screen lists the episodes along with the lovely play all option, and an "extras" button.
when you insert a disc, after copyrigth warnings, the screen is divided into two.
once again, fox and the team have done themselves  proud.
the booklet is 10  pages long.
last year matt selman won the writers guild of america award for the 14th season episode "the dad who knew too little."
by jouni paakkinen (jouni@snpp.com) -december 16, 2004 the simpsons received four out of five nominations in the animation category when the writers guild of america announced nominees for its 2004 tv awards yesterday.
each episode has two small buttons next to it: choosing the first, featuring a triangle similar to a play button, will play the episode; the other, with a "+" mark, will open a sub-menu (of which there can be several in a row) featuring scene, language, commentary and deleted scenes options.
it's becoming quite evident that the press statements are part of both parties' negotiation strategies.
the top half contains a moving image featuring a simpson family member; which  after you have waited for a while will animate in one of several different ways  - for example, on disc 1, we see homer sleeping at the power plant; one of the  animations sees him falling off of his chair.
there are several "illustrated commentaries", each of which last an act of the original animatic, which feature several participants with the ability to "draw" on the screen; and finally, there is a james taylor audio outtake from "deep space homer", and an option of watching all of "sweet seymour skinner's baadasssss song" in four different languages, including italian and czechoslovakian.
to say season 5 was an eventful year for the show would be a gross understatement.
this season also featured its  fair share of guest stars, with big names such as conan o'brien, george  harrison, the ramones, robert goulet, sam neill, michelle pfeiffer, ernest  borgnine, james brown, buzz aldrin, kathleen turner and more all popping up in  springfield, as well as regular special guests kelsey grammer and phil hartman  also stopping by.
each episode has two small buttons next to it:  choosing the first, featuring a triangle similar to a play button, will play  the episode; the other, with a "+" mark, will open a sub-menu (of  which there can be several in a row) featuring scene, language, commentary and  deleted scenes options.
matt groening, creator of the show himself, is present  on a whopping 20 of these; other regulars throughout the set david mirkin, mark  kirkland, david silverman, james l. brooks, conan o'brien, jon lovitz, wes  archer, jon vitti and josh weinstein.
the packaging art this season is even more  goregously detailed than the previous four seasons'.
on the back of one of the panels is the letter from matt groening we've become accustomed to, in which he addresses this dvd set and the episodes it contains.
the simpsons library of wisdom is another gem in this treasured publishing program.
update (december 25, 2004) - those of you not in the uk can  download a 10 mb windows media video clip fromhemustvthemes.
new voices in latin america?
unfortunately, there are currently no plans to air this short outside of the uk, but for those of you who do live in the country, you can catch the clip at 3pm, 4:05pm, 6:10pm, 8:25pm and 10:35pm on christmas day on channel 4.
the full-frame presentation is bright and fully detailed; it's only marred by the limitation of the source material.
video  quality is also improving.