season 21 is going to be great!reply im a huge simpsons fan
reply nicolas 30 september 2009 at 3:09 pm # could someone tell us which rates are relevant?
there are no more heavy shadows like in the simpsons movie, more segments of the show are hand drawn instead computer animated, and all in all everything looks more natural.
haven’t even seen the episode  yet.
reply brian 5 october 2009 at 1:23 pm # this week oct 4 1.
comments ratings: homer
get well adam, don’t worry about us, we’ll wait for the new information, and i am really impressed with your enthusiasm about simpsons channel!
i thought that rates will be around 10 million, but this is still not bad for a first episode of new season.
fourth was american dad with 7.12.
hopefully the rest of the season will be great too!reply this week oct 4 1.
reply nicolas 5 october 2009 at 3:52 pm # get well adam, don’t worry about us, we’ll wait for the new  information, and i am really impressed with your enthusiasm about simpsons  channel!
bart gets a z  9.31 (the simpsons) 3.
this website, it's owners, and any content on this site is not authorized by fox.
i think  these ratings will be a sign to come that the simpsons dominance on sundays is  over.
though around the world, i do believe it will always remain the best.
not 8.42 million viewers reply gusbanks 29 september 2009 at 10:47 am #
it was a good episode i rated a b and good ratings on homer the whooper, though it was the first of the season so was expected to have good ratings.
but i was disappointed with this episode it only revolved around homer and comic book guy it should have been involved with other simpsons characters not comic book guy he’s one of my least favorite characters.
not how many people watched it
as big of a simpsons fan i  am, fg was funnier last sunday.
i guess because the cleveland show was the series premiere, its beating the simpsons is understandable… since it was good, not great, hopefully it’ll settle down nicely with american dad in the future.
posted by: brian 21 responses to “ratings: homer the whopper” matt 28 september 2009 at 4:29 pm #
i think these ratings will be a sign to come that the simpsons dominance on sundays is over.
bart gets a z 9.31 (the simpsons) 3.
the numbers were good, but they could be higher.
if other episodes in this season are as good as this one, there in absolutely no reason for worrying about the future of the show!reply name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
reply gaulty 29 september 2009 at 2:39 pm # the cynical part of me expected it to be 4 million, so i suppose its an  alright figure.
last night’s season premiere of the simpsons was seen 8.21 million.
and to those say they’ll stop watching/lose intrest, you won’t reply marbat 29 september 2009 at 6:50 pm # family guy was a 8.7 simpsons was a 7.6 the cleveland show was a  7.2 and american dad was a 6.9 reply brian 30 september 2009 at 8:13 am # dont know where you’re getting those figures from marbat, but  they’re incorrect.
people see the first episode  and as some will stay, people expect to see a good start and won’t get  it.
i don’t really  understand the way they can estimate how much people have seen some show… reply marbat 30 september 2009 at 6:54 pm # i was rating the shows on my point of view.
i am also very happy with the art-
although episode had really simple plot, it had tons  of great humor.
fourth was  american dad with 7.12.
i don’t really understand the way they can estimate how much people have seen some show…reply i was rating the shows on my point of view.
although episode had really simple plot, it had tons of great humor.
family goy 9.67 (family guy) 2.
copyright © 1997 - 2010 simpsons channel.
the cleveland show had 9.42 million viewers not 8.42 million viewersreply
season 21 is going to  be great!
time for simpsons writers to man up and produce some quality episodes before we  loose complete interest.
i expect to see it in the low 7′s, high 8′s for the next few weeks till thoh.
if i’m honest, family guy is starting to become more and more popular around the world and we’ve gotta accept that.
posted by: brian the ratings are respectable but everything did better that night
reply brian 28 september 2009 at 7:16 pm # im a huge simpsons fan
i guess because the cleveland show was the series premiere, its beating the  simpsons is understandable… since it was good, not great, hopefully  it’ll settle down nicely with american dad in the future.
da doggone daddy-daughter dinner dance 8.7 (the cleveland show) 4.
and to those say they’ll stop watching/lose intrest, you won’treply family guy was a 8.7 simpsons was a 7.6 the cleveland show was a 7.2 and american dad was a 6.9 dont know where you’re getting those figures from marbat, but they’re incorrect.
reply hey smiles i don’t know what planet you been livin on but there is no way anyone could say that piece of crap season premiere could be ranked in ranked in anything, unless it’s suckiest episodes of all time.
this ranked it 3rd on the night behind family guy, which was seen by 10.17 million, and the series premiere of the cleveland show with 9.42.
this ranked it 3rd on the night behind family guy, which was seen by 10.17  million, and the series premiere of the cleveland show with 9.42.
i couldn’t care less how many people watched it.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
i won’t lie, figures are gonna go down.
anyway, i saw this episode, and i think that this is one of the best season  opening episode in years!
viewer ratings for last night’s animation domination have been released.
i’m feeling unwell and am updating this from my bed.
reply click here to cancel reply.
as big of a simpsons fan i am, fg was funnier last sunday.
you can however rate it on our poll to the right.
anyway, i saw this episode, and i think that this is one of the best season opening episode in years!
reply nicolas 29 september 2009 at 12:42 pm # honestly, i expected more.
hopefully the rest of the season  will be great too!
this episode was a very good one.
reply could someone tell us which rates are relevant?
thoh xx needs to pull in over 10 million  viewers.
i expect to see it in the low 7′s, high 8′s for the next few  weeks till thoh.
moon over isla island 7.06 (american dad!)
i’m tempted to say that this ranks as one of my favorites of all time.
i think he’s rating the quality of the episodes, not the # of viewers.
hey, brian – i agree.
reply no problems adam!
reply nick-tick-97 5 october 2009 at 1:04 pm # no problems adam!
i’m tempted to  say that this ranks as one of my favorites of all time.
haven’t even seen the episode yet.
but i was disappointed with this episode it only  revolved around homer and comic book guy it should have been involved with  other simpsons characters not comic book guy he’s one of my least  favorite characters.
reply fliz 30 september 2009 at 2:25 pm #
reply good ratings and a good episodereply guys i apologise for not updating about bart gets a z .
the simpsons could defeat family guy sometimes but this is nowhere near  cancellation numbers reply jason 28 september 2009 at 4:35 pm # solid ratings reply smiles 28 september 2009 at 5:06 pm # screw family guy.
reply revlovejoy 1 october 2009 at 12:16 pm #
i also hope that thoh will bring much bigger number of viewers, and i think that we will be pleasantly surprised!reply the cynical part of me expected it to be 4 million, so i suppose its an alright figure.
time for simpsons writers to man up and produce some quality episodes before we loose complete interest.
reply santos l. halper 30 september 2009 at 1:22 pm # i think he’s rating the quality of the episodes, not the # of viewers.
reply pleco 29 september 2009 at 12:27 pm # hey smiles i don’t know what planet you been livin on but there is no  way anyone could say that piece of crap season premiere could be ranked in  ranked in anything, unless it’s suckiest episodes of all time.
the ratings are respectable but everything did better that night and i wish
the whopper viewer ratings for last night’s animation domination have  been released.
though  around the world, i do believe it will always remain the best.
da doggone daddy-daughter dinner dance 8.7 (the  cleveland show) 4.
thoh xx needs to pull in over 10 million viewers.
fox was 2nd among adults 18-49 on the night behind nbc with it’s  sunday night football.
certainly in the usa and thats the way it’ll be certainly until one or either dies out.
but this is nowhere near cancellation numbersreply solid ratingsreply screw family guy.
honestly, i expected more.
calum 4 october 2009 at 2:20 pm # good ratings and a good episode reply adam 5 october 2009 at 11:26 am # guys i apologise for not updating about bart gets a z .
certainly in the usa and  thats the way it’ll be certainly until one or either dies out.
if other episodes in this season are as good as this one, there in  absolutely no reason for worrying about the future of the show!
not how many people watched it i couldn’t care less how many people watched it.
and i wish the simpsons could defeat family guy sometimes
people see the first episode and as some will stay, people expect to see a good start and won’t get it.
if i’m honest, family guy is starting to become more and more popular  around the world and we’ve gotta accept that.
it was a good episode i rated a b and good ratings on homer the whooper, though it was the first of the  season so was expected to have good ratings.
i also hope that thoh will bring much bigger number of viewers, and i think  that we will be pleasantly surprised!
family guy was freakin hilarious and even the cleavland show was better!
reply if you agree brian 28 september 2009 at 7:17 pm # the cleveland show had 9.42 million viewers
i thought that rates will be around 10 million,  but this is still not bad for a first episode of new season.
i’m feeling  unwell and am updating this from my bed.
there are no more heavy  shadows like in the simpsons movie, more segments of the show are hand drawn  instead computer animated, and all in all everything looks more natural.
fox was 2nd among adults 18-49 on the night behind nbc with it’s sunday night football.
website rate: at long last leave view results | polls archiveloading ...