he juggles the  roles of husband, father, safety inspector at the springfield nuclear power  plant, bowler, beer drinker, astronaut, small business owner and dreamer, and  makes it all look easy.
in addition to the recent best-seller the simpsons: a complete guide  to our favorite family, groening's books, based on "life in hell" and  the simpsons include love is hell, work is hell, school is hell, the big book  of hell, akbar & jeff's guide to life, love is hell 10th anniversary
the simpsons the simpsons can life get any better for homer j. simpson?
he juggles the roles of husband, father, safety inspector at the springfield nuclear power plant, bowler, beer drinker, astronaut, small business owner and dreamer, and makes it all look easy.
he couldn't have done any of those things without the help and support of his best friend, santa's little helper.
but it wasn't always so easy for homer j. raised by his father, abe, who tried to compensate for the absence of homer's radical hippie mother, homer graduated at the bottom of his high school class and managed to earn the distinction of being the longest-term entry-level employee at the plant.
groening, a native of portland, oregon, resides  in los angeles.
together with his high school sweetheart, marge bouvier, homer settled  down in evergreen terrace, the nicest upper-lower-middle class section of  springfield, to raise his three precious children.
lisa simpson can't wait for college.
lisa wants everyone to know  that she is a vegetarian and that if she could have one thing (besides world  peace), it would be a pony.
she's only 8 and already reads  at a 14th grade level, and has written a number of application-quality essays,  one of which won her family a free trip to washington, d.c.
her favorite  activities include playing her saxophone, attending school and reading  non-threatening boys magazine.
in 1995 he founded and published  "zongo comics," which included jimbo and fleener.
wrongly pegged as an underachiever and troublemaker, bart would like to remind the world of some of his decent qualities: he looks out for his sister, lisa; he's befriended outcasts and misfits like milhouse van houten and ralph wiggum; he's injected romance into the life of his teacher, edna krabappel; and he brought down an illegal french winery during his brief semester abroad.
celebrity pictures copyright 2000 © hollywoodauditions.comterms of use privacy policy
in 1993 he formed bongo comic group, whereby he serves as publisher over the following: "simpsons comics," itchy & scratchy comics, bartman, radioactive man, lisa comics and krusty comics.
unfortunately, no one wanted to buy a talking doll that was as judgmental as lisa.
groening, a native of portland, oregon, resides in los angeles.
matt groening changed television forever  when he brought animation back to primetime with this immortal nuclear family.
she's only 8 and already reads at a 14th grade level, and has written a number of application-quality essays, one of which won her family a free trip to washington, d.c.
bart simpson is misunderstood.
in addition to the recent best-seller the simpsons: a complete guide to our favorite family, groening's books, based on "life in hell" and the simpsons include love is hell, work is hell, school is hell, the big book of hell, akbar & jeff's guide to life, love is hell 10th anniversary edition, binky's guide to love, the simpsons xmas book, the simpsons
wrongly pegged as an underachiever  and troublemaker, bart would like to remind the world of some of his decent  qualities: he looks out for his sister, lisa; he's befriended outcasts and  misfits like milhouse van houten and ralph wiggum; he's injected romance into  the life of his teacher, edna krabappel; and he brought down an illegal french  winery during his brief semester abroad.
originally brought to life in 1987 for fox's emmy award-winning series the tracey ullman show, the simpsons was groening's introduction into the animation world.
at age  10, bart has managed to live out a number of dreams: he has starred in his own  short-lived tv series (with his idol, krusty the clown), spotted and named a  deadly comet that nearly destroyed his town, and almost snagged the role of  fallout boy in the radioactive man movie.
edition, binky's guide to love, the simpsons xmas book, the simpsons rainy day  fun book, making faces with the simpsons, bart simpson's guide to life, the  simpsons' uncensored family album, cartooning with the simpsons, simpsons  illustrated magazine, simpson comics & stories comic book, simpsons comics  extravaganza, simpsons comics spectacular, bartman: the best of the best, and  simpsons comics simps-o-rama.
for other tv shows click here!
homer is fond of duff beer,  donuts, marge's pork chops and watching the bee guy on the spanish channel.
together with his high school sweetheart, marge bouvier, homer settled down in evergreen terrace, the nicest upper-lower-middle class section of springfield, to raise his three precious children.
matt groening changed television forever when he brought animation back to primetime with this immortal nuclear family.
in 1993 he formed  bongo comic group, whereby he serves as publisher over the following:  "simpsons comics," itchy & scratchy comics, bartman, radioactive  man, lisa comics and krusty comics.
lisa wants everyone to know that she is a vegetarian and that if she could have one thing (besides world peace), it would be a pony.
so what if he's also befouled the  springfield community church with phony hymns or prank-called moe's tavern  several times a day for the last few years?
a fan of malibu stacy, lisa tried unsuccessfully  to create her own talking doll, lisa lionheart.
previously, he was best known for his "life in hell" cartoon strip, an irreverent portrayal of broken life that debuted in 1977 and currently appears in more than 250 newspapers worldwide.
he is also creator and executive producer of the fox animated series futurama.
he couldn't have done any of those  things without the help and support of his best friend, santa's little helper.
originally brought to life in 1987 for fox's emmy award-winning series the  tracey ullman show, the simpsons was groening's introduction into the animation  world.
in addition to producing his weekly strip, keeping on top of the ongoing production demands of the weekly television series, and meeting regularly with the bongo team, groening oversees all aspects of the licensing and merchandising of the simpsons.
so what if he's also befouled the springfield community church with phony hymns or prank-called moe's tavern several times a day for the last few years?
in addition to  producing his weekly strip, keeping on top of the ongoing production demands of  the weekly television series, and meeting regularly with the bongo team,  groening oversees all aspects of the licensing and merchandising of the  simpsons.
in 1995 he founded and published "zongo comics," which included jimbo and fleener.
it all balances out, right?
a fan of malibu stacy, lisa tried unsuccessfully to create her own talking doll, lisa lionheart.
her favorite activities include playing her saxophone, attending school and reading non-threatening boys magazine.
unfortunately, no one wanted to  buy a talking doll that was as judgmental as lisa.
rainy day fun book, making faces with the simpsons, bart simpson's guide to life, the simpsons' uncensored family album, cartooning with the simpsons, simpsons illustrated magazine, simpson comics & stories comic book, simpsons comics extravaganza, simpsons comics spectacular, bartman: the best of the best, and simpsons comics simps-o-rama.
homer is fond of duff beer, donuts, marge's pork chops and watching the bee guy on the spanish channel.
previously, he was best known for his "life in hell" cartoon  strip, an irreverent portrayal of broken life that debuted in 1977 and  currently appears in more than 250 newspapers worldwide.
his dislikes include his boss, mr. burns, yard work and his neighbor, ned flanders.
at age 10, bart has managed to live out a number of dreams: he has starred in his own short-lived tv series (with his idol, krusty the clown), spotted and named a deadly comet that nearly destroyed his town, and almost snagged the role of fallout boy in the radioactive man movie.
his  dislikes include his boss, mr. burns, yard work and his neighbor, ned flanders.
but it wasn't always so easy for homer j. raised by his  father, abe, who tried to compensate for the absence of homer's radical hippie  mother, homer graduated at the bottom of his high school class and managed to  earn the distinction of being the longest-term entry-level employee at the  plant.