but while this new  set may have fewer episodes than some of the previous sets, there are still a  ton of extra features, every bit as funny as the series itself.
the jokes fly fast and furious between this group of highly talented people.
so, in an unprecedented move, the studio decided to bring back the  previously cancelled show, much to the delight of audiences everywhere.
but then something wonderful happened.
“family guy,” unfortunately succumbed to low ratings after its third season of being pushed around to different time slots and constant preemptions.
the very first scene shows peter standing in front of his family and talking about how long of a summer it had been, but goes on to say how wonderful it was to have sooo many terrific shows to watch.
only the  best and the brightest will catch them all.
the  jokes fly fast and furious between this group of highly talented people.
it combined the rapid-fire editing of the “simpsons” with the taboo humor of “south park” and delivered a constant barrage of laughs.
not bad for a 'cancelled' series.
additionally there are about 43 deleted scenes from the season and some animatics that can be accessed from your dvd-rom.
“family guy,” unfortunately succumbed to low ratings after its  third season of being pushed around to different time slots and constant  preemptions.
on the brighter side, fox  did finally make a good decision in releasing “family guy” on to  the dvd market.
the sales of these dvd sets were astronomical and somehow convinced the ‘suits’ at fox that there was an opportunity to make even more money off of the griffin family.
they had previously released “volume 1”, which included the 1st and 2nd seasons and “volume 2”, which had the third and final season.
the very first  scene shows peter standing in front of his family and talking about how long of  a summer it had been, but goes on to say how wonderful it was to have sooo many  terrific shows to watch.
and just as "the  simpsons" has big stars fighting to do voiceover work, this handful of  episodes includes 'appearances' from the likes of robert downey jr., charles  durning, frank sinatra jr., wallace shawn, carrie fisher, will sasso, bob  barker, sherman helmsley, marion ross, tom bosley, paula abdul, jay leno, carol  channing, bob costas, pat sajak, alex trebek, carrot top, bryan cranston, adam  carolla, betty white, and michael clarke duncan.
“family guy,” re-premiered in may of 2005, and immediately made  fun of the studios decision to cancel it in the first place.
in the aftermath of the re-premiere of  “family guy,” we’re also finding that we have an all-new  “volume 4” dvd set to get our grubby little hands on.
i honestly don’t  think i’ve ever laughed so hard and so long at the expense of others.
there are also multi angle comparisons for scenes from four of the episodes, which give you the opportunity to see how the original storyboards looked.
we live in an age of ridiculously defended political correctness where people are afraid to make fun of anything.
this new  season brought with it the opportunity to see just how much more offensive it  could get without being edited.
episodes: brian goes back to college the courtship of  stewie's father the fat guy strangler the father, the son and the  holy fonz brian sings and swings
basically, it got the same type of treatment from fox that  eventually killed “futurama.”
[ resident dvdvil ] wednesday, november 22, 2006 if there was ever an animated series that should have been saved from  cancellation, it had to be “family guy.”
this show is refreshing in its  gleeful attempts to tick off everyone on the planet.
just to give you an example… the first episodes of the third season alone, “the thin white line”, poked fun at drug abuse, pregnant teenagers, people in wheelchairs and charles manson.
only the best and the brightest will catch them all.
(volume 3  came out a few months back.)
resident dvdvil :: family guy: volume 4 if there was ever an animated series that should have been saved from cancellation, it had to be “family guy.”
i can hardly begin to describe some of the best (worst?) of the jokes, but if you think it is impossible to get any more offensive than playing “catch the greased-up deaf guy”, you couldn’t be more wrong.
plus you'll find a 14 minute behind the scenes featurette that allows  mcfarlane and some of his other directors to show us how an animation director  does his job, a short visit with artist peter shin who shows us how to draw  stewie, and a look at the "family guy" offices as actor adam west is  given a tour.
it combined  the rapid-fire editing of the “simpsons” with the taboo humor of  “south park” and delivered a constant barrage of laughs.
but while this new set may have fewer episodes than some of the previous sets, there are still a ton of extra features, every bit as funny as the series itself.
no topic  was too controversial, no joke to perverse.
every single  episode has commentary with seth mcfarlane, who is joined on and off by just  about everyone who ever had anything to do with the series.
they had previously released “volume 1”, which  included the 1st and 2nd seasons and “volume 2”, which had the  third and final season.
not bad for a  'cancelled' series.
i can hardly begin to describe some of the best  (worst?) of the jokes, but if you think it is impossible to get any more  offensive than playing “catch the greased-up deaf guy”, you  couldn’t be more wrong.
being a person who has always felt that any form of support for political correctness was for the ‘intellectually challenged,’ “family guy” consistently struck me as one of the funniest of the prime time animated series.
(volume 3 came out a few months back.)
this show is refreshing in its gleeful attempts to tick off everyone on the planet.
we live in an age of ridiculously defended political correctness  where people are afraid to make fun of anything.
additionally there are about 43 deleted scenes from the season  and some animatics that can be accessed from your dvd-rom.
so, in an unprecedented move, the studio decided to bring back the previously cancelled show, much to the delight of audiences everywhere.
after the release of that 2nd volume,  “family guy” fans such as myself figured we had seen the last of  peter griffin, his wife lois and his three adorable children, meg, chris and  little stewie.
“family guy” is not for everyone, but it should be.
“family guy,” re-premiered in may of 2005, and immediately made fun of the studios decision to cancel it in the first place.
he then proceeds to name off every failed series that  fox had aired in their time slot since the cancellation.
this new season brought with it the opportunity to see just how much more offensive it could get without being edited.
there are also multi angle comparisons for scenes from four of the  episodes, which give you the opportunity to see how the original storyboards  looked.
plus you'll find a 14 minute behind the scenes featurette that allows mcfarlane and some of his other directors to show us how an animation director does his job, a short visit with artist peter shin who shows us how to draw stewie, and a look at the "family guy" offices as actor adam west is given a tour.
“family guy” is not for everyone, but  it should be.
every single episode has commentary with seth mcfarlane, who is joined on and off by just about everyone who ever had anything to do with the series.
and  to prove that it is directed at the intellectuals amongst us, what other show  can give you mc escher, music man, and kool-aid commercial references?
just to give you an  example… the first episodes of the third season alone, “the thin  white line”, poked fun at drug abuse, pregnant teenagers, people in  wheelchairs and charles manson.
after the release of that 2nd volume, “family guy” fans such as myself figured we had seen the last of peter griffin, his wife lois and his three adorable children, meg, chris and little stewie.
and that’s just the tip of the iceberg.
being a person who has  always felt that any form of support for political correctness was for the  ‘intellectually challenged,’ “family guy” consistently  struck me as one of the funniest of the prime time animated series.
he then proceeds to name off every failed series that fox had aired in their time slot since the cancellation.
basically, it got the same type of treatment from fox that eventually killed “futurama.”
no topic was too controversial, no joke to perverse.
the commentaries  are informative, but even more important… they're entertaining.
i  mean really, isn’t kind of funny to sneak into a pregnant teen center and  put all of girl’s hands into bowls of water while they’re sleeping?
and just as "the simpsons" has big stars fighting to do voiceover work, this handful of episodes includes 'appearances' from the likes of robert downey jr., charles durning, frank sinatra jr., wallace shawn, carrie fisher, will sasso, bob barker, sherman helmsley, marion ross, tom bosley, paula abdul, jay leno, carol channing, bob costas, pat sajak, alex trebek, carrot top, bryan cranston, adam carolla, betty white, and michael clarke duncan.
the commentaries are informative, but even more important… they're entertaining.
episodes: ptv brian goes back to college the courtship of stewie's father the fat guy strangler the father, the son and the holy fonz brian sings and swings patriot games i take thee quagmire sibling rivalry deep throats peterotica you may now kiss the… uh… guy who receives petergeist the griffin family history starring (the voices of): seth macfarlane, alex borstein, mila kunis, seth green extras: commentaries on every episode by series creator seth mcfarlane, producers, directors, writers and cast members, multi-angle scene studies, deleted scenes, a director's life - debunking the myth featurette, peter shin draws stewie featurette, behind the scenes - a glimpse into the family guy, optional censored track on 5 episodes specifications: full screen, dolby digital 5.1 surround sound studio: 20th century fox home entertainment release date:
it contains all 14 of the episodes from the second  half of the show’s 4th season’.
11/14/2006 region 1 mpaa rating: nr website we'll give family guy: volume 4 an a.
well… uhh… isn’t it?
the sales of these dvd  sets were astronomical and somehow convinced the ‘suits’ at fox  that there was an opportunity to make even more money off of the griffin  family.
on the brighter side, fox did finally make a good decision in releasing “family guy” on to the dvd market.
i honestly don’t think i’ve ever laughed so hard and so long at the expense of others.
it contains all 14 of the episodes from the second half of the show’s 4th season’.
and to prove that it is directed at the intellectuals amongst us, what other show can give you mc escher, music man, and kool-aid commercial references?
in the aftermath of the re-premiere of “family guy,” we’re also finding that we have an all-new “volume 4” dvd set to get our grubby little hands on.
i mean really, isn’t kind of funny to sneak into a pregnant teen center and put all of girl’s hands into bowls of water while they’re sleeping?