reply with quote simpsons - 7.5/10 declining as it gets older, the occasional highlight, lisa episodes are cringeworthy, homer is still the best...
well if you or any others think you can't talk about a  subject, without resorting to stupid name calling/insulting each other, i think  that is a sensible choice abo.
ok  then i'm adding everyone who thinks family guy is better than south park to my  ignore.:-)
and it is uneducated and full of low morals and obesity.
or are all 3 rubbish  ?
reply with quote south park
reply with quote 21,044 originally posted by parksey10 the  simpsons episodes from the 90s and early 2000s make it the best animated series  of all time.
they should just go back to writing episodes like they used to instead of the celebrity cameo heavy **** they do these days.
i would kick them out of the house, it is that bad, it is that lame and it
reply with quote but in order: 1) simpsons 2) south park 3) family guy the gap between simpsons and south park isn't much since the simpson's are turning to ****, but the gap between south park and family guy is substantial (but again, i like all 3) south park.
reply with quote depends whether i'm home or not posts 6,268 the simpsons episodes from the 90s and early 2000s make it the  best animated series of all time.
reply with quote which is the best ?
reply with quote still, that doesn't stop anyone from just watching the old episodes, which is what i do.
but suppose for a second that your house was ransacked by thugs,your family was tied up in the basement, with socks in their mouths!
i don't even care if the new episodes suck,  it will take a helluva lot to surpass that genius era of comedy.
reply with quote depends whether i'm home or not posts 6,268 i get that, but for me, they're never not gonna be ahead.
reply with quotereply with quote originally posted by salford redreply
depending on the topic, either brilliant (bouncy scrotum) or awful (imaginationland), one week great, one awful... honorable mention to archer, robot chicken, drawn together, cleveland show, futurama and american dad... i used to love the simpsons, but i think it's gone worse as times go by, i guess there's only so much you can do over 20 years though.
reply with quote the simpsons episodes from the 90s and early 2000s make it the best animated series of all time.
you try to open the door, but there's too much blood on the knob...
south park hands downreply with quote simpsons is the original, it has a wider appeal too, i would say it's the best for that reason, although my personal favorite is south park.
but it's gone to shite.
posts 40,672 don't use this thread for stupid name calling/insulting each  other.
reply with quote south park is by some distance the best, some of the episodes are just genius, and scott tenorman must die is probably one of my favourite episdes from any show.
they're diluting that brilliance with this current brand of shite.
reply with quote posts 7,553 i think family guy is the best out of the three.
well if  you or any others think you can't talk about a subject, without resorting to  stupid name calling/insulting each other, i think that is a sensible choice abo.
family guy i think is best, but south park is genius at times, love the c**n vs c**n and friends episode is greatreply with quote "mayor quimby, you're well known, sir, for your lenient stance on crime.
"reply with quote "erra, what is your question?" "my questions is about the budget, sir..." no arguement.
reply with quote don't use this thread for stupid name calling/insulting each other.
depending on the topic, either brilliant (bouncy scrotum) orawful (imaginationland), one week great, one awful...
i think family guy is the best out of the three.
i haven't seen any of the past 2-3 new series.
south park in my opinion is the best and the funniest out the 3.
originally posted by noxiousdreply with quote south park - 8/10
i don't even care if the new episodes suck, it will take a helluva lot to surpass that genius era of comedy.
i like the simpsons and south park, but family guy is alot more funnier imo.
well if you or any others think you can't talk about a subject, without resorting to stupid name calling/insulting each other, i think that is a sensible choice abo.
but then i do enjoy watching all 3, just lately simpsons doesnt seem to be as good as it used to be.
i don't even care if the new episodes suck, it will take a helluva  lot to surpass that genius era of comedy.
then i'm adding everyone who thinks family guy is better than south park to my ignore.:-)
was the simpsons for a long, long time but  it's gone to shite.
i'm very open minded, but if i catch my kids watching family guy i would kick them out of the house, it is that bad, it is that lame
reply with quote posts 21,044 south park for me.
don't use this thread for stupid name calling/insulting each other.
still, that doesn't stop anyone from just watching the old episodes,  which is what i do.
the older  episodes are alot more funnier than the current ones.
the simpsons  is still good to watch, it's just not the same anymore though.
posts 40,672 originally posted by salford
i like the  simpsons and south park, but family guy is alot more funnier imo.
they're diluting that brilliance with this  current brand of shite.
ok then i'm adding everyone who thinks family guy is better than south park to my ignore.:-)
reply with quote originally posted by parksey10reply with quote the simpsons episodes from the 90s and early 2000s make it the best animated series of all time.
the older episodes are alot more funnier than the current ones.
35 years in the bitters faces posts 16,971 south park v family guy v simpsons thread seeing as there are quite a few members on here who like 1, 2 or  all 3 (or non) of the above.
the simpsons is still good to watch, it's just not the same anymore though.
originally posted by abojodehreply with quote don't use this thread for stupid name calling/insulting each other.
was the simpsons for a long, long time
is uneducated and full of low morals and obesity.
reply with quote 35 years in the bitters faces posts originally posted by abojodeh don't use  this thread for stupid name calling/insulting each other.
they  should just go back to writing episodes like they used to instead of the  celebrity cameo heavy **** they do these days.
reply with  quote in a large haunted testicle am a lonely sperm :(
reply with quote depends whether i'm home or not posts in a large haunted testicle am a lonely sperm :(
reply with quote family guy is well behind.
which is the best episode/series of your choice?
family guy is okay, there are still some moments where i laugh, but i think you need to understand american culture/celebrities to appreciate more.
forum rules-- mut-v405 -- mut-v405b -- mut-v405b-wide follow manutdtalk.com on twitter join manutdtalk.com on facebook one of the uk's most popular news portals.
if the simpsons had been stopped in about 2001 it would be top of my list but its bottom due to the last 9 yearsreply with quote family guy - 9.5/10 improving as it gets older, the occasional misfire with political episodes that suck, but great 9 out of 10 times, stewie/brian and peter episodes always being hilarious...
family guy12 21.05% simpsons17 29.82% south park24 42.11% they are all crap2 3.51% what's family guy, simpsons and south park ?2 3.51% seeing as there are quite a few members on here who like 1, 2 or all 3 (or non) of the above.
ok then i'm adding everyone who thinks family guy is  better than south park to my ignore.:-)
i'm very open minded, but if i catch my kids watching family
that's why they should have  stopped when they were ahead.
or are all 3 rubbish ?
i guess they've run out of ideas.
don't use this thread for stupid name calling/insulting each  other.
that's why they should have stopped when they were ahead.
i get that, but for me, they're never not gonna be ahead.