so they will be on for years to come.
carl hasn’t changed that  much.
it will  make good impression on viewers to see few good episodes consecutively week by  week.
also the level of detail  that is now in episodes, like the backgrounds
impressed, thought it was going to be simply downhill for a little while.
reply brilliant lets keep it over 9 mil get it back to 10 mil and we will finally see simpsons beating family guy again….
view results | polls archiveloading ...
reply nicolas 18 november 2009 at 3:57 pm # @pleco-
fox was third overall for the night and second among the 18 – 49 demographic.
an odd little hike back up the ratings scales isn’t it?
reply santos l. halper 16 november 2009 at 10:27 pm # pretty good episode.
it’s surely one of the best (if not the best) episode  in new season.
really happy that f.g lost to simpsons much better ratings that last season great site!reply yeah!
really happy that f.g  lost to simpsons much better ratings that last season great site!
toby 16 november 2009 at 9:53 pm #
hope they’ll stay above family guy reply dominic 17 november 2009 at 3:43 pm # brilliant news!
this was fresh episode after almost half a month… anyway, we will see if this high rate trend will continue in the next few  episodes, my highest hopes… reply pleco 18 november 2009 at 3:29 am # good episode.
first what you need to know is that between simpsons and family guy  have been a great competition since the family guy started as a show on fox.
everyone acts like it is a damn football game on here.
sherlock holmes had his dr. moriarty, mountain dew has its mellow yellow, even maggie has that baby with the one eyebrow.”
this makes the episode the second highest rated this season, behind ‘bart gets a ‘z’ which had 9.32 million viewers last month.
carl hasn’t changed that much.
last night’s episode ‘the devil wears nada’ had a total of 9.04 million viewers.
but it’s a friendly competition
and just to note, i wish all the luck to family guy, but as long as they  are direct competition to the simpsons, i can’t say that i would like to  see them in the air instead of simpsons… reply fliz 18 november 2009 at 5:37 pm # @pleco – just like lisa said in 1f18, “everybody needs a  nemesis.
finally simpsons are back in the saddle again!
it was a great episode too, though carl was too harsh to homer –  reminds me of how harsh paul is to barry in chucklevision reply homermarge 17 november 2009 at 3:36 pm # awesome ratings, awesome episode!
i’m very  happy with this numbers, and i’m so glad that simpsons finally got higher  rates that the family guy!!!
i don’t think that f.g. is bad show (although i don’t like kind of art, or the way gags are presented in show), but i surely like simpsons much, much more, and i can say that i’m really proud on the simpsons when i see that their ratings are better than family guys.
i hope that next episode will be as good as this one-
etc really adds something new.
in ways you’re just beginning to realise.
nbc was the winner in both categories.
reply awesome. season 21 is shaping up to be a great.
it was a great episode too, though carl was too harsh to homer – reminds me of how harsh paul is to barry in chucklevisionreply awesome ratings, awesome episode!
also the level of detail that is now in episodes, like the backgrounds etc really adds something new.
this was fresh episode after almost half a month… anyway, we will see if this high rate trend will continue in the next few episodes, my highest hopes…reply good episode.
and just to note, i wish all the luck to family guy, but as long as they are direct competition to the simpsons, i can’t say that i would like to see them in the air instead of simpsons…reply @pleco – just like lisa said in 1f18, “everybody needs a nemesis.
posted by: adam 16 responses to “ratings: the devil wears nada”
it will make good impression on viewers to see few good episodes consecutively week by week.
i don’t think that f.g. is bad show (although i don’t like kind  of art, or the way gags are presented in show), but i surely like simpsons  much, much more, and i can say that i’m really proud on the simpsons when  i see that their ratings are better than family guys.
this makes me so happy.
a new episode titled “pranks and greens” airs next sunday night.
season 21 is shaping up to be a great.
i’m very happy with this numbers, and i’m so glad that simpsons finally got higher rates that the family guy!!!
and the simpsons has family guy.
i hope that rates are not this high just because simpsons made a little  two-week break.
an odd little hike back up  the ratings scales isn’t it?
hope they’ll stay above family guyreply brilliant news!
i suspect awesome ratings, sound stuff.
why is it important for the simpsons to beat family guy?
i’m happy to hear that it beat fg.
reply ranok 16 november 2009 at 10:27 pm # awesome.
reply santos l. halper 17 november 2009 at 12:39 pm #
impressed, thought it was going to be simply  downhill for a little while.
reply hands up who thinks it was high just because of the opportunity to see marge as a calendar girl?
reason for that is surely cause f.g. made simpsons ratings much lower, they  literally took over over 1/4 (or even more) of old viewers from the simpsons.
reply tyler 17 november 2009 at 12:26 am # its suspect santos, ways youre just beginning to suspect.
sherlock holmes had his dr. moriarty, mountain dew has its mellow  yellow, even maggie has that baby with the one eyebrow.”
i agree with mr tim, carl was harsh to homer.
reply gaulty 17 november 2009 at 1:35 pm # hands up who thinks it was high just because of the opportunity to see  marge as a calendar girl?
reply mr tim 17 november 2009 at 1:44 pm # brilliant lets keep it over 9 mil get it back to 10 mil and we will finally  see simpsons beating family guy again….
reply marbat 2 december 2009 at 1:12 pm # the episode was ok not the best so far but still ok my overall score is 7.7/10
i suspect  awesome ratings, sound stuff.
too late to edit my post.
well done!reply pretty good episode.
but it’s a friendly competition  i’d hope reply eximius 19 november 2009 at 8:23 am # sex sells!
i’d hopereply sex sells!reply i finally saw this episode today, and it’s really no wonder why it had so many viewer-
i say we be glad both shows are doing great so they will be on for years to come.
the simpsons figures were helped by the overrun of the preceding football match but kept it on top for the night.
it’s surely one of the best (if not the best) episode in new season.
it will stabilize ratings, and hopefully will make real break through after few not-so-great seasons, just what this show needs!reply the episode was ok not the best so far but still ok my overall score is 7.7/10 name (required) mail (will not be published) (required) website rate: them, robot view results | polls archiveloading ...
—favorite joke— homer: see?
the cleveland show followed with 7.01 million viewers, while a usually-dominant family guy had 8.28 million viewers at 9:00 (yes, it was a new episode too).
very funny episode hopefully now fox will keep going with the simpsons!
i agree with mr tim, carl was harsh to  homer.
i hope that rates are not this high just because simpsons made a little two-week break.
reason for that is surely cause f.g. made simpsons ratings much lower, they literally took over over 1/4 (or even more) of old viewers from the simpsons.
please rate the devil wears nada below, if you haven’t already: what do you rate the devil wears nada?
i say we be glad both  shows are doing great
copyright © 1997 - 2010 simpsons channel.
this website, it's owners, and any content on this site is not authorized by fox.
american dad had 5.99 million viewers at 9.30pm.
it will stabilize ratings, and hopefully will make real break through  after few not-so-great seasons, just what this show needs!
first what you need to know is that between simpsons and family guy have been a great competition since the family guy started as a show on fox.
nicolas 17 november 2009 at 3:56 pm #
its suspect santos, ways youre just beginning to suspect.
reply nicolas 22 november 2009 at 2:16 pm # i finally saw this episode today, and it’s really no wonder why it  had so many viewer-