and then there's this youtube film which i can imagine being claimed in the following days or weeks: the answer probably lies withing their family: none of the simpsons (apart from lisa, and even she can have her moments) were ever ashamed to let themselves be used if there was any fame, money, reputation, status,... to be gained.
boys noize: bugged out presents suck my deck: mixed by boys noize excellent overview of some of the hottest stuff from the past years (with some rare, reworked classics dropped in for good measure).
and this time they're the good guys... r gold: the plenitude creativity, innovation and making stuff: creativity, innovation, and making stuff (simplicity: design, technology, business, life): creativity, ...
j. k. rowling: harry potter and the deathly hallows it's over, and it was a great ride...
fantastic stuff; various artists: kitsune maison vol.6 latest in an excellent series, with highlights from lo-fi-fnk and grovesnor (a great hot chip remix) various artists: ed rec vol.3 pedro winter and the boys from the ed banger label are still very much alive.
random bits & pieces to inspire and enlighten « evolving the models | main | planner garb » more simpson shenanigans
garr reynolds: presentation zen: simple ideas on presentation design and delivery (voices that matter) almost as good as the site.
so i was kind of curious.
« evolving the models | main | planner garb » following the kwik-e-mart 7/11 story i started snooping around for other simpson related marketing tactics and asked myself the question: why doesn't anyone fret about the fact that our yellow friends are being exploited by all kinds of corporate icons all over the globe?
harder, faster, better than a normal album, and the crowd noise just makes it better
and then there's this youtube film  which i can imagine being claimed in the following days or weeks: the answer probably lies withing their family: none of the simpsons (apart  from lisa, and even she can have her moments) were ever ashamed to let  themselves be used if there was any fame, money, reputation, status,... to be  gained.
and in that way they are much like modern consumers: we know google probably has more data on us than we keep ourselves, we know advertising is paying for media, we willingly pay a premium for products which create a compelling story around themselves.
and what would the wolf be like?
some purists might try and tell you otherwise but they've still got it.
and while we know all that, rationally, we let our hearts, our fantasies, our emotions take over when shop, read, listen, travel,... i don't think there ever was a group of media characters who reflected our own lives so well (the sheer volume of the series helps out here), there's a bit of us in every simpson and a bit of simpson in everyone of us, and that's probably why they can get away with this kind of stuff.
not for the neurotics among us though.
and in that way they are much like modern consumers: we know google  probably has more data on us than we keep ourselves, we know advertising is  paying for media, we willingly pay a premium for products which create a  compelling story around themselves.
an intense experience for a book... mike carey: hellblazer: gift i've picked up on the series again, and it remains quite good.
i'm a pretty big fan myself
and the intro is pretty good when you're trying to convince people to stop using ppt as a bullet point generator.
i'd never take this out on the basis of the tracklist, but the female vocals and the attention to detail to every last song on here makes it into something truly fantastic.
hercules & love affair: hercules and love affair ooooh, disco as it should be...
if you want to get a taste of what a dirty dancefloor can offer today, this is a fantastic place to start...
09 july 2007 | permalink trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451999269e200e0098f2e1a8833 listed below are links to weblogs that reference more simpson shenanigans: the comments to this entry are closed.
a must read for everyone involved in ideas, the form really doesn't matter.
this is daft punk at their best.
design, technology, business, life) rich gold was probably one of the most unique creative thinkers around, a truly multidisciplinary genius and probably far too modest.
i mean, just follow up on all the different activities here, the kwik-e-mart in seven eleven (follow up onthis blog), it all looks fantastic, even though some of the stuff is justreally clever promotional stuff (check out their destination guide on the same page).
09 july 2007 | permalink trackback url for this entry: http://www.typepad.com/services/trackback/6a00d83451999269e200e0098f2e1a8833
crispin porter: hoopla probably one of the hottest shops around,
build better beats fancy me building better beats ;-) this is quite good actually, i'd be better of polishing up on some of the basics but this has got some really cool tips and tweaks.
hollywood mon amour: hollywood mon amour
bill willingham: fables: legends in exile (vertigo) how would snow white cope in the real world?
following the kwik-e-mart 7/11 story i started snooping around for other  simpson related marketing tactics and asked myself the question: why doesn't  anyone fret about the fact that our yellow friends are being exploited by all  kinds of corporate icons all over the globe?
garth ennis: the boys: the name of the game v. 1 garth ennis produces another corker, an government funded anti superhero team saves the day.
sexy sweet latin american guitar sounds, but uptempo with a tight rhythm and more than enough balls.
carl craig: sessions still going strong after so many years, and this (rare) compilation makes it that much clearer.
i mean, just follow up on all the different activities here, the  kwik-e-mart in seven eleven (follow up onthis blog), it all looks fantastic,  even though some of the stuff is justreally clever promotional stuff (check out  their destination guide on the same page).
imagine what they get in return and ask yourselves if you would turn down  the deal...
subscribe in a reader garth ennis: garth ennis' chronicles of wormwood i seem to be on a bit of an ennis binge lately after starting with the boys, but this is actually just as good.
and 'throw' will get you every time...
ernie schenck: the houdini solution learn to think inside the box...
rodrigo y gabriela: rodrigo y gabriela [cd + dvd] oooh, fantastic!
and i don't really seem to bother either...
do check out the frankie knuckles remix of blind as well.
completely bonkers and all the better for it.
if you had not noticed, i love this album...
i'm a bit too late to discover this and am having a hard time finding the second bundle, if anyone can help me out let me know.
and i  don't really seem to bother either...
daft punk: alive 2007
imagine what they get in return and ask yourselves if you would turn down the deal...
funhouse techno redefined.
and while we know all that, rationally, we  let our hearts, our fantasies, our emotions take over when shop, read, listen,  travel,... i don't think there ever was a group of media characters who reflected our  own lives so well (the sheer volume of the series helps out here), there's a  bit of us in every simpson and a bit of simpson in everyone of us, and that's  probably why they can get away with this kind of stuff.