reply eximius 12 may 2009 at 7:06 am # i totally disagree.
from the comments on this post: if i hadn’t learned to try to enjoy every remaining episode this site would have been dead in [...] [...] even by people who think zombie simpsons doesn’t suck (check out the ratings, poll, and comments here if you don’t believe me).
the simpsons are the jimi hendrix of tv shows, there  aren’t off shows just ones that appeal to differing viewers.
this seems like it should have been another  “event” episode, even if it was a fantasy sequence.
case in point, the show lost 2 million viewers after a series of lackluster  shows during the strike, culminating with the horrifically bad
reply hey adam, are you gonna keep updating?
but they addressed that in the music… a classic… sure, season 20 may be a sucky season (alaska nebraska can go jump of a cliff for all i care), but four great woman and a manicure is the best episode this season, alongside the burns and the bees and how the test was won.
just look at all the years they have been making episodes for those fans.
the simpsons remain one of the best written shows on tv their writers continue to do justice to a 20 year old brand, no small accomplishment.
the simpsons have 29 – 35 million of viewers.
all five of the least watched episodes have now come in this, the 20th anniversary year.
thank you for  participating.
i think this  careless approach to the simpsons universe is what makes a lot of the most  recent episodes unsuccessful.
it’s better than ever!
but i think that ratings of the  simpsons don’t matter for fox because all countrys of the world love them
the previous all-time low belonged to march episode ‘lisa the drama queen’, which had 5.75 million viewers, so not only is it a new record, it has taken a giant beating by its own weakest episode.
case in point, the show lost 2 million viewers after a series of lackluster shows during the strike, culminating with the horrifically bad that 90s show episode which was barely coherent and clearly needed all the tinkering it could get before being presented to the public.
people should stop talking about the show cancellation.
i laughed the whole  time,i think it was a great epesode.
final episode next sunday.
season 20 has been, without a doubt, the worst season ever.
i  mean, star trek is a only fan based show.
the show will only stop  when the producers or actors decide to stop.
i mean, star trek is a only fan based show.
it seems you have lost your faith in  the simpsons.
the simpsons side is doing everything, theme parks, new games etc.
but luckily people still like the simpsons, so there’s  no reason to worry!
i havn’t seen any episodes on  season 20, but i love all the seasons that i’ve seen anyway (especially  the godlen era: season 3 – 12) but so far, i think season 15 is the  worst, however, i do love it.
i’m never really home sundays at 8pm anymore
i said i loved it but without bart… … maybe in season 21 they will put maggie talking more times… if they did them twice a year… one the treehouse of horrors, and another, something else, i think it would be fine… i don’t think it was just the ‘trilogy’…
they are running out of em  fast.
low ratings have been blamed on lots of things before, but there’s no question about it: people do not like these ‘storytelling’ episodes.
if the cleveland show posts family guy-type numbers consistently next season, fox may decide to axe the simpsons, but if its numbers are at the level of american dad, it probably won’t for a while yet.
you say little country like portugal, what should i say about serbia?
the show will only stop when the producers or actors decide to stop.
a good episode gets people recommending the show again and you saw the audience tick up the next week.
and if i want to denigrate the show for the sake of creating good discussion i’ll do it.
tv might not be  the best way to give ratings any more.
many of them are  very predictable.
maggie’s first full oratory, beautifully executed by jodie foster,  was another example of the simpson’s tongue-in-cheek, philosophical  approach at getting the point across.
i’d rather see a longer episode, of course; and it seems like there  are way too many of these kinda off-kilter variety and what-if episodes  lately… i’m pretty sure the ratings will keep dropping if these  trends continue.
the show just isn’t  funny anymore and a lot of people have lost interest.
reply i liked this episode but these ratings are just really really really appauling.
the show just isn’t funny anymore and a lot of people have lost interest.
today’s viewer would rather watch a 23 minute episode of random disconnected allusions to 80s movies and extended scenes of people falling down and aching over their pain for way too long.
sit down, shut up, of this show i don’t talk!
do you actually like 'storytelling' episodes such as four great women and a manicure?
i didn’t see the promos as i don’t watch anything else on fox,  but the few promos i’ve seen these past few years are usually a footnote  to family guy promos (as in “let’s all watch a great family guy  this week!
i remember when baby maggie had her first word all those years back, it was a huge deal; fox hyped it like crazy.
maybe 5 years from now, but even though the show isn’t the astronomical ratings juggernaut that it once was.
the simpsons should take  this back, because unlike stevie, maggie does not fail when hurting homer.
they alienate the casual simpsons viewer, who are likely to turn off or just not tune in to begin with if the stories do not interest them.
and you can’t judge an episode on it’s ratings, you can only judge the previous week’s episode; that’s why people decide to come back or not.
the simpsons in the season 4 they have 21 – 28 million of viewers and they only have 4 – 6 million of viewers.
what in the  world will disney do???
we don’t have to hate the show just because of the ratings.
the  simpsons in the season 4 they have 21 – 28 million of viewers and they  only have 4 – 6 million of viewers.
it was better than “wedding for disaster” which was i think “the worst episode ever”…lol but seriously 20th season hasn’t come even close to say what the previous seasons were!
reply i’m from portugal, a very small country in europ, 5,16 is almost half of our population, so…reply i’m not in the us, so i didn’t see the advertising for this ep, but did they hype the fact that adult maggie was finally going to speak at all?
lol  what that tells me is that average simpson fan/writer doesnt know the first  thing about history or culture.
also,it seems like fox does no advertisment for the show now, its usually a  family guy commercial with a quick quip, of the simpsons being at 8/9c (at  least from a canadian’s point of view)
they are running out of em fast.
and why would producers and actors stop the show if tv wants new episodes?
reply killertu 13 may 2009 at 7:12 pm # well,you shouldn’t judge the episode by it viewer,because like  i,i’m not gonna take my time and wait for sunday,i would properly busy  and do some other work,i know there are many infact a fan of simpson but  don’t have the hours for it.
reply fliz 12 may 2009 at 2:40 am # i’m with valhum, this season reminded me a lot of older seasons too,  a great thing to see!
i hope the simpsons doesn’t hit that low.
i don’t think it is bad if they keep making episodes for the fans.
and why would producers and actors stop the show if tv wants new  episodes?
reply ndjeff 11 may 2009 at 4:51 pm # the takoff on snow white was so funny i fell off my couch!
give them a  break, might make the audience hungry for it and boost the ratings again.
by fan i mean geeks who are totally into it.
king of the hills they are in season 13, the simpsons in this season they have 11 – 19 million of viewers, and king of the hills in this season they have 3 – 6 million of viewers.
i would like to see a show runner change, maybe to mirkin again
rate: four great women and a manicure view results | polls archiveloading ...
, maybe it’s time for a new executive producer?
this episode was very bland though.
reply archit 11 may 2009 at 3:34 pm # season 20 is nowhere near the worst season ever, the only two reasons why  the episode was bad is because there was no mention or appearance of bart and  it was a story-telling episode.
a good episode gets people recommending the show again and you saw the  audience tick up the next week.
incidentally there’ll be a simpsons, maybe it won’t suck  but family guy rules”).
the 20 season is okey with its ups and downs,but still…maybe some people cant understand new stuff-like maggie talking,hibbert laughing till death…just cannot belive it.really,i dont… its hard for me because i am a huge fan(i beg u keep running!!)
i suggest sitting  back and enjoying every remaining episode.
incidentally there’ll be a simpsons, maybe it won’t suck but family guy rules”).
look at family guy, they hardly get more viewers and are only in their  7th season.
that 90s show  episode which was barely coherent and clearly needed all the tinkering it could  get before being presented to the public.
season 18 and 19 were awesome!
for the people that  want the show to end, what will fox put on in replace of it?
reply raymond bakula 19 may 2009 at 10:49 pm # i disagree with the idea that the quality of a given episode is responsible  for its ratings.
reply adam 12 may 2009 at 11:59 am # eximius, king of the hill.
perhaps at the extremist length skip a year to recoup the ideas, lets be fair, these guys have been working pretty much non-stop for 20 years now with a movie, games and so forth being released as well.
cancel the simpsons is not good is the second more watched in the night in  fox ”the cleveland show” i don’t think so much of this show  the rating is gonna be like ”american dad!”.
family guy also did storytelling last night (stephen king) and i liked it even less actually.
hey adam, are you gonna keep updating?
but luckily people still like the simpsons, so there’s no reason to worry!reply hi everyone.
if the cleveland show posts family guy-type numbers consistently next  season, fox may decide to axe the simpsons, but if its numbers are at the level  of american dad, it probably won’t for a while yet.
if not i see 23 seasons being it.
but i dont  think it will be the end of the show by any means.
reply asdfgh 11 may 2009 at 3:56 pm # didn’t think it was that bad, but i’m not too surprised at the  ratings.
be the advocate for the simpsons you wanted to be when you started and leave the mother f&*(#^% to the critics.
some extremist measures there and maybe i’m going ott here, but might have to be done.
i think this season has been very entertaining, not slapstick funny but sophisticated.
the show rocks regardless of the ratings, don’t let the data drive your posts but rather inform them.
reply season 20 is nowhere near the worst season ever, the only two reasons why the episode was bad is because there was no mention or appearance of bart and it was a story-telling episode.
i didn’t see the promos as i don’t watch anything else on fox, but the few promos i’ve seen these past few years are usually a footnote to family guy promos (as in “let’s all watch a great family guy this week!
tv shows aren’t meant to save the world for you,  you are.
although i still love the simpsons and will watch them until they are  cancelled i think the quality has gone down because the writers now have to  appeal to the slack jawed yokels like the family guy fans who want senseless  entertainment with no thought or subtle humor.
spice it up some way or another.
but after so many episodes, the characters can’t have the same impact they once had.
for the people that want the show to end, what will fox put on in replace of it?reply i must admit that i didn’t enjoy this episode so much.
i’d  just like to say that the ratings were very bad for this episode –  it’s a shame.
ratings may  be down but don’t for a second consider that to indicate that people  didn’t want to tune in because it was a story episode.
people actually hate ’storytelling’  episodes…how can they?
view results | polls archiveloading ... not really surprised.
to keep improving i thing they should rethink the gags.
spurlock’s choice « dead homer society - 11.
(also, its numbers on hulu are apparently great.)
after that it could do this.
but back to my point, given that audiences can’t know if a given episode will be strong or weak on any given night, it’s the quality (or lack thereof) of the preceding episodes that is reflected in the ratings.
it just pisses me the f*ck off!reply bloody hell.
reply oneoftherussiassuperfan 12 may 2009 at 4:20 pm # cant belive it!
reply gaulty 11 may 2009 at 5:18 pm # bloody hell.
it’s the quality of the previous episode(s) that influences the  ratings for a given episode.
reply merzitar 17 may 2009 at 8:23 am # hi everyone.
the fact the simpsons may still be running is fox or generating a huge income from the merch, the dvd’s etc.
give them a break, might make the audience hungry for it and boost the ratings again.
what-if episodes lately… i’m pretty sure the ratings will keep dropping if these trends continue.
5/5reply fox already renewed it for two more seasons.
i havn’t seen this episode yet because i live in  england and as far as i know, it hasn’t been aired here yet.
also, like it said, these episodes aren’t cared about by many fans i  actually like the multi-stories episodes.
also, like it said, these episodes aren’t cared about by many fans i actually like the multi-stories episodes.
even i did not want to watch it, but for the purposes of this website i forced myself to.
website rate: them, robot view results | polls archiveloading ...
reply adam 12 may 2009 at 12:56 pm # that is true, this is a simpsons blog.
another great episode in this very consistant season.
reply bart 11 may 2009 at 8:50 pm # ratings are starting to mean less now that there are internet downloads.
look at family guy, they hardly get more viewers and are only in their 7th season.
let it be known that within minutes after each episode i was on the  internet expressing my disaproval.
those are awful ratings, 0.6 lower than the previous record.
reply i liked this episode and i also like the “storytelling” episodes.
this is something  family guy stole from them, and it has worked awesome.
reply travis from alberta 14 may 2009 at 4:31 am # and how many people have it pvr’d or tivo’d as well?
it’s funny how such a smart and successful show can be lost on such an obviously obtuse viewership.
if you have a great episode (and i think this was by far the absolute best episode these last couple seasons) and it follows a lackluster episode, you’ll have low ratings.
but after so many episodes, the characters can’t have the same  impact they once had.
it’s better  than ever!
i am offering my personal opinion on the overnight ratings.
tastes of tv  viewers today are changing as i’m sure you can infer from the ratings of  family guy consistently being higher.
tastes of tv viewers today are changing as i’m sure you can infer from the ratings of family guy consistently being higher.
king of the hills they are in season  13, the simpsons in this season they have 11 – 19 million of viewers, and  king of the hills in this season they have 3 – 6 million of viewers.
i’d rather see a longer episode, of course; and it seems like there are way too many of these kinda off-kilter variety and
cancel the simpsons is not good is the second more watched in the night in fox ”the cleveland show” i don’t think so much of this show the rating is gonna be like ”american dad!”.
reply trackbacks/pingbacks.
the truth is, there’s nothing wrong with the show.
the poll show far shows that slightly more people do actually like these  episodes, but when you consider that the people voting are the devoted fans who  will watch regardless of quality (because they come to a simpsons site every  week), i think there is some substance to the fact that this storytelling  episode was, certainly not the only factor, but one of the factors influencing  the figures.
fox has done a horrendous job promoting the simpsons (essentially hyping it  to the moon when it didn’t need hype and switching to hyping family guy  – which i find unfunny and essentially unwatchable.)
reply derek 11 may 2009 at 2:06 pm # all this indicates is that the average simpsons viewer doesn’t even  come close to appreciating the subtle philosophical, historical, and political  nuances that these storytelling episodes ooze with.
i’m with unpossible here, he makes a good point.
but the thing is they need to bring out something new, give the series a revamp.
let’s keep this  show going as long as we can by promoting the greatness that it is.
this is a simpsons blog, promote the  show don’t denigrate it with your personal ratings driven bs commentary,  write about the episode the highlights, promote the show promote the greatness  that it continues to be.
i suggest sitting back and enjoying every remaining episode.
but the thing is they need to  bring out something new, give the series a revamp.
it was better than  “wedding for disaster” which was i think “the worst episode  ever”…lol but seriously 20th season hasn’t come even  close to say what the previous seasons were!
bet fox are chopping the axe.
family guy is moreless in season 7, the simpsons have much rating they have 16 – 23 million of viewers, and family guy has 6 – 10 million of viewers.
i think this careless approach to the simpsons universe is what makes a lot of the most recent episodes unsuccessful.
the first nine seasons had over 14 million viewers each week.
today’s viewer would rather watch a  23 minute episode of random disconnected allusions to 80s movies and extended  scenes of people falling down and aching over their pain for way too long.
i don’t want it to ever end; i want it to be, in length terms, the snl of fox (not madtv!).
they will run out of ideas?
i’m just spitballing here.
the ratings have spoken, now's your chance.
so i’ve probably watched half of  this current season mondays on the internet.
revenge is a dish best served 3 times in 2007 delivered a season low in january with 8 million (before a large slump in april).
we are almost secret country in south-eastern europe, and rates like 5, 6 and 7 millions are almost impossible to imagine, but when we are talking about country with population about 300 million, number of 5 or 6 millions isn’t that big, in fact, it’s insignificant…reply dude, i think you’re a little harsh on this and all the story telling episodes.
i have been a fan of the simpsons since i was 5, and still try to stay loyal to the show – but even i have come to admit that most episodes really suck!
ratings may be down but don’t for a second consider that to indicate that people didn’t want to tune in because it was a story episode.
they have of  rating 1 – 5 million of viewers in season 1!,
so don’t worry about  ”the simpsons”.
i’m not a big fan of the fantasy-story episodes or even the treehouse of horror episodes (personal taste).
reply brett 12 may 2009 at 2:00 pm # “axe the simpsons”?
i think  this season has been very entertaining, not slapstick funny but sophisticated.
reply “axe the simpsons”?
hey, maybe it’s time for a new executive producer?
this guy is unpredictable, and says the funniest things.
or more specifically, “roy”)
reply ratings are starting to mean less now that there are internet downloads.
there’s also the fact that while its ratings are down, fox has nothing to replace it with — king of the hill is gone after this season, american dad always falls behind the simpsons in the ratings (even on low-rated episodes like this one) and sit down shut up is pretty much dead on arrival.
the first is obvious: show’s ratings are down so low that it’s time to start packing it in.
but i dont think it will be the end of the show by any means.
i havn’t seen any episodes on season 20, but i love all the seasons that i’ve seen anyway (especially the godlen era: season 3 – 12) but so far, i think season 15 is the worst, however, i do love it.
do a search on all of these ‘trilogy’ episodes here at simpsons channel and our ratings reports seem to always mention ‘low’.
because in season 20 they have 5 – 11 million of viewers.
i would rather see the simpsons axed then see them lower their standards to imitate family
p.s. i did love the references to disney’s snow white & 7 dwarves!
what i don’t get is why all the actually good episodes get bad reviews from critics and why all the episodes that suck ballz are considered “excellent” to the critics.
you can start to  worry once king of the hill, and american dad get canceled, since they have  lower ratings most of the time.
there’s also  the fact that while its ratings are down, fox has nothing to replace it with  — king of the hill is gone after this season, american dad always falls  behind the simpsons in the ratings (even on low-rated episodes like this one)  and sit down shut up is pretty much dead on arrival.
thank you for participating.
i’m not  interested in family-guy-type shows that gets most of its laughs from sexually  awkward punchlines and randomness.
from the comments on this post: if i hadn’t learned to  try to enjoy every remaining episode this site would have been dead in [...] “simpsons tall tales” makes baby jesus cry « dead homer  society - 24.
doesn’t matter how good the episode is, 5.1 is diabolical.
gopher 11 may 2009 at 1:02 pm # not really surprised.
king of the hill had 4.10 million viewers and american dad 4.95 million, which, compared to the simpsons at 8:00 in a more accessible timeslot is actually impressive.
just look at all the years they have been making episodes for those  fans.
reply nicolas 13 may 2009 at 8:57 am # jeff@ it would be really great if the simpsons could make more then 10  millions in premiere season, but i think it’s more likely that number  will be around 8 millions… it’s very important that first  episodes of new season get high rates just to show people from fox that  simpsons got what to offer to viewers and that viewers like it!
maggie’s first full oratory, beautifully executed by jodie foster, was another example of the simpson’s tongue-in-cheek, philosophical approach at getting the point across.
many of them are very predictable.
i also think that there should be more ralph.
some extremist measures there and maybe i’m going ott here, but might  have to be done.
if i hadn’t  learned to try to enjoy every remaining episode this site would have been dead  in the water long ago, but when we get one of these episodes churned out year  after year, i, personally, am not interested.
now look at their movie.
remember that we still have to see the episodes written by dan  castellaneta, and seth rogen season 20 is not a bad season.
or maybe  it is that you are a really big fan, and instead you just hate the idea of  having the show canceled?
the show needs to  be canceled for it’s own good.
the simpsons have 29  – 35 million of viewers.
i’m glad the ratings for the simpsons has dropped.
so i think ”worry more about american dad!, and sit down, shut up of the cancellation” i don’t said ”king of the hills” because is canceled so ”the simpsons” is gonna be for more years because fox is famous for simpsons in the beginning.
i’d just like to say that the ratings were very bad for this episode – it’s a shame.
i hope season 20 is a follow-on haha.
maybe the simpsons could have been gone a long time  ago, we got to thank us folk love it
reply nicolas 17 may 2009 at 4:41 am # @dick-
people actually hate ’storytelling’ episodes…how can they?
reply chris 11 may 2009 at 1:37 pm #
maggie is also awesome when she tries to hurt homer.
so did they hype it at all or was it another missed opportunity for the fox marketing machine?
the simpsons should take this back, because unlike stevie, maggie does not fail when hurting homer.
the comments section is for people like you to disagree.
remember that we still have to see the episodes written by dan castellaneta, and seth rogen season 20 is not a bad season.
reply well the 20th season has been really boring as such.this episode was actually better than some of the previous ones.
i think that this episode was great!
the stories are the best!
might be more of a helpful benefactor in the terms of the new age of technology and the 21st century.
i hate these type of episodes and like you said they don’t go with the story.
it will take a lot more than  bad ratings for the simpsons to get canceled.
family guy is moreless in season 7, the simpsons have much rating they have 16  – 23 million of viewers, and family guy has 6 – 10 million of  viewers.
adam, i was wondering in this case, if it would be possible to find out the  hulu ratings as well and compare it?
so i think  ”worry more about american dad!, and sit down, shut up of the  cancellation” i don’t said ”king of the hills” because  is canceled so ”the simpsons” is gonna be for more years because  fox is famous for simpsons in the beginning.
it’s a shame though, i  laughed alot throughout the newest episode and a less funny episode of family  guy beat it in the ratings.
we are almost secret country in south-eastern europe, and rates  like 5, 6 and 7 millions are almost impossible to imagine, but when we are  talking about country with population about 300 million, number of 5 or 6  millions isn’t that big, in fact, it’s insignificant… reply moemarszyslak 12 may 2009 at 12:24 pm # dude, i think you’re a little harsh on this and all the story telling  episodes.
adam, i was wondering in this case, if it would be possible to find out the hulu ratings as well and compare it?
tv shows aren’t meant to save the world for you, you are.
i actually really like the “storytelling”  episodes alot.
i think next year the premiere will get around 8 million viewers and it  settle in around their for the first half of next year.
and they will keep betting on them reply rmcc(portugal) 12 may 2009 at 3:49 pm #
hopefully they won’t make  another one like this for a long timeeeeeee!!!!
reply hulu is probably a little responsible for lower t.v. ratings.
and how many people have it pvr’d or tivo’d as well?
or more specifically, “roy”)reply since the movie, the show has been getting a lot better again.
i havn’t seen this episode yet because i live in england and as far as i know, it hasn’t been aired here yet.
as far as cancellation goes, there’s two schools of thought there.
actually i agree with unpossible on everything here, he speaks good words.
no… the only reason why this show  will stop are viewers: if they don’t want to see new episodes- there wont  be new episodes.
i think season 20 has done a lot of improvements.
reply gaulty 12 may 2009 at 4:27 pm # i’m with unpossible here, he makes a good point.
and you can’t judge an episode on it’s  ratings, you can only judge the previous week’s episode; that’s why  people decide to come back or not.
reply i think this rating is bad but not very bad like american dad!,
reply matthew 18 may 2009 at 3:44 pm # i’m glad the ratings for the simpsons has dropped.
hope that someway they will not ban the storytelling ep-they are fantastic!!!
that’s the main reason the simpsons is still around.
i’m not interested in family-guy-type shows that gets most of its laughs from sexually awkward punchlines and randomness.
so did they  hype it at all or was it another missed opportunity for the fox marketing  machine?
you can start to worry once king of the hill, and american dad get canceled, since they have lower ratings most of the time.
the simpsons side is  doing everything, theme parks, new games etc.
fox has done a horrendous job promoting the simpsons (essentially hyping it to the moon when it didn’t need hype and switching to hyping family guy – which i find unfunny and essentially unwatchable.)
they have made it for the public in general.
thats considered bad ratings for a popular show in the uk.
they make fox way too much money.
family guy had 6.47 million viewers at 9:00, keeping it as the number one performer for fox on sunday nights.
let it be known that within minutes after each episode i was on the internet expressing my disaproval.
you don’t tune into the simpsons to get what you want much like  going to a concert you go or watch to get what they grace you with.
reply eximius 16 may 2009 at 4:56 am #
reply ashley 11 may 2009 at 1:34 pm # i liked this episode but these ratings are just really really really  appauling.
i laughed the whole time,i think it was a great epesode.
wouldn’t it be cool if they made “22 short films  about springfield part 2″?
the first is obvious: show’s ratings are down so low that it’s time  to start packing it in.
plan b is to move it off fox and get it onto another network, the change might make new viewers as people who say hate fox might be willing to watch it on the new channel.
reply rmcc(portugal) 12 may 2009 at 3:41 pm # i think that this episode was great!
i hope season 20  is a follow-on haha.
while i’m sure the writers are trying to find fresh ways to make new episodes, i still enjoy watching the classic simpsons episodes which had a great balance of humour, storytelling and heart.
it still probably is still a big boost for fox.
this guy is  unpredictable, and says the funniest things.
i hate these type of episodes and like you said they don’t go  with the story.
i find that these episodes purposely go beyond  the simpsons universe and make them uncomfortable for me to watch… the  writers seem to show less care in storytelling, and you sit in fear of what is  going to happen to your favourite simpsons characters next.
aug, 2009 [...]  even the awesome and indefatigable adam at simpsons channel  thinks so.
reply all this indicates is that the average simpsons viewer doesn’t even come close to appreciating the subtle philosophical, historical, and political nuances that these storytelling episodes ooze with.
i’ve always thought the reason for this is that there are no [...] leave a reply click here to cancel reply.
i have been a fan of the simpsons since i  was 5, and still try to stay loyal to the show – but even i have come to  admit that most episodes really suck!
but they addressed that in the music… a  classic… reply pokenirvash 11 may 2009 at 5:11 pm # sure, season 20 may be a sucky season (alaska nebraska can go jump of a  cliff for all i care), but four great woman and a manicure is the best episode  this season, alongside the burns and the bees and how the test was won.
spice it up some way or  another.
this was no  exception.
a total of 5.16 million viewers watched last night’s episode ‘four great women and a manicure’, making it the least-watched episode of all time.
also,it seems like fox does no advertisment for the show now, its usually a family guy commercial with a quick quip, of the simpsons being at 8/9c (at least from a canadian’s point of view)
the very term ‘blog’ refers to personal opinions and commentary.
oct, 2009 [...] even by people who think zombie simpsons doesn’t suck (check  out the ratings, poll, and comments here if you don’t believe me).
reply dick 17 may 2009 at 1:55 am # i dont think fox will ever cancel the simpsons.
no… the only reason why this show will stop are viewers: if they don’t want to see new episodes- there wont be new episodes.
the 20 season is okey with its ups and  downs,but still…maybe some people cant understand new stuff-like maggie  talking,hibbert laughing till death…just cannot belive it.really,i  dont… its hard for me because i am a huge fan(i beg u keep running!!)
perhaps at the extremist length skip a year to recoup the  ideas, lets be fair, these guys have been working pretty much non-stop for 20  years now with a movie, games and so forth being released as well.
it’s still  consistently the second-highest rated show on a night where fox is having  trouble introducing new content.
people now days are less  inclined to think about what they watch.
it’s the quality of the previous episode(s) that influences the ratings for a given episode.
while i’m sure the writers are trying to find fresh  ways to make new episodes, i still enjoy watching the classic simpsons episodes  which had a great balance of humour, storytelling and heart.
tv might not be the best way to give ratings any more.
5/5 reply dohmer 11 may 2009 at 9:39 pm # fox already renewed it for two more seasons.
reply the radioactive 12 may 2009 at 2:33 am # well the 20th season has been really boring as such.this episode was  actually better than some of the previous ones.
i remember when baby maggie had her first word all those years back, it was a  huge deal; fox hyped it like crazy.
reply nick-tick-97 11 may 2009 at 2:06 pm # omg!
the very term ‘blog’ refers to personal opinions and  commentary.
this is something family guy stole from them, and it has worked awesome.
because in season 20 they have 5 – 11 million  of viewers.
i’m with valhum, this season reminded me a lot of older seasons too, a great thing to see!
reply francisco97 12 may 2009 at 5:33 pm # i think this rating is bad but not very bad like american dad!,
maybe what they need is just to forget a bit about the simpsons, and  have them back once they miss them.
also most of them are boring.
tis a shame, but you cant go on with ratings  like that forever, someones gotta buck there ideas up.
reply tayloreh 20 june 2009 at 8:25 pm # since the movie, the show has been getting a lot better again.
what i don’t get is why all the actually good episodes get bad  reviews from critics and why all the episodes that suck ballz are considered  “excellent” to the critics.
and they will keep betting on them
try sir francis drake guys, this episode made me cringe it was so inaccuratereply i don’t enjoy clip shows that much because the stories go by to fast and i’ve been feeling like the material is too rushed on full length episodes.
i find that these episodes purposely go beyond the simpsons universe and make them uncomfortable for me to watch… the writers seem to show less care in storytelling, and you sit in fear of what is going to happen to your favourite simpsons characters next.
eximius, king of the hill.
plan b is to move it off fox and get it onto another network, the change  might make new viewers as people who say hate fox might be willing to watch it  on the new channel.
with the simpsons is just that the general public are getting tired of 20 years.
this seems like it should have been another “event” episode, even if it was a fantasy sequence.
however, i have found some of the episodes in this series to be very good, namely “how the test was one” and “the good, the sad and the drugly”.
it sucked since the eleventh season, and ratings prove it.
family guy also did storytelling last night (stephen king) and i liked it  even less actually.
reply jeff@ it would be really great if the simpsons could make more then 10 millions in premiere season, but i think it’s more likely that number will be around 8 millions… it’s very important that first episodes of new season get high rates just to show people from fox that simpsons got what to offer to viewers and that viewers like it!
even the awesome and indefatigable adam at simpsons channel thinks so.
this website, it's owners, and any content on this site is not authorized by fox.
the poll show far shows that slightly more people do actually like these episodes, but when you consider that the people voting are the devoted fans who will watch regardless of quality (because they come to a simpsons site every week), i think there is some substance to the fact that this storytelling episode was, certainly not the only factor, but one of the factors influencing the figures.
the show needs to be canceled for it’s own good.
i hope the  simpsons doesn’t hit that low.
do a search on all of these ‘trilogy’ episodes here at  simpsons channel and our ratings reports seem to always mention  ‘low’.
so don’t worry about ”the simpsons”.
and screw all this obsession over ‘is it still  good’.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
it sucked since the eleventh season, and  ratings prove it.
and if i  want to denigrate the show for the sake of creating good discussion i’ll  do it.
it’s funny how such a smart and successful show can be lost on such  an obviously obtuse viewership.
the simpsons are the jimi hendrix of tv shows, there aren’t off shows just ones that appeal to differing viewers.
but back to my point, given that audiences can’t know if a given  episode will be strong or weak on any given night, it’s the quality (or  lack thereof) of the preceding episodes that is reflected in the ratings.
it’s still consistently the second-highest rated show on a night where fox is having trouble introducing new content.
wouldn’t it be cool if they made “22 short films about springfield part 2″?
you say little country like portugal, what should i say  about serbia?
you don’t tune into the simpsons to get what you want much like going to a concert you go or watch to get what they grace you with.
we’re also running an additional poll this week, where you can have your say on these types of episodes.
revenge is a dish best served 3 times in 2007  delivered a season low in january with 8 million (before a large slump in  april).
i mean where is the main rock star of the show.
it seems you have lost your faith in the simpsons.
reply valhum 11 may 2009 at 2:14 pm # it sucks that they been getting these poor ratings and i have to disagree  gopher, imo this season has had some sort in revival with some episodes being  hilarious to a point that it reminds me of the good old days hehe.
i’ve always thought the reason for this is that there are no [...]
might be more of a helpful benefactor in  the terms of the new age of technology and the 21st century.
with the simpsons is just that the general public are getting tired of 20  years.
reply khan 18 june 2009 at 10:01 pm #
but there’s the other side of the coin, which  considers the fact that the show is still making fox a lot of money from  merchandise and tie-ins.
maybe 5 years from now, but  even though the show isn’t the astronomical ratings juggernaut that it  once was.
if you have a great episode (and i think this was by far the absolute best  episode these last couple seasons) and it follows a lackluster episode,  you’ll have low ratings.
p.s. i did love the references to disney’s snow white & 7 dwarves!reply it was kind of good, but they need more ideas.
guyreply i think next year the premiere will get around 8 million viewers and it settle in around their for the first half of next year.
(so yes, the solution is poochie.
be the advocate for the simpsons you wanted to be when you  started and leave the mother f&*(#^% to the critics.
well,you shouldn’t judge the episode by it viewer,because like i,i’m not gonna take my time and wait for sunday,i would properly busy and do some other work,i know there are many infact a fan of simpson but don’t have the hours for it.
although i still love the simpsons and will watch them until they are cancelled i think the quality has gone down because the writers now have to appeal to the slack jawed yokels like the family guy fans who want senseless entertainment with no thought or subtle humor.
what in the world will disney do???
for the record, the wettest stories ever told (another storytelling  episode), back in 2006, had 7.04 million viewers which, at the time, was the  second lowest audience on record.
it will take a lot more than bad ratings for the simpsons to get canceled.
i think it was marge and lisa.
i would rather see the simpsons axed  then see them lower their standards to imitate family guy reply jeff 12 may 2009 at 10:55 pm #
they have of rating 1 – 5 million of viewers in season 1!,
reply tim 14 may 2009 at 9:21 am # i must admit that i didn’t enjoy this episode so much.
people now days are less inclined to think about what they watch.
this was no exception.
doesn’t matter how good the episode is, 5.1  is diabolical.
that doesn’t mean i was lying about my opinion.
they are probably as unpopular as clipshows (which sometimes have their moments).
the show  rocks regardless of the ratings, don’t let the data drive your posts but  rather inform them.
it’s a shame though, i laughed alot throughout the newest episode and a less funny episode of family guy beat it in the ratings.
it just pisses me the f*ck off!
rate the episode below, and try not to give it an ‘excellent’ grade just because simpsons r da kewlest.
reply that is true, this is a simpsons blog.
maybe what they need is just to forget a bit about the simpsons, and have them back once they miss them.
reply i disagree with the idea that the quality of a given episode is responsible for its ratings.
50 responses to “ratings: four great women and another all time  low!”
anyone can write that garbage.
i’m just  spitballing here.
they make fox way too much  money.
after that it could do  this.
reply derek i love you man, sir walter raleigh defating the spanish armada?!
maybe the simpsons could have been gone a long time ago, we got to thank us folk love it
reply joe 12 may 2009 at 6:17 pm # derek i love you man, sir walter raleigh defating the spanish armada?!
i said i loved it but without bart… … maybe in season 21  they will put maggie talking more times… reply williaint 12 may 2009 at 4:02 pm #
reply diogo 11 may 2009 at 7:45 pm # i’m from portugal, a very small country in europ, 5,16 is almost half  of our population, so… reply unpossible 11 may 2009 at 8:09 pm # i’m not in the us, so i didn’t see the advertising for this ep,  but did they hype the fact that adult maggie was finally going to speak at all?
reply dick 12 may 2009 at 12:31 am # hulu is probably a little responsible for lower t.v. ratings.
but there’s the other side of the coin, which considers the fact that the show is still making fox a lot of money from merchandise and tie-ins.
not to mention they create such an inconsistent number of episodes i’m surprised they’re even that high.
but i think that ratings of the simpsons don’t matter for fox because all countrys of the world love them
reply didn’t think it was that bad, but i’m not too surprised at the ratings.
tis a shame, but you cant go on with ratings like that forever, someones gotta buck there ideas up.
if i hadn’t learned to try to enjoy every remaining episode this site would have been dead in the water long ago, but when we get one of these episodes churned out year after year, i, personally, am not interested.
reply koyathehuntress 11 may 2009 at 2:57 pm # i liked this episode and i also like the “storytelling”  episodes.
it sucks that they been getting these poor ratings and i have to disagree gopher, imo this season has had some sort in revival with some episodes being hilarious to a point that it reminds me of the good old days hehe.
so i’ve probably watched half of this current season mondays on the internet.
reply i totally disagree.
i’m not  a big fan of the fantasy-story episodes or even the treehouse of horror  episodes (personal taste).
by fan i mean geeks who are totally  into it.
if they did them twice a year… one the treehouse of horrors, and  another, something else, i think it would be fine… i don’t think it was just the ‘trilogy’…
for the record, the wettest stories ever told (another storytelling episode), back in 2006, had 7.04 million viewers which, at the time, was the second lowest audience on record.
i  don’t want it to ever end; i want it to be, in length terms, the snl of  fox (not madtv!).
however, i have found some of the episodes in this series to be very good,  namely “how the test was one” and “the good, the sad and the  drugly”.
reply nicolas 12 may 2009 at 12:23 pm # @ diogo-
reply simpsons episode 2 september 2009 at 10:24 pm # true
it is my simpsons blog.
with such a big gap, last night’s episode is sure to remain the lowest figures for quite a while, but we’ve been surprised before.
reply tommy 16 may 2009 at 12:22 am # it was kind of good, but they need more ideas.
i actually really like the “storytelling” episodes alot.
i’m  never really home sundays at 8pm anymore
or maybe it is that you are a really big fan, and instead you just hate the idea of having the show canceled?reply
they are probably as unpopular as clipshows (which  sometimes have their moments).
not to mention they create such an inconsistent number of episodes  i’m surprised they’re even that high.
reply cant belive it!
i hope this weeks season finale can attract more viewers.
reply the takoff on snow white was so funny i fell off my couch!
season 20 has been, without a doubt, the worst season  ever.
i think  it was marge and lisa.
the fact the  simpsons may still be running is fox or generating a huge income from the  merch, the dvd’s etc.
copyright © 1997 - 2010 simpsons channel.
i dont think fox will ever cancel the simpsons.
try sir francis drake guys, this episode made  me cringe it was so inaccurate reply tyler 12 may 2009 at 8:37 pm # i don’t enjoy clip shows that much because the stories go by to fast  and i’ve been feeling like the material is too rushed on full length  episodes.
hopefully they won’t make another one like this for a long timeeeeeee!!!!reply [...]
let’s keep this show going as long as we can by promoting the greatness that it is.
after that, it dropped to 8 million and below.
this is a simpsons blog, promote the show don’t denigrate it with your personal ratings driven bs commentary, write about the episode the highlights, promote the show promote the greatness that it continues to be.
and screw all this obsession over ‘is it still good’.
that’s the main reason the simpsons is still  around.
the show would be doing itself a favor in dropping these episodes entirely and having the season cut short one episode.
the  simpsons remain one of the best written shows on tv their writers continue to  do justice to a 20 year old brand, no small accomplishment.
lol what that tells me is that average simpson fan/writer doesnt know the first thing about history or culture.