premise: family guy is an animated comedy that centers around peter griffin and his griffin family, who live in quahog, rhode island.
later, adult swim began airing re-runs.
- more about family guy characters creators: seth macfarlane created family guy.
plus seth macfarlane and many of the cast members have performed infamily  guy live!.
a part of the new york times company.
famliy guy pictures premise: family guy is an animated comedy that centers around  peter griffin and his griffin family, who live in quahog, rhode island.
by nancy basile, about.com guide see more about: - family guy episode guide - family guy characters - family guy 'family guy' twentieth century fox premiere and cancellation: family guy premiered on january 31, 1999.
readers respond: best 'family guy' episodes read responses (1) share your favorite more 'family guy' - characters - top 10 episodes - trivia quiz more show guides related articles - 'south park' - 'the simpsons' - 'the cleveland show' - "family guy" vol.
sign up - animated tv - now playing - classic cartoons - trivia & quotes discuss in my forum 'family guy' profile
family guy premiered on january 31,  1999.
13-year-old chris is a socially awkward teen who doesn't have a clue about the opposite sex.
with high ratings on adult swim, and brisk sales of the dvds, fox brought the show back onto the sunday night schedule in 2005.
or is it just that i've become accustomed to the style of humor and animation?
4 dvd nancy basile animated tv guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches family guy episode guides seth macfarlane famliy guy pictures pop culture references brow humor family guy episode explore animated tv must reads most popular - top 50 cartoon characters - cartoon picture galleries - cartoon trivia quizzes - free online cartoon games - upcoming animated tv dvds see more about: - top 50 cartoon characters - top 10 'south park' episodes - 'the simpsons' top 20 episodes - family guy trivia quiz - watch cartoons free online
rounding out the griffin  household is brian, the family dog, who has a penchant for dry martinis and  dumb blondes.
- family guy episode guides characters: peter griffin is the endearingly ignorant father.
13-year-old chris is a socially awkward teen who doesn't have a clue about the  opposite sex.
with  high ratings on adult swim, and brisk sales of the dvds, fox brought the show  back onto the sunday night schedule in 2005.
likefuturama, family guy originally aired on fox.
but the humor was much more adult-oriented.
the  show features boundless cutaway scenes with pop culture references and makes  fun of everyone from luke perry to kiss.
plus seth macfarlane and many of the cast members have performed infamily guy live!.
the set-up was the same asthe  simpsons, a family-centered, sitcom-like comedy.
the set-up was the same asthe simpsons, a family-centered, sitcom-like comedy.
my mouth dropped open more than once at some of the racier  innuendos or spot-on parodies of pop culture moments.
readers respond: best 'family guy' episodes read  responses  (1) share your favorite more 'family guy'
he cut his teeth in animation oncow and chicken, johnny bravo and dexter's laboratory.
family guy episode guides characters: peter griffin is the endearingly ignorant father.
regardless, family guy is a forerunner of other cartoons who mercilessly skewer our pop culture and present rude jokes on mainstream television.
after family guy, he created american dad andthe cleveland show.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
lois  is peter's wife, a stay at home mom with no patience for her family's antics.
1 dvd - dvd review of family guy vol.
rounding out the griffin household is brian, the family dog, who has a penchant for dry martinis and dumb blondes.
1 - family guy vol. 5 dvd - "family guy" christmas train - family guy vol.
the success of the show has spawned straight-to-dvd episodes, including a parody of thestar wars trilogy beginning with "blue harvest".
by category - family guy episode guide - family guy characters - family guy - shows a - z - family guy - the simpsons - south park - adult swim - futurama - robot chicken - download video clips - picture gallery - download sounds - dvd and video reviews - episode guides animated tv - about.com - entertainment - animated tv - family guy - family guy profile - a show guide for family guy - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
but the humor was much  more adult-oriented.
- seth macfarlane bio - pictures of seth macfarlane my two cents: i became of fan of family guy during the very first episode, "death has a shadow."
my mouth dropped open more than once at some of the racier innuendos or spot-on parodies of pop culture moments.
is it the decreased involvement of seth macfarlane, due to his other projects?
the success of the show has spawned straight-to-dvd episodes, including a  parody of thestar wars trilogy beginning with "blue harvest".
- about.com - entertainment - animated tv animated tv search free animated tv newsletter!
after fox  moved the show around to various timeslots, thefamily guy drew low  ratings and was cancelled in 2002.
lois is peter's wife, a stay at home mom with no patience for her family's antics.
3 dvd - family guy vol.
twentieth century fox premiere and cancellation:
stewie is a diabolically clever baby.
regardless, family guy is a forerunner of other cartoons who  mercilessly skewer our pop culture and present rude jokes on mainstream  television.
he cut his  teeth in animation oncow and chicken, johnny bravo and dexter's laboratory.
more about family guy characters creators: seth macfarlane created family guy.
bio pictures of seth macfarlane my two cents: i became of fan of family guy during the very  first episode, "death has a shadow."
i still enjoy the show, but i'm no longer as shocked or entertained by it.
he performs the voices of peter, stewie and  brian.
after fox moved the show around to various timeslots, thefamily guy drew low ratings and was cancelled in 2002.
17-year-old meg is a social outcast and the griffin family punching bag.
he performs the voices of peter, stewie and brian.
the show features boundless cutaway scenes with pop culture references and makes fun of everyone from luke perry to kiss.