part  1” ... throw in one of the best “treehouse of horror”  episodes (which features my favorite halloween segment, wherein homer keeps  going back in time and changing the future), and we’ve found our champion.
has any other show invented multiple words put into the  dictionary, delivered a hit movie, offered more quotable lines than every movie  you saw in college combined, been more recognizable or made more money?
but who would  voice “poochie,” the “kung-fu hippie from gangsta  city?
to compare the situation to another medium, the show is like the quentin tarantino to fox’s miramax.
the free event is planned to raise awareness about the value of  horses to the community.
“last exit to springfield” — widely regarded as one of the best “simpsons” episodes for a reason, “last exit to springfield” sees the show firing on all cylinders.
“bart the lover” — an old, overlooked gem.
every player had his own quirks while the family remained at center stage, which made this episode among the fullest the series has ever produced.
“south  park” has certainly surpassed “the simpsons” at this point,  by a fairly wide margin.
it’s an unfortunate belief to begin with, but that’s definitely changed.
the show’s 20th season starts sunday (8 p.m. fox), with the season  premiere featuring homer simpson and ned flanders as bounty hunters.
the native asked in a stupor, having just been introduced to blackjack and christianity by homer.
march 21, 2012 1 photo
night & day’s  “simpsons” buffs, phil dzikiy and paul lane, go through some of  their bests – and worsts — from the series here.
secondary characters are vital to “the simpsons,” moreso than  any other show.
if we’re going for funniest quote, i’ll nominate the drunken native homer was sent to help save when he became a missionary to avoid the ruthless people and puppets of pbs.
when discussing  some of the more important tools for leading their organization — be it a  business, a non-profit, a government agency, or even their household — i  always mention that they need to read a newspaper (or a few newspapers) every  day.
the free event is planned to raise awareness about the value of horses to the community.
one of the sweetest episodes  for sure, and of course, very funny.
old guy, youthful outlook seneca president weighs in on casino cash issue glynn:
especially in an era where new shows are aired for the first time with their heads already fastened into the guillotine, there’s no series that ever again will pull this off.
constantly making random references that half of  the audience doesn’t get?
il unveiled police: 2 suspects arrested  in oklahoma shooting seasonal content opinion confer: do yourself a favor — read newspapers quite often i speak to large groups — like leadership niagara or  students at suny brockport — about leadership skills.
“the itchy and scratchy and poochie show” — aired near the end of the series’ first decade on the air, this episode did a fantastic of poking fun at itself while not being preachy.
march 21, 2012 1 photo plates & pasta v offers a taste of art oftentimes when dining out, you leave with nothing more than a full  stomach.
just how wide-reaching is it?
kent brockman interviews homer simpson on "smartline."
stepping outside of animation, any show without a laugh track owes some debt to “the simpsons,” as do shows with quick-paced fantasy sequences.
“ladies and gentlemen, uh, we’ve just lost the picture, but what we’ve seen speaks for itself.
there’s also the animation factor, of course — in real life, homer would belong to the aarp, lisa would be a doctor and maggie would be months from her college graduation.
photo © 2012 community newspaper holdings, inc. · cnhi classified advertising network · cnhi news service associated press content © 2012.
but my number one choice has to be  the incomparable milhouse van houten.
bart leads along his lonely teacher, edna krabappel, with fake love letters from “woodrow,” who is represented by a picture of nhl great gordie howe.
burns did just that, “hiring” nine major leaguers to play for the company softball team during the playoffs.
season 15’s  “the regina monologues,” which revolved around the simpsons taking  a trip to england.
events: there are several chances to catch up with easter bunny this weekend.
“family guy” has fooled millions.
if  we’re going for funniest quote, i’ll nominate the drunken native  homer was sent to help save when he became a missionary to avoid the ruthless  people and puppets of pbs.
it  also had one of the funniest “simpsons” moments ever —  poochie’s inevitable demise.
this episode also shows one of “the  simpsons’ ” main strengths — even secondary and peripheral  characters could carry a great episode.
this episode had plenty of laughs and showed that ralph was more than a one-line delivery device.
this episode had plenty of laughs and showed that  ralph was more than a one-line delivery device.
it’s difficult to tell from this vantage point whether they will consume the captive earth men or merely enslave them.
that’s what has embiggened “the simpsons” to the cromulent place the series holds in the world today.
homer + darryl strawberry x ken griffey’s grotesquely swollen jaw = funny.
i  couldn’t tell you why.
after all, the movie was pretty good.
while others may select ralph wiggum (too  one-note) or charles montgomery burns (certainly worthy), “the  ‘house” always wins.
on saturday, buffalo arts studio's fundraiser, plates & pasta v, at 2495 main st., suite 500, will not send you home empty-handed.
photo it was the succulent diver scallops verses the tender house-cured sliced duck with savory polenta when the area's top chefs showed off their best work tuesday night to promote the upcoming restaurant week in western new york.
“king of the hill” will never be mentioned at the zenith of animation, but i could make an argument that it belongs in the top three, as it’s been maddeningly consistent for more than a decade with its subtle southern charm.
q: has the show maintained its spark, power and wit?
out of all the bad “the simpsons are going to (insert  location)!”
he and the entire family end up on some island after the dog spews poisonous gas (don’t ask), where they end the episode in a blissful trance and chanting about the benefits of “the island.”
one thing is for certain: there is no stopping them; the ants will soon be here.
april 9, 2012 city beat:
i really hate yo-yos.”
as for greatness, there are really too many reasons to name, but  here’s a one-two punch: great characters and some of the best writing  television has ever seen.
two of the series’ worst flaws — the contrived trips to other countries and exceedingly shameless celebrity appearances — both rear their ugly heads in this terribly unfunny episode.
“king  of the hill” is always underrated, but if i had to pick a new episode to  watch, i’ll still take “the simpsons.”
“how can ace be 1 and 11?”
i would put at least eight seasons (three through 10) up against the seasons of any show.
night & day’s “simpsons” buffs, phil dzikiy and paul lane, go through some of their bests – and worsts — from the series here.
top five episodes phil: 1.
there isn’t another sitcom in tv history  that has maintained its greatness for so many years.
march 21, 2012 1 photo one night of queen in north tonawanda the historic riviera theatre presents “one night of queen”  performed by gary mullen & the works at 7 p.m. on sunday for one  performance only.
after he sees footage of ants floating around in the space shuttle.
huge  portrait of kim jong
it’ll be around forever.
when bart realizes his faux pas, he and his family gather to write a parting letter that will heal krabappel’s wounded heart.
whether the new shows that air sunday  nights or the reruns that are rivaled on syndication only by “law &  order,” everyone is at least familiar with it on a cursory level.
but a lot of people do, even those who i think (usually) have a good sense of humor.
“homie the clown” — realizing a lifelong dream after reading  a billboard, homer enrolled in clown college to become a krusty imitator.
“last exit to  springfield” — widely regarded as one of the best  “simpsons” episodes for a reason, “last exit to  springfield” sees the show firing on all cylinders.
i am really not sure why “the simpsons” has lasted.
why  did i have the bowl?”), and he’s a loyal best friend to bart.
the gruff bartender seems somewhat  underappreciated for the self-depreciating remarks he makes that are so  off-the-wall funny, and he is just all over the place — from violence to  compassion to apathy toward his customers’ well-being — which gives  him a lot of depth, a bit more than wiggum.
it was the succulent diver scallops verses the tender house-cured sliced  duck with savory polenta when the area's top chefs showed off their best work  tuesday night to promote the upcoming restaurant week in western new york.
march 22, 2012 1 photo lewiston-based band to release album later this year lewiston-based band mikanecho (pronounced mechanic-oh) is looking forward  to the release of its new album this year, which was performed, recorded and  produced entirely by the band.
whether the new shows that air sunday nights or the reruns that are rivaled on syndication only by “law & order,” everyone is at least familiar with it on a cursory level.
i have held some 10 jobs since graduating from college eight years ago; i can’t imagine having the desire to do the same thing for 20 years, but nearly everyone involved with this series has.
i could make a top 100 list.
march 21, 2012 1 photo oftentimes when dining out, you leave with nothing more than a full stomach.
march 21, 2012 1 photo the historic riviera theatre presents “one night of queen” performed by gary mullen & the works at 7 p.m. on sunday for one performance only.
all right, maybe it won’t be around forever, but it certainly feels that way.
and if the simpsons aren’t the  most recognizable fictional characters in the world, they have to be pretty  close.
his best moment might be when he tried to open a family restaurant, as his struggles to relate to children were triumphantly funny.
but my personal pick is newsman kent brockman’s famous jump to conclusions in “deep space homer” after he sees footage of ants floating around in the space shuttle.
after 30 years in the entertainment industry, many people would be willing to either coast on past triumphs or ease into retirement.
march 16, 2012 sting coming to artpark for june show former police frontman sting will be in town june 12 to play a show at  artpark’s mainstage theater.
perhaps its placement on fox — never known for having the highest standards — has something to do with that, but i’d like to think not.
without “the simpsons,” it would have been a tough road for “family guy,” “king of the hill,” “the critic” and (obviously) “futurama.”
q: how does the show  stack up to other sitcom greats?
there’s a generation of students now who don’t remember life  without the show (heck, i barely do).
sting was  good as himself when he tried to rescue from the well and danny devito was  great as homer’s half-brother herb powell, but i’d have to go with  adam west, who played a creepy version of himself in the “mr. plow”  episode, doing the “bat-usi” dance from his campy  “batman” series and appearing to have gone insane from the  experience.
constantly making random references that half of the audience doesn’t get?
— this  episode saw moe rip off a homemade drink of homer’s and turn it into a  multimillion dollar idea.
some of the ants were very close to the camera and appeared to be quite large.
the corvair spacecraft has apparently been taken over — ‘conquered,’ if you will — by a master race of giant space ants.
a great  character who i’d love to see again would be the evil genius, hank  scorpio (voiced impeccably by albert brooks).
his  backstory is nuanced and often sad (divorced parents), but his character  remains strong and underused (he’s great in a bigger role ...
sting was good as himself when he tried to rescue from the well and danny devito was great as homer’s half-brother herb powell, but i’d have to go with adam west, who played a creepy version of himself in the “mr. plow” episode, doing the “bat-usi” dance from his campy “batman” series and appearing to have gone insane from the experience.
stepping outside of animation, any show  without a laugh track owes some debt to “the simpsons,” as do shows  with quick-paced fantasy sequences.
homer is at his best when he’s a dimwitted but devoted father who means well, not when he’s the selfish jerk he’s written as in some later episodes.
one thing is for certain: there is no stopping them; the  ants will soon be here.
the bit with ian mckellen is especially  cringe-worthy.
“flaming moe’s” — this episode saw moe rip off a homemade drink of homer’s and turn it into a multimillion dollar idea.
“oh, i thought the generals were due!”
but a lot of people do, even those who i think (usually)  have a good sense of humor.
it’s one of the most hilariously  inspired moments in show history.
the show was  once both a marketing and ratings juggernaut for fox.
though the highs were probably higher in season seven, you can’t go wrong with the sixth season, which featured a steady stream of classic episodes: “bart of darkness,” “itchy and scratchy land,” “lisa on ice,” “homer badman,” “homer the great,” “two dozen and one greyhounds,” “lemon of troy,” “who shot mr. burns?
q: is there any way to sum up the cultural impact of “the simpsons?”
the worst thing right now, for me, is seeing a younger generation flock toward the detestable “family guy,” which could never hold a candle to any season of “the simpsons.”
sure, the paul and linda mccartney thing is a little forced at the end, but the character development and storytelling is perfect.
it’s absolutely the  most important show in the history of the network, so “the  simpsons” gets free reign, for the most part.
rather than just having a cultural impact,  “the simpsons” has become a part of life.
but for sheer silliness, i’ll take dr. colossus.
“he’s spinning the ball on his finger!
the same can’t be said of  “the simpsons,” but the series has rebounded in recent years with  many decent episodes and is still an “in place” for  hollywood’s elite to be featured as a guest star.
paul: “cheers” immediately comes to mind when i think of the best series ever.
the same can’t be said of “the simpsons,” but the series has rebounded in recent years with many decent episodes and is still an “in place” for hollywood’s elite to be featured as a guest star.
paul:  i initially thought of simpleton second-grader ralph wiggum, but the more i  pondered it the more i liked moe szyslak.
“homie the clown” — realizing a lifelong dream after reading a billboard, homer enrolled in clown college to become a krusty imitator.
the niagara gazette thu sep 25, 2008, 09:58 am edt by phil dzikiy and paul lane
the worst  thing right now, for me, is seeing a younger generation flock toward the  detestable “family guy,” which could never hold a candle to any  season of “the simpsons.”
the  show has remained quality for the vast majority of its 20 years on the air, and  it still posts solid, if not spectacular ratings.
and the propaganda film “meat and you: partners in freedom” is troy mcclure’s second-finest hour on the show.
the show’s 20th season starts sunday (8 p.m. fox), with the season premiere featuring homer simpson and ned flanders as bounty hunters.
the fourth annual water street landing disco fundraiser is set for 9 p.m. saturday at the 115 s. water st. facility.
there’s also the animation factor, of course — in real life, homer  would belong to the aarp, lisa would be a doctor and maggie would be months  from her college graduation.
before “the simpsons,” most people considered animation to be a child’s medium, especially on television.
it’s one of the most hilariously inspired moments in show history.
thankfully, none of them has lost any zeal for the job, which  is another part of this equation.
it’s an  unfortunate belief to begin with, but that’s definitely changed.
he and the entire  family end up on some island after the dog spews poisonous gas (don’t  ask), where they end the episode in a blissful trance and chanting about the  benefits of “the island.”
“lisa the  vegetarian” — equally hilarious, touching and satirical,  “lisa the vegetarian” is still probably my favorite episode after  all these years.
text  only | photo reprints got eggs?
i couldn’t tell you why.
aside from seeing homer in polka-dotted pants, this episode yielded  probably the best sequence ever: krusty’s betting against the harlem  globetrotters in a staged basketball game, then screaming at the television as  the generals lose.
thankfully, none of them has lost any zeal for the job, which is another part of this equation.
the writing and characters were that  good.
events: there are several chances to catch up with easter bunny this  weekend.
favorite season phil: upon further review, i think seasons  five through seven are the creamiest of the crop, but i’ll go with season  six in a narrow victory over season seven.
as for greatness, there are really too many reasons to name, but here’s a one-two punch: great characters and some of the best writing television has ever seen.
but who would voice “poochie,” the “kung-fu hippie from gangsta city?”
episodes, this one is the worst.
it appears “the  simpsons” is like the new coke.
photo restaurant week — delicious bargains for area diners
this is a tough call, but i’d have to go with  season four, which featured the excellent “mr. plow” and  “brother from the same planet” episodes as well as the sweetly  funny “lisa’s first word.”
part 1” ... throw in one of the best “treehouse of horror” episodes (which features my favorite halloween segment, wherein homer keeps going back in time and changing the future), and we’ve found our champion.
but for  sheer silliness, i’ll take dr. colossus.
i have held some 10 jobs since  graduating from college eight years ago; i can’t imagine having the  desire to do the same thing for 20 years, but nearly everyone involved with  this series has.
so, by all means, simpsons, don’t make us leave springfield anytime soon.
q: how does the show stack up to other sitcom greats?
that’s what has embiggened “the  simpsons” to the cromulent place the series holds in the world today.
i think there are people out there who use words like “d’oh!”
“the itchy & scratchy  & poochie show” — likely one of the most well-known  “simpsons” episodes, wherein new characters are inserted to the  “itchy and scratchy show” to fix sagging ratings.
why did i have the bowl?”), and he’s a loyal best friend to bart.
i would choo-choo-choose this  episode any day.
photo more night & day headlines house ads ap video drug testers confident ahead of olympics raw  video:
that being said, it’s still one of the better shows on television.
only problem was, the audience hated him.
“seinfeld” probably comes closest as far as recent shows go, but if i could only watch one sitcom for the rest of my life, “the simpsons” wins in a landslide.
april 9, 2012 events: there are several chances to catch up with easter bunny this weekend.
our site is powered by zope.
he’s written as in some later episodes.
contributed photo anonymous
on saturday, buffalo arts studio's fundraiser, plates & pasta  v, at 2495 main st., suite 500, will not send you home empty-handed.
everything’s coming up milhouse!
there are kids out there who actually think “the simpsons” isn’t funny, while “family guy” is the most hilarious thing they’ve ever seen.
when  bart realizes his faux pas, he and his family gather to write a parting letter  that will heal krabappel’s wounded heart.
the entrance  and exit of hipster housemate roy only added to the multiple layers of humor.
“what kind of god would allow that to happen?”
march 21, 2012 1 photo aquarium penguins have their days this weekend come celebrate with the peruvian penguins at the aquarium of niagara from  9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. saturday and sunday.
everyone involved wants “the simpsons” to be good, so it is.
who else but mr. burns could buy an all-star team?
have any other animated shows surpassed it?
“the  computer wore menace shoes,” during which homer was abducted by a secret  group after spreading too much gossip over the internet.
every player had his own quirks while the  family remained at center stage, which made this episode among the fullest the  series has ever produced.
judging by this episode, though, maybe it was time for him to go.
it’s difficult to  tell from this vantage point whether they will consume the captive earth men or  merely enslave them.
top it  all off with a classic family sing-along.
everyone involved wants “the  simpsons” to be good, so it is.
privacy policy | ap news registry privacy policy terms and conditions advertiser index niagara gazette 310 niagara street niagara falls, ny 14302
it’s like cloudy buffalo afternoons in march — always there.
“homer at the  bat” —
judging by this episode, though, maybe it was  time for him to go.
march 21, 2012 1 photo equifest: show for horse lovers on saturday march 18 equifest:
this leads to poor edna being stood up by her mystery man.
march 21, 2012 1 photo bill engvall’s just getting started after 30 years in the entertainment industry, many people would be willing  to either coast on past triumphs or ease into retirement.
if you  condensed the run of “the simpsons” into the time that  “cheers” aired, the quality would probably approach that of the  boston-based bar show.
i would put at least eight  seasons (three through 10) up against the seasons of any show.
top it all off with a classic family sing-along.
but my personal pick is newsman kent  brockman’s famous jump to conclusions in “deep space homer”
plus, you’ve got the  flanders family reunion and the visit to storytown village.
ap content may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
a great character who i’d love to see again would be the evil genius, hank scorpio (voiced impeccably by albert brooks).
that being said, it’s still one of the better shows on  television.
however, “south park” might just be the  best show on television now, so that’s not much of a slight.
the show was once both a marketing and ratings juggernaut for fox.
there’s a generation of students now who don’t remember life without the show (heck, i barely do).
favorite secondary character phil: how hard is this?
“i love lisa” — one of few episodes that centered around ralph wiggum, this show saw him develop a crush for lisa after she was the only one in class to give him a valentine’s day card.
why has “the simpsons” lasted so long, and what makes the show so great?
sadly, this was the last “simpsons” episode written by the great john swartzwelder, who may have been the best overall “simpsons” writer (and certainly the most prolific) throughout the show’s run.
a valid case could be made for any season from three through eight or nine, but i’ll give four the slight edge.
some parts of our site may require you todownload the flash player plugin.
march 16, 2012 former police frontman sting will be in town june 12 to play a show at artpark’s mainstage theater.
the show has remained quality for the vast majority of its 20 years on the air, and it still posts solid, if not spectacular ratings.
march 22, 2012 1 photo lewiston-based band mikanecho (pronounced mechanic-oh) is looking forward to the release of its new album this year, which was performed, recorded and produced entirely by the band.
“a fish called selma” — if you can’t laugh at a “planet of the apes” musical, called “stop the planet of the apes, i want to get off!”
and who better to say it than night & day’s resident “simpsons” experts, phil dzikiy and paul lane? question: 20 years is a long time.
close previous now showing:  of next previous next close kent brockman interviews homer simpson on "smartline."
“the simpsons,” it would have been a tough road for “family  guy,” “king of the hill,” “the critic” and  (obviously) “futurama.”
“the itchy and scratchy and poochie show” —  aired near the end of the series’ first decade on the air, this episode  did a fantastic of poking fun at itself while not being preachy.
god not knowing that the st. louis  cardinals nfl franchise had relocated was good for a few chuckles, as well, in  “homer the heretic.”
his backstory is nuanced and often sad (divorced parents), but his character remains strong and underused (he’s great in a bigger role ... watch “radioactive man” and “bart’s friend falls in love.”)
homer is at his best when he’s a dimwitted  but devoted father who means well, not when he’s the selfish jerk
to quote a classic homer line, “it’s funny because it’s true.”
the series can make biting commentary when it wants to — including about itself — but more often than not it’s merely meant to deliver a few chuckles, which many people don’t get enough of in life and desire more of.
“lisa the vegetarian” — equally hilarious, touching and satirical, “lisa the vegetarian” is still probably my favorite episode after all these years.
i initially thought of simpleton second-grader ralph wiggum, but the more i pondered it the more i liked moe szyslak.
when discussing some of the more important tools for leading their organization — be it a business, a non-profit, a government agency, or even their household — i always mention that they need to read a newspaper (or a few newspapers) every day.
photo disco making a comeback in lewiston on saturday
the fourth annual water street landing disco fundraiser is set for 9 p.m.  saturday at the 115 s. water st. facility.
has any other show invented multiple words put into the dictionary, delivered a hit movie, offered more quotable lines than every movie you saw in college combined, been more recognizable or made more money?
the entrance and exit of hipster housemate roy only added to the multiple layers of humor.
the writing and characters were that good.
i really hate  yo-yos.”
photo restaurant week — delicious bargains for area diners lewiston-based band to release album later this year twitter news
i would choo-choo-choose this episode any day.
the only other series i could put up there in terms of quality would be “seinfeld,” and even that series tailed off at the end with a much shorter run.
a close replication to the real thing, he accepts one too many of the perks usually afforded to krusty and becomes entrenched in the real clown’s mob affairs.
“the computer wore menace shoes,” during which homer was abducted by a secret group after spreading too much gossip over the internet.
there are kids out there who actually  think “the simpsons” isn’t funny, while “family  guy” is the most hilarious thing they’ve ever seen.
a valid case could be made for any season from  three through eight or nine, but i’ll give four the slight edge.
“a fish called  selma” — if you can’t laugh at a “planet of the  apes” musical, called “stop the planet of the apes, i want to get  off!”
paul: homer had a “demovitvational plaque” put  up at work after he quit but had to come back, so he used pictures of maggie to  spell out a different message on the sign — “do it for her.”
out of all the bad “the simpsons are going to (insert location)!”
no show has surpassed it, but “south park” could if it continues its upward trend; unlike “the simpsons,” “south park” has become far more clever as time has passed, with its double meanings and social commentary surrounded by some of the best writing on television.
favorite season phil: upon further review, i think seasons five through seven are the creamiest of the crop, but i’ll go with season six in a narrow victory over season seven.
rather, “the  simpsons” is like that comfortable shirt you won’t get rid of no  matter how much your spouse protests — it’s been there for you for  years, never fails to deliver and makes you feel just a tad better.
bart leads along his lonely teacher, edna krabappel, with fake love letters  from “woodrow,” who is represented by a picture of nhl
it didn’t have as long a run, but there wasn’t a single bad episode, nor one that was even really sub-par compared to the rest.
his best moment might be when he  tried to open a family restaurant, as his struggles to relate to children were  triumphantly funny.
favorite guest star/one-time character phil:
some of the  ants were very close to the camera and appeared to be quite large.
there's still time for little ones to find a few!
even “south park” would have a  tough time getting on the air of a cable network without the success of  “the simpsons.”
horrible, horrible writing.
favorite quote phil:
one of the sweetest episodes for sure, and of course, very funny.
the corvair  spacecraft has apparently been taken over — ‘conquered,’ if  you will — by a master race of giant space ants.
“king of the hill” is always underrated, but if i had to pick a new episode to watch, i’ll still take “the simpsons.”
it’s absolutely the most important show in the history of the network, so “the simpsons” gets free reign, for the most part.
the power plant goes  on strike and homer finds himself heading up the union, fighting for a new  contract with a dental plan.
while others may select ralph wiggum (too one-note) or charles montgomery burns (certainly worthy), “the ‘house” always wins.
rather than just having a cultural impact, “the simpsons” has become a part of life.
there isn’t another sitcom in tv history that has maintained its greatness for so many years.
it appears “the simpsons” is like the new coke.
to compare the situation to  another medium, the show is like the quentin tarantino to fox’s miramax.
“you don’t win friends  with salad!”
before “the simpsons,” most people considered  animation to be a child’s medium, especially on television.
it didn’t  have as long a run, but there wasn’t a single bad episode, nor one that  was even really sub-par compared to the rest.
march 21, 2012 1 photo equifest:
, “the simpsons” is like that comfortable shirt you won’t get rid of no matter how much your spouse protests — it’s been there for you for years, never fails to deliver and makes you feel just a tad better.
paul: “cheers”  immediately comes to mind when i think of the best series ever.
it could be again at some point with the right writers.
the show isn’t what it once was.
homer + darryl strawberry x ken griffey’s  grotesquely swollen jaw = funny.
contributed photo september 25, 2008 television: 20 years - a 'simpsons' extravaganza anonymous
and the  propaganda film “meat and you: partners in freedom” is troy  mcclure’s second-finest hour on the show.
this episode also shows one of “the simpsons’ ” main strengths — even secondary and peripheral characters could carry a great episode.
grand jury tulsa resident: "we  can't just hate one another" why gas prices spike in the  spring series of bomb threats at univ. of pittsburgh aol to sell over 800 patents to microsoft goodell  upholds penalties in saints bounty case raw video:
especially in an era where new shows are aired for the first time with their  heads already fastened into the guillotine, there’s no series that ever  again will pull this off.
photo quite often i speak to large groups — like leadership niagara or students at suny brockport — about leadership skills.
to quote a classic homer line, “it’s funny  because it’s true.”
one-dimensional characters?
that would be my pick.
even “south park” would have a tough time getting on the air of a cable network without the success of “the simpsons.”
i’d say yes to the first question, the show  just lacks in some of the richness that earlier seasons delivered, where three  plotlines in a single show would all feel like the best thing you’d seen  that entire year.
a picture of my daughter and me on my desk says the same thing.
poking fun at television and  “the simpsons” itself, this episode was a satirical high point.
a  close replication to the real thing, he accepts one too many of the perks  usually afforded to krusty and becomes entrenched in the real clown’s mob  affairs.
and “yoink!” who haven’t even seen  an episode of “the simpsons.”
so, by all means, simpsons, don’t make us leave springfield anytime  soon.
i think there are people out there who use words like  “d’oh!”
to revive dull  ratings on a long-running cartoon, the animators for “itchy and  scratchy” decided to bring on an “edgy” partner in poochie  the rockin’ dog.
and if the simpsons aren’t the most recognizable fictional characters in the world, they have to be pretty close.
no need to draw any stink lines here.
and as far as all-time guest  stars go, the nod goes to the late phil hartman and his many memorable  characters (troy mcclure, lionel hutz).
however, “south park” might just be the best show on television now, so that’s not much of a slight.
funnel clouds over oklahoma 911 calls recount horror,  panic from f-18 crash n.j. inventor builds world's 'worst'  alarm clock bernanke says fed working on regulatory failures ronnie wood talks art exhibit, rolling stones alaska's largest city sets new snow record autism may  be linked to obesity during pregnancy professor: link between  autism, mom's obesity facebook buying instagram for $1 billion 7th grader: bus driver making 'weird noise' man charged in large-scale 'sextortion' case trayvon martin  death won't go to fla.
to revive dull ratings on a long-running cartoon, the animators for “itchy and scratchy” decided to bring on an “edgy” partner in poochie the rockin’ dog.
“the itchy & scratchy & poochie show” — likely one of the most well-known “simpsons” episodes, wherein new characters are inserted to the “itchy and scratchy show” to fix sagging ratings.
“south park” has certainly surpassed “the simpsons” at this point, by a fairly wide margin.
i’d say yes to the first question, the show just lacks in some of the richness that earlier seasons delivered, where three plotlines in a single show would all feel like the best thing you’d seen that entire year.
no show has surpassed it, but “south  park” could if it continues its upward trend; unlike “the  simpsons,” “south park” has become far more clever as time  has passed, with its double meanings and social commentary surrounded by some  of the best writing on television.
plus, you’ve got the flanders family reunion and the visit to storytown village.
paul: homer had a “demovitvational plaque” put up at work after he quit but had to come back, so he used pictures of maggie to spell out a different message on the sign — “do it for her.”
he’s delivered some of the  best quotes in series history (”then why did i have the bowl, bart?
he’s delivered some of the best quotes in series history (”then why did i have the bowl, bart?
“seinfeld” probably comes closest as far as recent shows go, but if  i could only watch one sitcom for the rest of my life, “the  simpsons” wins in a landslide.
“ladies and gentlemen, uh, we’ve just lost  the picture, but what we’ve seen speaks for itself.
“you don’t win friends with salad!”
q: has the show  maintained its spark, power and wit?
the series can make  biting commentary when it wants to — including about itself — but  more often than not it’s merely meant to deliver a few chuckles, which  many people don’t get enough of in life and desire more of.
burns did  just that, “hiring” nine major leaguers to play for the company  softball team during the playoffs.
and as far as all-time guest stars go, the nod goes to the late phil hartman and his many memorable characters (troy mcclure, lionel hutz).
god not knowing that the st. louis cardinals nfl franchise had relocated was good for a few chuckles, as well, in “homer the heretic.”
friendships were torn apart and then renewed, bart  got caught making a prank call, a “cheers” reference was made and  aerosmith made a cameo – a definite recipe for success.
poking fun at television and “the simpsons” itself, this episode was a satirical high point.
the show isn’t  what it once was.
all right, maybe it won’t be around forever, but it certainly feels that  way.
“i love lisa” —  one of few episodes that centered around ralph wiggum, this show saw him  develop a crush for lisa after she was the only one in class to give him a  valentine’s day card.
sadly, this was the last “simpsons”  episode written by the great john swartzwelder, who may have been the best  overall “simpsons” writer (and certainly the most prolific)  throughout the show’s run.
why has “the  simpsons” lasted so long, and what makes the show so great?
the power plant goes on strike and homer finds himself heading up the union, fighting for a new contract with a dental plan.
though the highs were probably  higher in season seven, you can’t go wrong with the sixth season, which  featured a steady stream of classic episodes: “bart of darkness,”  “itchy and scratchy land,” “lisa on ice,” “homer  badman,” “homer the great,” “two dozen and one  greyhounds,” “lemon of troy,” “who shot mr. burns?
from a crudely animated series of short clips on the tracey ullman show to a  cultural phenomenon, there’s a lot to be said regarding the long-lasting  power of “the simpsons.”
there  are thousands of worthy possibilities.
the native  asked in a stupor, having just been introduced to blackjack and christianity by  homer.
friendships were torn apart and then renewed, bart got caught making a prank call, a “cheers” reference was made and aerosmith made a cameo – a definite recipe for success.
nichols a ref with a sense of humor house ads got eggs?
sure, the paul and linda mccartney thing is a little forced at  the end, but the character development and storytelling is perfect.
q: is there any way to sum up the  cultural impact of “the simpsons?”
the only other series i could put up there in terms of  quality would be “seinfeld,” and even that series tailed off at the  end with a much shorter run.
watch  “radioactive man” and “bart’s friend falls in  love.”)
favorite quote phil: there are thousands of worthy possibilities.
the short answer to the first question is no.
aside from seeing homer in polka-dotted pants, this episode yielded probably the best sequence ever: krusty’s betting against the harlem globetrotters in a staged basketball game, then screaming at the television as the generals lose.
two of the  series’ worst flaws — the contrived trips to other countries and  exceedingly shameless celebrity appearances — both rear their ugly heads  in this terribly unfunny episode.
i’d like to remind them that as a trusted tv personality, i can be  helpful in rounding up others to toil in their underground sugar caves.”
“the regina monologues,” which revolved around the simpsons taking a trip to england.
it could be again at some point with the right  writers.
from a crudely animated series of short clips on the tracey ullman show to a cultural phenomenon, there’s a lot to be said regarding the long-lasting power of “the simpsons.”
but my number one choice has to be the incomparable milhouse van houten.
and “yoink!” who haven’t even seen an episode of “the simpsons.”
and who better to say it than night &  day’s resident “simpsons” experts, phil dzikiy and paul lane? question: 20 years is a long time.
this is a tough call, but i’d have to go with season four, which featured the excellent “mr. plow” and “brother from the same planet” episodes as well as the sweetly funny “lisa’s first word.”
perhaps its placement on fox  — never known for having the highest standards — has something to  do with that, but i’d like to think not.
and i, for one, welcome our new insect overlords.
i’d like to remind them that as a trusted tv personality, i can be helpful in rounding up others to toil in their underground sugar caves.”
how’d they get back?
if you condensed the run of “the simpsons” into the time that “cheers” aired, the quality would probably approach that of the boston-based bar show.
it also had one of the funniest “simpsons” moments ever — poochie’s inevitable demise.
secondary characters are vital to “the simpsons,” moreso than any other show.
the bit with ian mckellen is especially cringe-worthy.
the gruff bartender seems somewhat underappreciated for the self-depreciating remarks he makes that are so off-the-wall funny, and he is just all over the place — from violence to compassion to apathy toward his customers’ well-being — which gives him a lot of depth, a bit more than wiggum.
march 21, 2012 1 photo come celebrate with the peruvian penguins at the aquarium of niagara from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. saturday and sunday.
favorite secondary character phil: how hard is  this?
“king of the hill”  will never be mentioned at the zenith of animation, but i could make an  argument that it belongs in the top three, as it’s been maddeningly  consistent for more than a decade with its subtle southern charm.