having  now watched a few of the early episodes, i can see both why it got canned but  also why plenty of people bought the dvds and brought about its resurrection.
check out lovefilm's online dvd rental service.
similarity to the simpsons: obvious.
conclusion: i'll  rent the second disc at some point
archives february 2007 subscribe to: march 2007 april 2007 may 2007 june 2007 july 2007 august 2007 september 2007 october 2007 november 2007 december 2007 january 2008 february 2008 march 2008 april 2008 may 2008 june 2008 july 2008 august 2008 september 2008 october 2008 november 2008 december 2008 january 2009 february 2009 march 2009 april 2009 may 2009 june 2009 july 2009 august 2009 september 2009 october 2009 november 2009 december 2009 january 2010 february 2010 march 2010 review scheme posts [ atom] [ rss] comments [ atom] [ rss]
comments : this show is still in production despite having been cancelled twice.
with luck, later episodes feature more of  brian and stewie while making the other characters a little more memorable.
jokes about president clinton: some.
basically, it's the kind of thing you wouldn't turn on specially but that's a real score if you're flicking channels while sitting up late with a grouchy baby.
(some of the references are overly american, however, and some are out-of-date now).
it might even be better just going straight to season four and seeing if the show ever really finds its feet.
each episode is a separate scenario with no ongoing story.
that said, watching an episode of family guy is a better way to  spend twenty minutes last thing at night than hunting around on teletext for  something interesting because you can't be bothered to go to bed.
just remember not to end up doing the teletext thing as well...
got a question?add your comment here.
handbook : faq © edmund farrow 2007-9 all rights reserved contact: dadsdinner@dadsdinner.com deals of the week parenting info: - surviving lack of sleep - potty training - the true risk of zombies (and xboxes) - housedad simulator - parent-and-toddler group
wednesday, 27 june 2007 family guy - series 1 volume 1 (dvd) starring : the disembodied voices of some americans, plenty of excellent visual gags and  one-liners and a bunch of rejected plots fromthe simpsons.
this show is still in production despite having been cancelled twice.
support dadsdinner.com by making a donation: gb pounds: us dollars: subscribe to: posts [atom] [rss] comments [atom] [rss] your browser does not support script fun stuff, useful stuff, any old stuff.
that said, watching an episode of family guy is a better way to spend twenty minutes last thing at night than hunting around on teletext for something interesting because you can't be bothered to go to bed.
it's never pleasant waking up  up on the sofa at half-seven in the morning with a small child sitting on your  head playingmario kart.
we've seen it all before.
brilliant comic characters: two.
rated: 15 story: this is an  animated sitcom about the griffin family - fat, oafish dad (peter),  hard-working, well-to-do mum (lois), insecure teenage daughter (meg), idiot  teenage son (chris), evil genius baby (stewie) and their talking,  martini-drinking dog (brian).
stuff for dads wednesday, 27 june 2007 family guy - series 1 volume 1 (dvd) starring :
the best bits are always the brief flash-back and 'what if' scenes that pop up frequently, introduced by lines such as, "i'm not so sure that's a good idea, remember the last time i did the laundry..."
family guy is far better when things revolve around stewie's plans for world domination.
the best bits are  always the brief flash-back
generic comic characters:  the rest.
the disembodied voices of some americans, plenty of excellent visual gags and one-liners and a bunch of rejected plots fromthe simpsons.
brilliant  comic characters: two.
explosions: occasional.
it's never pleasant waking up up on the sofa at half-seven in the morning with a small child sitting on your head playingmario kart.
we've seen it  all before.
family guy is far better when things revolve around  stewie's plans for world domination.
and,  yes, it is a bit likethe simpsons.
rated: 15 story: this is an animated sitcom about the griffin family - fat, oafish dad (peter), hard-working, well-to-do mum (lois), insecure teenage daughter (meg), idiot teenage son (chris), evil genius baby (stewie) and their talking, martini-drinking dog (brian).
labels: comedy, film review (vol.2) agree?
and 'what if' scenes that pop up frequently,  introduced by lines such as, "i'm not so sure that's a good idea, remember  the last time i did the laundry..."
conclusion: i'll rent the second disc at some point but i'm in no great rush.
family guy has moments where it is hilarious but they leap out  unexpectedly in the midst of something which is patently a wannabe ofthe  simpsons, except wackier and not as clever.
if you're desperate for some american comedy, trymy name is earl first - it's consistently funnier and more interesting.
in contrast, the actual story-lines affirming that lazy, idiot dads are really heroes can be tedious.
with luck, later episodes feature more of brian and stewie while making the other characters a little more memorable.
chances of a family guy fanboy slagging me for daring to suggest any similarity tothe
2 week free trial period.
since there are already about  a million episodes ofthe simpsons, a knock-off isn't going to get  anyone excited.
basically, it's the kind of thing  you wouldn't turn on specially but that's a real score if you're flicking  channels while sitting up late with a grouchy baby.
they live in the suburbs in an obscure part of  new england.
family guy has moments where it is hilarious but they leap out unexpectedly in the midst of something which is patently a wannabe ofthe simpsons, except wackier and not as clever.
find any title you want on dvd or blu-ray.
(some of the references are overly american, however,  and some are out-of-date now).
or you could just set your sky+ box to record repeats ofthe simpsons.
9:57 am - permanent link comments: post a comment links to this post: see links to this post    @  create a link home :
the test dadsdinner user collection like to rent movies?
or you could  just set your sky+ box to record repeats ofthe simpsons.
since there are already about a million episodes ofthe simpsons, a knock-off isn't going to get anyone excited.
but i'm in no great rush.
having now watched a few of the early episodes, i can see both why it got canned but also why plenty of people bought the dvds and brought about its resurrection.
just remember  not to end up doing the teletext thing as well...
if you're desperate for some american comedy, trymy name is  earl first - it's consistently funnier and more interesting.
they live in the suburbs in an obscure part of new england.
65,000 dvds available.
these provide nearly all the  laugh-out-loud moments.
and, yes, it is a bit likethe simpsons.
edge of the otherworld humour, drama, reflection (and possibly some christianity).
you can also watch movies online or download movies.
it might even be  better just going straight to season four and seeing if the show ever really  finds its feet.
generic comic characters: the rest.
find the review here.
these provide nearly all the laugh-out-loud moments.
- coping with multiple offspring - kids and tv - naming children - pester power - top tips - terminators - do you have kids? -
that will keep you busy for awhile.
in contrast, the actual story-lines  affirming that lazy, idiot dads are really heroes can be tedious.
chances of a family guy fanboy slagging me for daring to  suggest any similarity tothe
that will  keep you busy for awhile.