since, at the beginning, he was still something of a father, who might be annoyed by the childishness of his son or even by his son’s failure to behave, it was a good demonstration of how homer in some waysfit his role of father, but lacked the moderation or maturity to behave ashe was supposed to.
the writers count on the youth of their fan base to get away with this fraud.
it was a pleasure, then, to watch the cartoon wars episodes recently and have them skewerthe family guy so beautifully, a show about which i cannot say enough ill.
on june 5 at 12'21 pm, joseph method wrote:2 south park can be really gross, but the preachy episodes make it worth it.
i don’t think, though, that homer strangling bart is the equivalent of “kick the baby”.
on july 1 at 1'19 pm, dan wrote:5 that the creators of family guy were born at all represents a staggering failure on the part of planned parenthood.
it is one thing to borrow and make it your own with distinguishable flare, and another to just steal without adding anything progressive.
i used cartman as an example in a paper on hegel’s philosophy of right: (he tells butters, “life goes by pretty fast.
it’s not even libertarian, because they believe that most people are idiots.
phase of the simpsons, and i recall a scene in a more recent episode where homer strangles bart
i suppose it’s the unrepentant preachiness that attracted my notice first.
(whole plot points are devoted to  letting characters say something repeatedly that has a literal meaning in the  story and a more obvious contextual meaning outside it.
you can get an excellentsummary of their criticisms here, or just go watch those episodes.
on june 7 at 12'24 pm, nate wrote:3 mr. method, your description matches my experience of south park perfectly.
an episode like “that 90s show” is extremely self-aware and post-, since of course the 90s was a decade that the simpsons helped to define, and the writers know that (the episode begins the same way as another popular episode where we see marge and homer in the 70s).
there are three elements to every episode: little kids wacky adventure, heavyhanded preachy metaphor, esoteric or closely observed parody, with some episodes more purely one of the three.
example: in one  episode, police have to negotiate with tom cruise to come out of hiding in the  closet of stan marsh’s room.
for me, this endless succession of bones to pick and axes to  grind makes the show’s stories much more interesting than they would  otherwise be.
and simpsons with homer strangling bart, and both moved to more complex satire.
the “free willzyx” episode [2] strikes me as a sort of summation of their philosophical position, which is against sentimentalism of any stripe.
example: in one episode, police have to negotiate with tom cruise to come out of hiding in the closet of stan marsh’s room.
your analysis of episode mechanics, in particular, strikes me as correct.
he has, sadly, followed in the steps of peter griffin, a man who is simply and blankly monstrous.
it was a pleasure, then, to watch the cartoon wars episodes  recently and have them skewerthe family guy so beautifully, a show  about which i cannot say enough ill.
the first episode about the alien anal probes isn’t about anything, but as time has gone on they’ve started to say more and more interesting things.
i still  find many episodes too disgusting to watch, and a significant amount of the  humor is just dumb.
but the most irritating aspect of the show is their blatant plagiarism of the simpsons, as when stewie uses extended arm skin flaps to glide in the sky - a feat that was carried out by “old jewish man” (2 years before) during the olympic games for the elderly when he leaped from the high-dive board.
the lines wobble and the sight gag of bart’s head ‘squishing’ up when homer strangles him is common (homer strangles him whenever he realizes that bart is making fun of him: “why you little…”).
mainly what they offer is a genuinely skeptical/cynical perspective on everything, something that’s not at all common in modernity.
a couple episodes have stayed with me as templates for my thinking.
i still find many episodes too disgusting to watch, and a significant amount of the humor is just dumb.
but i hate family guy.
on may 9 at 2'25 am, avid fan wrote:8 i concur with most of the prior posts.
i’m also glad you reminded me of their take on alcoholism: itwas unusual and delightful to have someone criticize the idea that alcoholism is a disease.
and, frankly, i think the show’s kept up its quality (such  as it is) remarkably well over the years.
homer looks and sounds like a dangerous monster.
an episode i saw recently [3] was pretty clever in many ways.
contrast this to homer simpson, who has evolved from a deeply sympathetic everyman who was excessive in every one of his natural inclinations (including good ones) to a vacuous fiction of a character, a foil who does stupid or selfish things to create obstacles and advance plots, rather than one who often reacts in instinctively stupid or selfish ways to things in the world.
on june 9 at 12'13 am, joseph method wrote:4 nate, i think if you go back and watch those episodes from the first season, you’ll see that everything is very crude and direct, like a cartoon version of married with children.
i wasn’t particularly convinced, but it made me immediately grateful for the dialectical space it created.
i think this was groening making the successful show more like his comic books, which are fairly intellectual.
the nirvana and bush references in that episode are really funny: “margarine!”
if you don’t stop and look around once and a while, and do whatever you want all the time, you could miss it” but he also likes authori-teh).
his tremendous selfishness, his fantastic prowess at manipulation, and his simultaneous childishness are a combination that parker and stone clearly understand enough to preserve.
and, frankly, i think the show’s kept up its quality (such as it is) remarkably well over the years.
then, as groening et al. figure out the medium, everything slows down, the animation gets cleaner and the focus shifts to the complex three-act stories with all the cultural references.
but i must admit to having been wooed over the years by the sardonic vision of parker and stone.
[1] http://www.southparkstudios.com/episodes/103803/ [2] http://www.southparkstudios.com/episodes/103677/ [3] http://www.hulu.com/watch/7631/the-simpsons-that-90s-show
a few seasons in there’s an episode making fun of the early “eat my shorts, man!”
sometimes their take is so contrarian that it makes you glad contrarians exist (the “bloody mary” episode has an interesting take on alcoholism[1]).
the simpsons is my favorite show
sometimes i just disagree with tp & ms’ politics/beliefs, like with the al gore manbearpig episode.
homer strangling bart was (aside from a good sight gag) a demonstration of homer’s inability to restrain his impulses.
look out for “that oughts show” in 2010.
family guy is funny sometimes but all of the gross stuff just makes it not worth it.
june 2, 2008 by nate i was horrified by south park when it came on the air.
but i must admit to having been wooed over the years by the  sardonic vision of parker and stone.
i suppose it’s the unrepentant  preachiness that attracted my notice first.
that homer’s inability to parent more effectively is essentially parallel to bart’s failure to be a good kid is, of course, obvious to us and part of the cleverness of it.
i’d take any of those episodes in a second over the satire of episodes like “that ’90s show”, where the characters are unimportant, and exist merely to serve up a smörgåsbord of (admittedly decent) cultural references and jokes.
all this is to say that i consider it part of the sophisticated character structures that informed stories and interactions in the early years.
then, the simpsons has had to transition from a creative labor of love to a social institution, like saturday night live.
i can’t count the number of times they  were able to have characters say, “tom cruise, come out of the  closet!”)
on december 31 at 12'02 pm, anonymous wrote:7
(whole plot points are devoted to letting characters say something repeatedly that has a literal meaning in the story and a more obvious contextual meaning outside it.
i can’t count the number of times they were able to have characters say, “tom cruise, come out of the closet!”)
family guy has some okay moments (mostly from the earlier seasons) but the style of humor presented is sometimes lazy, as when they break in with the live action musical performances or use excessive flatulence.
you can get an excellentsummary of their  criticisms here, or just go watch those episodes.
on june 2 at 11'25 am, nate wrote:1 i would add that i find cartman to be an essentially successful character: he’s evil in a consistent, terrible, wonderful way.
for me, this endless succession of bones to pick and axes to grind makes the show’s stories much more interesting than they would otherwise be.
but it’s clearly an ironic reference back to that time.
i haven’t watched the simpsons in a long time, but sp and it started out the same, both with bad animation and sp with “kick the baby!”
this is a compelling picture, in my opinion, where many of us feel fundamentally unsuited (or at least occasionally unsuited) to the roles we must play, as much as we frequently are grateful for them, too.
i was horrified by south park when it came on the air.
on december 31 at 12'02 pm, anonymous wrote:6 the simpsons is my favorite show