and i had to turn it off after the first 10 min.
nothing from it was making me laugh.
it was very funny and it had a great plot.
as usual, nbc won the night with it’s sunday night football; fox was  fourth overall on the night, coming second in the aged 18-34 category.
i hope that thoh won’t disappoint us, big numbers are expected and very much needed…reply this episode was awesome way better than family guy, american dad an the cleveland show, this three look all the same… i really don’t know why were the ratings that low, this three episodes of the 21st season were all great!
cleveland is already becoming stupider at an amazing speed; at this rate he’ll be a clone of peter by mid-season.
cleveland is already becoming stupider at an amazing speed; at this rate  he’ll be a clone of peter by mid-season.
reply i’am a fan of all the animation domination shows not just the simpsons and i’m not bias.
i’m not surprised it got low ratings.
and i’m really hoping that the halloween episode will be  the best thoh so far reply ashley 13 october 2009 at 3:01 pm #
this episode was really good and i’m suprised more people  didn’t watch it.
this episode was the worst one this season so far, but still very good.
the family guy episode wasn’t so good here are my ratings for this week family guy-7.6 american dad-7.5 cleveland show-7.9 the simpsons-8.5 marbat, your ratings are useless.
reply marbat 13 october 2009 at 3:34 pm #
i still miss king of the hill.
this episode was by far the worst episode ever!
anyway, i was surprised by how good this episode was, especially considering the premise, which seemed rather silly on paper but worked surprisingly well in practice.
the cleveland show managed to edge the simpsons out of the top spot for the third week running, with 8.8 and 7.78 million viewers tuning in respectively.
anyways, the season honestly has been off to a great start i think.
reply mark 13 october 2009 at 5:39 am # this episode was the worst one this season so far, but still very good.
i thought this episode was the best one so far but that doesn’t say much since there have only been three episodes and the other two were crap.
website rate: them, robot view results | polls archiveloading ...
reply gaulty 13 october 2009 at 11:25 am #
i even tried to watch the cleveland show
reply i meant it was edged off the top spot for the third week running.
the family guy episode wasn’t so good here  are my ratings for this week family guy-7.6
the simpsons episode  was good too.
also on the subject of nbc football, go colts!!!!!
while every show in fox’s animation domination ensemble saw notable reductions in viewer numbers, both a new episode of family guy and it’s new spin-off series
i thought this episode was the best one so far but that  doesn’t say much since there have only been three episodes and the other  two were crap.
but the always good optimism is that  they are all much higher than last year.
reply i thought this episode was actually great.
while every show in fox’s animation domination ensemble saw notable  reductions in viewer numbers, both a new episode of family guy and it’s  new spin-off series the cleveland show managed to edge the simpsons out of the  top spot for the third week running, with 8.8 and 7.78 million viewers tuning  in respectively.
this episode was awesome way better than family guy, american dad an the  cleveland show, this three look all the same… i really don’t  know why were the ratings that low, this three episodes of the 21st season were  all great!
the ratings for bart gets a z say it got over a million viewers more than cleveland last week, yet here it says cleveland beat the simpsons “for the third week running.”
the ratings for bart gets a z say it got over a million  viewers more than cleveland last week, yet here it says cleveland beat the  simpsons “for the third week running.”
i do reckon 9million is a limit for this type of genre these days in the  us.
i do reckon 9million is a limit for this type of genre these days in the us.
everyone has the right to a opinion.
however i know the new thoh will be a lot better though.
reply the clevland show is worse then the simpsons but this episode was slightly better family guy was the 3rd with american dad 4th.
they’re all opinion, and clearly, you are a bigger simpsons fan than any of the other shows.
also, i record the simpsons, i don’t watch it when it airs.
american dad once again finished in fourth place on the night,  with a mediocre 6.7 million watching.
i’m not  surprised it got low ratings.
reply cleveland show was by far the funniest of the night.
the simpsons episode was good too.
reply brian 13 october 2009 at 5:18 am # i meant it was edged off the top spot for the third week running.
also on the subject of nbc  football, go colts!!!!!
reply name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
after the first two eps i thought it  was going to distinguish itself by having a little more heart than family guy  or american dad, but it looks like it’s on track to be a cheap copy of  fg.
7.55 million viewers tuned into “the great wife hope” last night, meaning the third episode of the new season is now the least watched.
-sigh- i’ll  always be bummed when family guy gets a higher rating, but it’s really  sad when the cleveland show beats it.
honestly i thought that this episode will bring us even bigger numbers than  last week, but again we got a surprise (this time not so nice).
-sigh- i’ll always be bummed when family guy gets a higher rating, but it’s really sad when the cleveland show beats it.
reply pleco 12 october 2009 at 8:12 pm # cleveland show was by far the funniest of the night.
cleveland is a funny character, but i think he was funnier as a member of peter’s gang.
reply this episode was awesome!
this episode was really good and i’m suprised more people didn’t watch it.
after the first two eps i thought it was going to distinguish itself by having a little more heart than family guy or american dad, but it looks like it’s on track to be a cheap copy of fg.
i hope that thoh won’t disappoint us, big numbers are expected and  very much needed… reply rmcc(portugal) 13 october 2009 at 2:51 pm #
can’t wait for the thoh this week!
cleveland is a funny  character, but i think he was funnier as a member of peter’s gang.
as usual, nbc won the night with it’s sunday night football; fox was fourth overall on the night, coming second in the aged 18-34 category.
reply marbat has right to put his opinion here no matter is he bigger fan of the simpsons or some other show, and i see no reason why would it bother someone…reply i saw this episode last night, and honestly, in comparing with other two episodes we’ve seen this new season, it’s the worst one… maybe the best part of the episode was when marge was preparing her self for combat (especially part with mr. burns), but ultimate fight at the end was a bit disappointing, since i expected one big crowd fight…
my opinion the only reason i watch it is because i always watch animation domination the best animation domination was when it used to be on tuesdays, aka “da boom!”
but the always good optimism is that they are all much higher than last year.
it had futurama, the pj’s, i think a simpsons repeat and i’m not sure if the 4th show was family guy or king of the hill.
12 october 2009 18 comments ratings: the great wife hope 7.55 million viewers tuned into “the great wife hope” last  night, meaning the third episode of the new season is now the least watched.
some very mixed up season ratings.
and i had to turn it off after the  first 10 min.
and the simpsons need to hover around there to keep themselves in the game so to speakreply
copyright © 1997 - 2010 simpsons channel.
anyway, i was surprised by how good this episode was, especially  considering the premise, which seemed rather silly on paper but worked  surprisingly well in practice.
even my husband ran in to watch it and he usually doesn’t care too much about simpsons.
this website, it's owners, and any content on this site is not authorized by fox.
posted by: brian 18 responses to “ratings: the great wife hope” dick dangerous 12 october 2009 at 7:25 pm # i thought this was a really good episode of the simpsons.
can’t wait for the thoh this week!reply hey, what gives?
the other two were way better!!
i bet the only reason clevland show gets more episodes is because of it being a spin-off that’s
posted by: brian i thought this was a really good episode of the simpsons.
american dad once again finished in fourth place on the night, with a mediocre 6.7 million watching.
and the simpsons need to hover around there to keep themselves in the game  so to speak reply nicolas 13 october 2009 at 12:35 pm #
reply super nintendo chalmers 13 october 2009 at 3:42 am #
i laughed out loud which i rarely do lately!
family guy was just terrible.
cleveland, meanwhile, disappointed me.
reply some very mixed up season ratings.
and i’m really hoping that the halloween episode will be the best thoh so far
honestly i thought that this episode will bring us even bigger numbers than last week, but again we got a surprise (this time not so nice).
is there any point, you will always give the simpson’s high ratings anyway.