[edit] the homer book the homer book was released in the first series of the library of  wisdom.
ned answers kids' questions about religion and a ned flanders cookbook.
view   •  talk  •  edit  •  past
the books feature details on characters  and locations in springfield, and character-specific features.
[edit] series 3 - 2006
the book about ned flanders was released in the fourth series of the  library of wisdom and contains a comic book of virtues, character profiles  (god, maude, rod and todd), ask-aroonie the nedster!
the book breaks a pattern in the title by not being called "the comic book guy book".
each book has the respective character's top 40 and bottom 40, and a day in the life of that character.
the books no longer contained character biographies, and instead contained more locations pages.
the book about ned flanders was released in the fourth series of the library of wisdom and contains a comic book of virtues, character profiles (god, maude, rod and todd), ask-aroonie the nedster!
comic book guy's book of pop culture was released in the second series of the library of wisdom.
this book features the "wisdom" of ralph - namely poems from him (including "the other little ringworm"), a story of "wigglepuppy", his imaginary canine friend and various quotes from him including: "i eat corn!" and "satan told me to tell you "hi"".
the bart book was released in the first series of the library of wisdom.
[edit] the lisa book the lisa book was released in the third series of the library of  wisdom.
the ralph wiggum book was released in the second series of the library of wisdom.
[edit] flanders' book of faith
the books feature details on characters and locations in springfield, and character-specific features.
[edit] series 5 - 2009/2010 [edit] the marge book [edit] chief wiggum's book of crime and punishment the chief wiggum book of crime and punishment is a book detailing clancy  wiggum's career as a police officer in springfield.
thus far, 10 books in the series have been released.
[edit] the book of moe the book of moe was released in the fourth series of the library of wisdom.
it was the third series and again, included two books.
the two books for series 4 are similar to the series 3 books as they focus  on main characters as well.
the simpsons library of wisdom is a series of books, each related to a specific character of the popular cartoon show the simpsons.
these books were released on september 18, 2006.
it also doesn't contain any character profiles.
the book was similar to the bookbart simpson's guide to life, and the  character biographies were also similar to the ones in the complete guide  series.
the book received better reviews than the bart book, due to the fact  there has not formally been a homer-devoted book.
it was the third series  and again, included two books.
it contains humorous anecdotes of fighting crime in springfield, as well as insight into the police force's general laziness.
the ralph wiggum book 2.2 comic book guy's book of pop culture 3 series 3 - 2006 4.1 flanders' book of faith 4.2 the book of moe 5 series 5 - 2009/2010 5.2 chief wiggum's book of crime and punishment [edit] series 1 - 2004 [edit] the bart book the bart book was released in the first series of the library of  wisdom.
there are also amusing laws from the united states  and from around the world added to pages throughout the book.
the lisa book was released in the third series of the library of wisdom.
this book is mostly about comic book guy's take onpopular culture, and little about the actual character himself.
the chief wiggum book of crime and punishment is a book detailing clancy wiggum's career as a police officer in springfield.
the simpsons library of wisdom wikisimpsons - the simpsons wiki jump to: navigation, search the simpsons library of wisdom is a series of books, each related to  a specific character of the popular cartoon show the simpsons.
this book is mostly about  comic book guy's take onpopular culture, and little about the actual character  himself.
it includes a lot of information about moe's love life: (perfect dates, perfect  moe-ments), (20 types of dates) and (moe's tried and almost successful pickup  lines).
it includes a lot of information about moe's love life: (perfect dates, perfect moe-ments), (20 types of dates) and (moe's tried and almost successful pickup lines).
[edit] series 2 - 2005
it contains humorous  anecdotes of fighting crime in springfield, as well as insight into the police  force's general laziness.
the book received better reviews than the bart book, due to the fact there has not formally been a homer-devoted book.
ned answers kids'  questions about religion and a ned flanders cookbook.
each book has  the respective character's top 40 and bottom 40, and a day in the life of that  character.
this book features the "wisdom" of ralph - namely  poems from him (including "the other little ringworm"), a story of  "wigglepuppy", his imaginary canine friend and various quotes from  him including: "i eat corn!" and "satan told me to tell you  "hi"".
thus far, 10  books in the series have been released.
these books got the character profiles back.
[edit] the krusty book the krusty book was released in the third series of the library of  wisdom.
there are also amusing laws from the united states and from around the world added to pages throughout the book.view • talk • edit • past
the homer book was released in the first series of the library of wisdom.
the covers from each region had a lot of differences.
fans were happier with these new books, as they focus on main characters, rather than secondary ones such as the ralph wiggum book.
[edit] series 4 - 2008
from the second series, the books changed slightly.
fans were happier with these new books, as they  focus on main characters, rather than secondary ones such as the ralph wiggum  book.
the krusty book was released in the third series of the library of wisdom.
the two books for series 4 are similar to the series 3 books as they focus on main characters as well.
[edit] comic book guy's book of pop culture comic book guy's book of pop culture was released in the second  series of the library of wisdom.
the book of moe was released in the fourth series of the library of wisdom.
the books no longer  contained character biographies, and instead contained more locations pages.
the book breaks a pattern in the title by not  being called "the comic book guy book".
[edit] the ralph wiggum book the ralph wiggum book was released in the second series of the  library of wisdom.
the book was similar to the bookbart simpson's guide to life, and the character biographies were also similar to the ones in the complete guide series.