but i don’t mind it as i don’t have a cat.
firefox, opera, google chrome and safari won not because there were simply new, but they were (and usually still are) more secure and better supported web standards.
but then other web  browsers came into light and while some did not make it through the browser  wars (see netscape navigator), others became quite successful and very often  overtook our old ie.
but then other web browsers came into light and while some did not make it through the browser wars (see netscape navigator), others became quite successful and very often overtook our old ie.
back to  internet explorer?
facebook voting durex naked box – graphic design contest back to internet explorer?
internet explorer, web browsers multiple facebook likes on one page –
and now microsoft is doing what it can do get their users back.
remember the times when the term “internet explorer” was identical with “browsing the internet”?
on 16/03/2012 in internet add comment remember the times when the term “internet explorer” was  identical with “browsing the internet”?
merry christmas from webdesignprint
i used to be one of the many people telling their family, friends, colleagues and clients to move away from internet explorer as this particular web browser used to be really bad forweb design.
ie9 is a pretty fast web browser that does not have any major issues with web standards (s far as i know) and i, as a web designer, am really happy to see all major web browsers work just fine.
this led to web designers creating special fixes and  workarounds just for ie so the user experience stays the same no matter what  web browser was used.
you are here: home » blog » internet »
internet explorer, web browsers
this led to web designers creating special fixes and workarounds just for ie so the user experience stays the same no matter what web browser was used.
free internet – u.s. congress against?
firefox, opera, google chrome and safari won not because  there were simply new, but they were (and usually still are) more secure and  better supported web standards.
while other browsers rendered code correctly, ie almost always had a problem and rendered an element or a whole website differently.
but i don’t mind it as i don’t  have a cat.
but you can also watch this funny ad which ridicules your typical “say no  to ie” guy, so me too i guess.
there were no other  browsers (or at least they did not have any significant market share back  then), so everyone used ie and was quite happy with it.
but the times have changed and microsoft has done some excellent work to bring its browser back to the party.
you can now play cut the rope for free (make sure to use ie to be able to play all levels) but you can also watch this funny ad which ridicules your typical “say no to ie” guy, so me too i guess.
back to internet explorer?
ie9 is a pretty fast web browser that does  not have any major issues with web standards (s far as i know) and i, as a web  designer, am really happy to see all major web browsers work just fine.
i used to be one of the many people telling their family, friends,  colleagues and clients to move away from internet explorer as this particular  web browser used to be really bad forweb design.
you can now  play cut the rope for free (make sure to use ie to be able to play all levels)
while other browsers rendered  code correctly, ie almost always had a problem and rendered an element or a  whole website differently.
there were no other browsers (or at least they did not have any significant market share back then), so everyone used ie and was quite happy with it.
but the times have changed and microsoft has done some excellent work to  bring its browser back to the party.
you are here: home » blog »