upon allowing the add-on to load and re-running the test it progressed to 20/100, but still failed.
safari 4 was the only browser to fully complete this test and earned a 100/100 score -- a not surprising result given the efforts of the webkit team to target the acid tests as a goal.
personal usage thoughts while not the champion, the new firefox 3.5 is still noticeably faster in daily browsing than the previous 3.1 edition.
earning a 100/100 on the acid3 test means a browser has loaded and completed 100 sub-tasks and successfully changed the graphic colors with each subtask.
other browsers completed the tests, but the gaps were wide: firefox appropriately edged out chrome by about 30 points, but safari took the crown and more than doubled firefoxs score.
show all 02/29 apple cracking down on links in ibookstore...
the score results of this test are generated with a statistical variance of plus or minus a few percent.
we can honestly say weve never seen a software application all but beg to stop a test.
the score results of this test are generated with a statistical  variance of plus or minus a few percent.
03/01 apple tops fortune list of most admired... 02/29 rumor has 7.85-inch ipad produced no... 02/29 lytro's light field camera starts shipping...
the first time ie ran acid3, it stated that it needed to  run an add-on called msxml 3.0 and it made it to 12/100 with some random  graphical errors.
firefox, safari, and chrome all came in at around 2,000 milliseconds, but chrome just barely claimed the win while internet explorer took over 8,000 milliseconds to finish.
firefox is great for those  that love add-ons, and chrome and safari are both very high-speed but also  low-frills.
what left little mystery was internet explorer's habitual lack of performance.
we ran the tests several times and used the score that came with lowest variance.
the score is expressed in  milliseconds, so lower scores are better.
internet explorer really dragged in these tests: several times during the tests, an error box popped up asking to stop running them as they were making the application run slowly.
firefox, safari, and chrome all came in  at around 2,000 milliseconds, but chrome just barely claimed the win while  internet explorer took over 8,000 milliseconds to finish.
even though  firefox didn’t make it to 100 and chrome had failed the  ‘linktest,’ these browsers at least seemed to run the test in the  same amount of time as safari.
other browsers completed the tests, but the  gaps were wide: firefox appropriately edged out chrome by about 30 points, but  safari took the crown and more than doubled firefox’s score.
chrome and safari shared the top spot  for a reason: they consistently took top ranks in our speed tests and are both  a pleasure to use.
dromaeo offers several sets of tests and we opted for the full range, which takes over a half hour to run.
" internet explorer failed the  test spectacularly.
it's interesting to note  the internet explorer generated the most consistent sample of scores at 1.5  percent variance or less and chrome and safari generated the most scattered  scores, at around 4 percent variance.
[u] recent reviews powerbag business class bag many companies currently offer battery packs and various accessories to keep smartphones and other gadgets charged when away from an o ... logitech cube the world of mice could often be described charitably as stagnant: it's an endless sea of ergonomic shapes that assume you're sitting ...
they may have garnered less than 5 percent of the global  browser market, but they're both excellent browsers that deserve more.
whether as a stocking stuffer, chanukah present, or an ... toggle most commented 10 most discussed - foxconn hid underage workers before fla tour,... - samsung galaxy s iii rumored with 4.8in scree... - apple 'considering' 14-inch macbook air for asia - google refocuses on tablets, to build motorol... - apple confirms ipad event for march 7th in sa... - office for ipad reportedly leaked, near ready - google touts 450k android apps, nearing ios o... - proview sues apple in us, accuses it of fraud... - google's schmidt sees $70 android, takes digs... - lenovo leads reliability ratings, apple drops... - samsung official: company 'not doing very wel...
it also still has the  largest development community of all of the browsers available today and its  add-on architecture is not only flexible but results in top notch
wrapping up between the acid and javascript testing and our real world usage tests, we can say without a doubt that we would recommend virtually any of these browsers other than internet explorer.
either is very lightweight and has an extremely simple user interface that gets out of the way when possible.
chrome and safari shared the top spot for a reason: they consistently took top ranks in our speed tests and are both a pleasure to use.
if you haven’t tried one of these browsers before,  we would highly recommend giving one or both of them a go for a solid week --  though mac users will likely have already spent their fair share of time with  apple's software, which can't be said for windows users and chrome.
our final javascript test was provided by a third party known only as celtickane.
it also still has the largest development community of all of the browsers available today and its add-on architecture is not only flexible but results in top notch contributions.
chrome 2 firefox 3.5 internet explorer 8 safari 4 industry compliance testing our first test is from the web standards project (webstandards.org) which is the home of the acid2 and acid3 browser tests.
if we were to give report cards as a result of the test, safari would earn the top mark of an a+ while chrome and firefox would each receive an a. internet explorer, though, clearly earned an f. speed testing with javascript many major web properties rely on javascript to accurately render the user environment.
again, internet explorer took last place while safari led the  pack.
the v8 test uses a complicated formula to calculate the scores, but the  larger the score the better.
the v8 test uses a complicated formula to calculate the scores, but the larger the score the better.
all four browsers passed the acid2 test with no issues, errors, or delays, though it was originally launched in 2005 and has been used as a target for accuracy even by microsoft, which until recent years had not felt compelled to fully support w3c. acid3, however, was a 2008 update to acid2 and was considerably more of a challenge for our four contestants.
our final javascript test was provided by a third party known only as  celtickane.
- firefox always strictly middling.
our second javascript speed test was  webkit.org's sunspider suite of tests.
each test also began with a fresh browser restart.
webkit is the rendering engine for safari, so as with dromaeo and firefox we expected a slant towards chrome and safari.
if you havent tried one of these browsers before, we would highly recommend giving one or both of them a go for a solid week -- though mac users will likely have already spent their fair share of time with apple's software, which can't be said for windows users and chrome.
newertech and targus usb hubs for gifts
firefox was perpetually  middling and came in third place in half of the tests while reaching second  place the other half, never completely winning any one test.
- mail to get new features in mountain lion - apple adopts majority voting on board members - air force backtracks on ipad purchase - apple seen working on both a5x and a6 chips toggle popular news - clear to-do list app hits 350,000 download... - brandywine communications sues apple over ... - dell profit drops 18% as home pcs continue... - samsung to pay customers up to $650 over b... - apple posts efi updates for imacs, macbook... - apple debuts 'mastered for itunes' section... macnn marketplace
just as in the tests, ie is tangibly slower in common use and sometimes creates problems with viewing sites as they were intended.
testing summary disappointingly for those who'd expected a clear leader, the final results were a draw; chrome and safari both won two sets of tests.
show all toggle most popular 10 most read - clear to-do list app hits 350,000 downloads in nine days - brandywine communications sues apple over mobile voicemail - dell profit drops 18% as home pcs continue to take hits - samsung to pay customers up to $650 over broken lcd tvs - apple posts efi updates for imacs, macbooks, mac minis - apple debuts 'mastered for itunes' section, publishes guide - ibooks drm stripped with new requiem tool - telus puts nokia lumia 800
chrome and firefox produced very similar results but reached second and third places respectively.
all testing was done under actual usage scenarios with other applications running in the background.
ios vulnerability allows apps to grab...
firefox came close at 93/100; chrome, which also uses a modern webkit engine, matched apple at 100/100 but unusually produced an error stating that the "linktest failed.
personal usage habits aside, this review will serve as a comprehensive and objective survey of the current browsing landscape.
these tests verify that browsers are compliant with major web standards including w3c, html 4.0, xml 1.0, xhtml 1.1, and dom and ecma standards.
we ran the tests several times and  used the score that came with lowest variance.
- firefox best with add-ons.
because of its prevalence in modern web-browsing, our speed tests focused on  the browsers' ability to quickly render javascript code.
despite coming in third in our speed tests, it's responsive for day to day use and is quite stable, which couldn't always be said for earlier versions and other modern browsers.
chrome and firefox produced very similar results but reached second and  third places respectively.
twitter to start inserting ads into... 02/27 apple launches 'developer id' program...
a useful holiday present to resolve an ongoing frustration is a multi-port hub.
surprisingly, firefox was in a distant third place, and the results for internet explorer barely registered.
it's interesting to note the internet explorer generated the most consistent sample of scores at 1.5 percent variance or less and chrome and safari generated the most scattered scores, at around 4 percent variance.
acid2 is designed to expose browsers and  applications that inaccurately render simpler web content, particularly tests  for w3c html and css compliance that should be common on the web.
firefox was perpetually middling and came in third place in half of the tests while reaching second place the other half, never completely winning any one test.
on shelves march 2 - odd counterfeiting bust in china reveals 'iphone' stoves - reflection app offers wireless ios mirroring on mac - forum roundup: "mac os x" to "os x" and more - lytro's light field camera starts shipping - bing, nokia, windows phone debut unified map style - live: google's eric schmidt at mwc 2012
in the spirit of full disclosure and honest journalism, we should disclose that our primary browser on a daily basis is firefox.
by kelcey lehrich, editor
google of course uses the  v8 javascript engine in chrome, so we anticipated a slanted result here as  well.
32gb ipod touch 3g, reduced...
again, internet explorer took last place while safari led the pack.
we didnt design this article to bash against microsoft, but their product truly is second class compared to the competition.
personal usage thoughts while not the champion, the new firefox 3.5 is still noticeably  faster in daily browsing than the previous 3.1 edition.
surprisingly, firefox was  in a distant third place, and the results for internet explorer barely  registered.
show all 03/01 pre-owned 8gb ipod touch 2g, drops... 02/29 $150 off nikon coolpix s80 compact... 02/28 plantronics backbeat 903 bluetooth... 02/27 refurb.
the laptop is a dell latitude d630 with 2gb of ram, a core duo processor and windows xp.
they may have garnered less than 5 percent of the global browser market, but they're both excellent browsers that deserve more.
what left little  mystery was internet explorer's habitual lack of performance.
seagate 1.5tb goflex portable... 02/24 refurb.
we  didn’t design this article to bash against microsoft, but their product  truly is second class compared to the competition.
our second javascript speed test was webkit.org's sunspider suite of tests.
upon allowing the add-on to load and re-running the test it  progressed to 20/100, but still failed.
either  is very lightweight and has an extremely simple user interface that gets out of  the way when possible.
the first time ie ran acid3, it stated that it needed to run an add-on called msxml 3.0 and it made it to 12/100 with some random graphical errors.
these tests verify that browsers  are compliant with major web standards including w3c, html 4.0, xml 1.0, xhtml  1.1, and dom and ecma standards.
it builds upon acid2 and stresses compliance with the dom (document object model) and javascript, the latter of which is crucial to most modern web apps like google docs.
as seen with dromaeo  and firefox, there was no home field advantage for safari.
once again, internet explorer couldnt run the full set of tests and in this case kept locking up on a "base64" sub-test.
it consistently  came in last place for each of the tests and was by far the worst performing  browser in the acid3 test.
despite coming in third in our speed tests, it's responsive for  day to day use and is quite stable, which couldn't always be said for earlier  versions and other modern browsers.
webkit is the rendering engine for  safari, so as with dromaeo and firefox we expected a slant towards chrome and  safari.
it consistently came in last place for each of the tests and was by far the worst performing browser in the acid3 test.
all four  browsers passed the acid2 test with no issues, errors, or delays, though it was  originally launched in 2005 and has been used as a target for accuracy even by  microsoft, which until recent years had not felt compelled to fully support w3c. acid3, however, was a 2008 update to acid2 and was considerably more  of a challenge for our four contestants.
this is especially true given the rapid shift in market share from internet explorer's one-time dominance: according to statcounter, internet explorer currently commands just 61 percent of the browser market, while firefox has climbed to second place with 30 percent market share and the last 9 percent shared between chrome, opera, safari and smaller rivals.
the results for this test are expressed in the number of test runs per second, so the higher the score the better.
macnn rating: product manufacturer: apple, google, microsoft, mozilla price: free the good - chrome and safari both very accurate and fast.
wrapping up between the acid and javascript testing  and our real world usage tests, we can say without a doubt that we would  recommend virtually any of these browsers other than internet explorer.
we can honestly say we’ve never  seen a software application all but beg to stop a test.
dromaeo is a mozilla project and, in theory, might favor firefox.
once again,  internet explorer couldn’t run the full set of tests and in this case kept  locking up on a "base64" sub-test.
there are no redeeming qualities to the software's performance or ability  to draw websites, and it's bad enough that we would recommend any other browser  over internet explorer unless it's absolutely required.
with the latest versions of apples safari and mozillas firefox recently released, it became time for a browser comparison to test whether or not improvements in standards and raw speed have made a difference.
because of its prevalence in modern web-browsing, our speed tests focused on the browsers' ability to quickly render javascript code.
safari 4 was the  only browser to fully complete this test and earned a 100/100 score -- a not  surprising result given the efforts of the webkit team to target the acid tests  as a goal.
02/29 official apple store app gets new ordering... 02/28
the bad - internet explorer uniformly bad in all tests.
internet explorer may still have the largest share of the browser market, but after these tests we're wondering why.
all of our testing was conducted on anotebook connected to a wi-fi network to simulate real world usage.
we dont think it would be fair to say that firefox and chrome are vastly inferior to safari in their rendering capabilities; they simply dont adhere to the standards as closely as safari does.
just as in the tests,  ie is tangibly slower in common use and sometimes creates problems with viewing  sites as they were intended.
our third  test was google's own v8 javascript rendering test.
the score is expressed in milliseconds, so lower scores are better.
the tests were not pursued in a lab environment, but should be representative of what an end user would expect.
02/29 apple market cap tops $500 billion...
we tried running smaller sets of  tests, but each batch resulted in at least one error that prevented internet  explorer from completing the run.
acid2 is designed to expose browsers and applications that inaccurately render simpler web content, particularly tests for w3c html and css compliance that should be common on the web.
safari  4 industry compliance testing our first test is from the web standards project (webstandards.org) which is  the home of the acid2 and acid3 browser tests.
internet explorer may still have  the largest share of the browser market, but after these tests we're wondering  why.
as seen with dromaeo and firefox, there was no home field advantage for safari.
our review of these four popular browsers began with fresh installs and updates of each one.
by kelcey lehrich, editor print email () share the article facebook twitter delious slash dot buzz up digg related reviews - powerbag business class bag - logitech cube - newertech and targus usb hubs for gifts - x-rite colormunki photo - epson workforce 840 printer toggle network headlines 03/01 filemaker devcon set for july 16th-... - macnn - electronista - ipodnn - dealnn 03/01 ipad 3 digitizer photos show home button... 03/01 apple tops fortune list of most admired... 03/01 apple sets sights on new portland,... 02/29 rumor has 7.85-inch ipad produced
our third test was google's own v8 javascript rendering test.
google of course uses the v8 javascript engine in chrome, so we anticipated a slanted result here as well.
firefox came close at 93/100; chrome, which also uses a modern  webkit engine, matched apple at 100/100 but unusually produced an error stating  that the "linktest failed.
dromaeo is a mozilla project  and, in theory, might favor firefox.
it builds upon acid2 and stresses  compliance with the dom (document object model) and javascript, the latter of  which is crucial to most modern web apps like google docs.
testing summary disappointingly for those who'd expected a clear leader, the final results were  a draw; chrome and safari both won two sets of tests.
internet explorer really dragged in these tests: several times  during the tests, an error box popped up asking to stop running them as they  were making the application run slowly.
even though firefox didnt make it to 100 and chrome had failed the linktest, these browsers at least seemed to run the test in the same amount of time as safari.
we tried running smaller sets of tests, but each batch resulted in at least one error that prevented internet explorer from completing the run.
if we were to give report cards as a result of the test, safari  would earn the top mark of an a+ while chrome and firefox would each receive an  a. internet explorer, though, clearly earned an f. speed testing with javascript many major web  properties rely on javascript to accurately render the user environment.
this can  largely be pinned on safari's nitro engine, which is touted as better optimized  than chrome's and also has the advantage of the fairly lean webkit rendering  engine to back it up.
there are no redeeming qualities to the software's performance or ability to draw websites, and it's bad enough that we would recommend any other browser over internet explorer unless it's absolutely required.
again, the results are measured in milliseconds, so the lower the  score the better.
dromaeo offers several sets of tests and  we opted for the full range, which takes over a half hour to run.
this can largely be pinned on safari's nitro engine, which is touted as better optimized than chrome's and also has the advantage of the fairly lean webkit rendering engine to back it up.
- - all - mac news - reviews - pod casts - ipod news - by category - follow us on twitter - - current podcast (download) - podcast - subscribe - - portal - headlines + news - headlines - legacy - turn off vibrant links - turn off tynt paste feature - turn off apture sharing/search bar - - ipod news - portal - headlines - archives - by category - top stories - submit tips - reviews - review home - review by category - review sorted alphabetically - blogs - general - eye on apple - apple patents - forums - main - hardware - software - ipod - other topics - community - services - rss feeds - newsletter - ipodnn mobile - irc chat - change password - contact - about ipodnn - news tips - feedback - corrections - submission guidelines toggle 0
our first  javascript performance test is from dromaeo.com.
earning a 100/100 on  the acid3 test means a browser has loaded and completed 100 sub-tasks and  successfully changed the graphic colors with each subtask.
review: browser tests: chrome, firefox, ie, safari a comparison between four major browsers after their major updates.
the results  for this test are expressed in the number of test runs per second, so the  higher the score the better.
chrome did in  fact win this test, but safari took a close second.
our first javascript performance test is from dromaeo.com.
no... show all 03/01 ipad 3 digitizer photos show home button...
chrome did in fact win this test, but safari took a close second.
again, the results are measured in milliseconds, so the lower the score the better.
firefox is great for those that love add-ons, and chrome and safari are both very high-speed but also low-frills.
we don’t think it would be fair to say that  firefox and chrome are vastly inferior to safari in their rendering  capabilities; they simply don’t adhere to the standards as closely as  safari does.
" internet explorer failed the test spectacularly.
- microsoft pr offers mixed messages on office for ipad