in a move which we can only describe as oozing with self-confidence, google points out that there are some known issues --visit this page, and revel in its blankness.
the html5 web video wars are heating up again, this time with the news that google has announced to remove support for the h.264 codec from the chrome browser in the next couple months.
think about it as google’s version of a gaming console.
this year, new game looks at what is possible in the browser today.
earlier this year, in june, i ran the first of my side-by-side deathmatches to try and work out which, if any, of the browsers is truly the hardware accelerated king.
you can currently toggle chat, new mail, and new important mail -- but presumably, you'll be able to select whichlabels will produce notifications.
now if you’ll excuse me, it’s time to get back to mysonar tab.
bigger and better games are coming to the browser rapidly (and just wait untilnative client with 3d lands in chrome), and it’s hard to keep up with the technology and scene.
and how will you handle html5 web video?
first, we are making available a brand new field guide to web applications, to help developers create great web apps.
as of today, it will install games without your permission.
some thing google tries to push their own codec at the expense of the chrome user experience, others state that the webm8 codec is inferior to h.264 in quality.
finally, we've also joined google+ with a new page specifically for chrome developers.
with the growing popularity of html5 games and applications, it looks like google has a vision of its own.
first, we’re collaborating with all browser vendors to give you access to exciting new html5 apis such as gamepad,mouse lock and fullscreen.
whether you're building your first web app or are just looking for ways to improve your existing apps, we hope you'll find the field guide useful.
while that’s not the case for youtube and maybe a few other sites, the majority of internet sites will not encode their videos multiple times to make sure they can be watched in all browsers.
chrome has leapfrogged from version 7 to 9, firefox has been working frantically on its javascript engine to catch chrome, and internet explorer 9 has been quietly -- but confidently -- working behind the scenes on the entire package.
for more information on new game, including session and speaker details, please visitwww.newgameconf.com and follow @newgameconf for the latest news.
all good things come in threes.
if you're just getting started with chrome frame, you can check out google's handy intro video after the jump.
so i pulled together a few of my favorite examples from the cutting edge of the web platform and recorded three screencasts to help my friend—and others—meet the web platform again for the first time.
click it, and speechify will convert the words you speak into text.
between building new virtual cities and slaying dragons, we’re also working on making the web a better platform for game developers.
the event will take place november 1-2, 2011 at the beautiful yerba buena center for the arts in san francisco, ca.
whether you’re building modern web apps, using dart or webrtc, we’ll be there to help you!
in fact, there's as least one slick extension you can already install: speechify.
new game, the first north american conference for html5 game developers, is now open forregistration.
google product manager mike jazayeri admits that ” h.264 plays an important role in video” but that google has decided to direct their resources exclusively “towards completely open codec technologies”.
i’ve been a bit too busy playing and testing new browser-based games such asmonster dash, angry birds, and the newly released sonar.
maximum score: 377 points.
the band and pilobolus dancers are filmed through a clear floor, making increasingly complex shapes and eventually words—and messages you can write yourself.
now that google chrome 11 has hit the beta channel, you can expect to see extension and web app developers making use of the new html5 speech-to-text api.
beta – 262 opera 11 alpha – 223 opera 10.63 – 203 safari 5.0.2 – 178 webkit r70433 – 196 conclusion
while not many details were revealed, it is known that the search giant is already working on the next instance of its google tv service, with the hardware set to debut sometime next year.
why add gamepad support anyway?
thanks to nox for the tip.
h.264 is the blu-ray codec and apple makes use of it as well in their products.
results higher is better.
google, the premier sponsor, and conference directorbocoup invite you to take  advantage ofearly bird registration pricing, available for a limited time.
you are invited to join hundreds of html5 game  developers for two days of technical sessions and case studies from developers  and publishers who brought their games to the open web platform.
in addition, the conference will feature sessions exploring and  analyzing lessons-learned from recent html5 game launches.
the emergence of new features has all but ceased: all three vendors are now readying themselves for an epic market share battle at the start of 2011.
go, the dance troupe and choreographerspilobolus, and google—you can embed your message in a music video and have the band dance it out.
these can help you create more immersive experiences for your users.
theschedule also includes sessions from mozilla,  spil, opera, google, bocoup, gamesalad, moblyng, and others.
second, our popular html5 site, html5rocks.com, was also remodeled to better organize the site's content.
well, now chrome frame is stable, so load times and crashes are way down.
you've still got to press enter or click to search, and an automatic submit option is definitely something we'd like to see added.
in addition to that, it will feature a support for cameras and microphones that don’t have to be plugged in.
microsoft, of course, is standing behind mpeg-la's codec -- and now it's making sure that chrome users will still be able to view html5 video embeds which are encoded with it.
sessions will focus on the technologies that have elevated the browser-based gaming experience, such as webgl, canvas, and javascript performance techniques.
delivered by feedburner follow us on twitter @chromebrowser a few weeks ago one of my developer friends was gushing about the capabilities of his favorite native platform.
if you're a hardened web expert, spend a few minutes leafing through it to enjoy the html5esque features -- the offline storage, the page-turning, flipping the light switch in the bottom-right corner -- and then send the link to a friend or family member.
new game, the first north american conference for html5 game developers, is  now open forregistration.
it's a little bit slow with opera, but there should be a hardware-accelerated beta version of opera 11 any day now... 20 things i learned about browsers and the web is a beautiful and educational example of what we can expect from the html5 web.
in addition, we consolidated many of the different components, and deeply integrated thehtml5 technology classes to bring a better identity to the site.
cross posted at the google code blog this post almost wasn’t written.
google, the premier sponsor, and conference directorbocoup invite you to take advantage ofearly bird registration pricing, available for a limited time.
now google has returned the favor by offering awebm plug-in for internet explorer 9 users.
checkthe google announcement if you want more details.
if you look at entertainment devices you notice that the majority plays h.264 but not webm or theora.
if you're already using the chrome frame beta, you'll be automatically updated to the stable version, and future updates will happen on the same update schedule as chrome itself.
beta – 80 firefox 3.6.10 – 145 firefox 4
in all is not lost — an html5 music collaboration between the band ok
in addition, the conference will feature sessions exploring and analyzing lessons-learned from recent html5 game launches.
the future of gaming is in your browser, so i’ll see you at new game!
the plug-in only works on vista and windows 7, but conveniently the same is true for ie9.
for more information on new game, including session and speaker details,  please visitwww.newgameconf.com and follow @newgameconf for the latest news.
google™ is a trademark of google inc. all other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated.
after every point i felt obliged to point out that the web platform either already had or was actively developing precisely the same capabilities—and then some.
i’ve been a bit too busy playing and testing new browser-based games  such asmonster dash, angry birds, and the newly released sonar.
install speechify, and you'll see a microphone icon added into the search box on many popular sites -- like google and bing.
some fairly big-name sites like deviantart, hootsuite and github have already jumped on the chrome frame bandwagon, and i'm sure more will follow their lead.
chrome will eventually only support html5 web videos that are making use of google’s own webm (vp8) codec or theora video codecs, and will refuse to play h.264 videos if the website in question streams video in that format only.
in the last five months, all three browsers have been maturing.
google chrome browser is a community site for users and developers of the google chrome browser.
filed under: microsoft, browsers filed under: developer, utilities, google, browsers google chrome frame, google's plug-in for bringing html5 and the latest web apps to ie 6, 7, and 8, hasreached stable status and left beta.
but it doesn’t always say exactly what we want it to say.
theschedule also includes sessions from mozilla, spil, opera, google, bocoup, gamesalad, moblyng, and others.
the first video, building on foundations, goes over how the web platform has been fixing various historical shortcomings and building upon its core strengths, like complicated graphical effects, composability, and advanced text layout.
today, we test five most popular web browsers to find out, who leads and who lags in thehtml5 benchmark.
hundreds of millions play games on the web everyday - including most of us on the chrome team.
according to google osblog post, it now comes with two html5 games pre-installed:poppit and entanglement.
20 things i learned about browsers and the web is a beautiful and educational example of what we can expect from the html5 web.
google chrome browser site is not affiliated with or sponsored by google inc. google chrome browser site is built on thedrupal open source content management system.
the magic will be handled by a new browser add-on called windows media player extension for html5.
what’s your take on this?
according to the edge, during the develop liverpool conference in london, google’s developer paul kinlan has announced that google chrome will receive gamepad support tin the first quarter of 2012.
the event will  take place november 1-2, 2011 at the beautiful yerba buena center for the arts  in san francisco, ca.
if you plan on using ie9 but don't want to miss out on all the webm videos which are popping up,download and install the plug-in now.
at least this one actuallyworks with firefox and internet explorer 9!
first person shooters are next.
not too long ago, microsoft released an extension for google chrome which enabled h.264 html5 video playback.
after the first  day, we’ll network with our colleagues and share high scores at the new  game party, open to all registered attendees.
so what better way to bring everyone together to share  stories and keep up to date than to hold a conference dedicated to html5 game  development?
google has already announced that it would be dropping h.264 support from chrome, but some other key players in the browser arena aren't backing down.
you are invited to join hundreds of html5 game developers for two days of technical sessions and case studies from developers and publishers who brought their games to the open web platform.
currently, only google chrome and firefox are supported.
the majority of commenters at the official blog announcement over at the chromium blog appear to disagree with google on the move.
lets take a look at browsers and their html5 video support: google chrome until now was the only browser that supported all video codecs.
this guide walks you through topics like app design fundamentals, tips for creating great experiences and a few case studies that put the best practices to use.
chrome frame lets developers of modern sites and web apps support legacy browsers, with the plugin handling the html5 rendering when a user's old browser -- ok, old version of ie -- can't get the job done.
(cross-posted on the official google blog)
we all have a song or a personal soundtrack that speaks to us.
as per our test, google chrome 8 takes the lead, followed by google chrome 7 and firefox 4
chrome frame is an alternative to more complex hacks that tend to slow sites down, but the beta tag probably scared some developers away.
so what better way to bring everyone together to share stories and keep up to date than to hold a conference dedicated to html5 game development?
with gdc about to start, we wanted to give you a quick update on these efforts.
internet explorer 8 – 32 internet explorer 9
it was developed by the google chrome team to showcase both the power of its browser, and ofhtml5 itself.
put simply, it's a delight.
bigger and  better games are coming to the browser rapidly (and just wait untilnative  client with 3d lands in chrome), and it’s hard to keep up with the  technology and scene.
internet users now have the problem that their favorite browser may not be able to play videos that they want to watch on the internet, which means that they need to keep a second browser installed, or download the videos to the computer to watch them locally.
so, this week, the chrome developer relations team is releasing three new resources for developers.
as it turned out, firefox 4 and internet explorer 9 were pretty equally balanced.
as is the case with docs and gmail, you'll need to be using a compatible browser to be able to use drag-and-drop uploading.
if our speculation stands correct (and only time will tell), we guess that google chrome will be an essential part of google tv, offering its users an ability to play html5 games on their tv with a gamepad attached.
after the first day, we’ll network with our colleagues and share high scores at the new game party, open to all registered attendees.
beta 6 – 235 google chrome 7.0.517.41 – 248 google chrome 8.0.552.11
20 things is fully illustrated, too, and on each page a cheesy subtitle or piece of poetry awaits.
it's a damn sight better than google's last attempt at an html5 showpiece, that's for sure.
sessions will focus on the technologies that have elevated the browser-based  gaming experience, such as webgl, canvas, and javascript performance  techniques.
the next video, learning from other platforms, reviews how the web platform offers new capabilities inspired by successes on other platforms with things like push notifications, payment apis, and web intents.
to add the extension to your google chrome install, just visit microsoft's download page and agree to the alert you see above.
however, manual removal is possible.
unfortunately for internet explorer 9 and 8, they are in the bottom, followed by firefox 3.6 and safari 5.
what does it mean for chrome users?
you’ll now find new "persona pages" with catered content in 3 different verticals (games, business, mobile).
new game is honored to have rich hilleman, ea’s chief creative officer, keynote the event.
if you reload your gmail tab, you should be prompted to enable the desktop notifications -- otherwise, head into settings, scroll down to desktop notifications, and choose what kind of notifications you want.
no, it's not a full-on plug-in -- which is kind of what we were expecting, given microsoft's affinity fornpapi tomfoolery.
if you are using the dev channel builds of google chrome 10, prepare for a nice surprise.
new game is honored to have rich hilleman, ea’s chief creative  officer, keynote the event.
just two months later, in august, chrome had stolen the top spot and sent firefox 4, in a fit of tears, to the bottom of the heap.
browsers internet explorer 8 internet explorer 9 firefox 3.6 firefox 4 google chrome 7 google chrome 8 opera 11 opera 10.6 safari 5 webkit
keep your eyes open for our weekly hangouts and add us to your circles.