according to the notification mozilla project, google and mozilla extended “significant and mutually beneficial deal.”
the basis for the 102-page report, prepared by researchers at the company accuvant, was the assumption that no complex software …read more → firefox, google chrome, internet explorer, security, study mozilla announced the availability of a beta version of firefox 9 in the same week, when for public use was available for firefox 8 .
the basis for the 102-page report, prepared by  researchers at the company accuvant, was the assumption that no complex  software …read more → share firefox, google chrome, internet explorer, security, study mozilla launches beta version of firefox 9 for desktops and on android  devices november 14th, 2011 | posted by synt4x in general - (0 comments) mozilla announced the availability of a beta version of firefox 9 in the  same week, when for public use was available for firefox 8 .
follow @letsbytecode
chrome the most secure browser, ie second, firefox on third  place december 12th, 2011 | posted by synt4x in security - (0 comments) google chrome better than other popular browsers to protect against online  threats.
among the innovations presented to one of the key specified is added to the browser search for microblogging service twitter.
according to the notification of security, firefox 10, thunderbird, and seamonkey 2.7 10 error prone to use after release, allowing an attacker to execute arbitrary code on the …read more → critical vulnerability in its products, esr, extended support release, firefox, functional auto-update firefox, mozilla has removed a critical vulnerability, mozilla releases, potentially exploitative, thunderbird and seamonkey norman questioned the company safety study of the browsers of accuvant labs.
in addition to actually find records that support queries  containing “heshtegi” and user names.
to know  more get the latest updates from letsbytecode via email.
the  problem lies in the so-called sponsored results, that is in the ads, which  first appear in the search for certain keywords.
it should be noted  that the study was commissioned by google.
experts antivirus company norman questioned the study of the  safety of the browsers, conducted by accuvant labs.
among the innovations presented to one of the  key specified is added to the browser search for microblogging service  twitter.
they are slightly different from the usual results, which produces bing, but similar …read more→ adobe flash, advertising, bing in search, download flash player, ekelberri, firefox, flash player, getadobeflash.com, gfi, infect the user, max + +, search, sirefef, skype, trojans, zeroaccess1 2 3 »
company mozilla released a security update for its core products firefox,thunderbird and seamonkey, which eliminated a critical vulnerability.
december 27th, 2011 | posted by  synt4x in security - (0 comments) norman questioned the company safety study of the browsers of accuvant  labs.
mozilla firefox on the page developer reported  that the company hopes to make available the final …read more → share beta-test, firefox, firefox 9, firefox to photograph, html5 platform  android firefox 8 released november 9th, 2011 | posted by synt4x in general -  (0 comments)
according to the survey, it was …read more → accuvant labs, commissioned by google, firefox, five times more malware than chrome, internet explorer can block up, norman believe that prior, nss labs google will be your default search engine in mozilla firefox in the next three years.
according to the survey, it was  …read more → share accuvant labs, commissioned by google, firefox, five times more malware  than chrome, internet explorer can block up, norman believe that prior, nss labs mozilla and google have extended a partnership agreement december  22nd, 2011 | posted bysynt4x in general - (0 comments) google will be your default search engine in mozilla firefox in the next  three years.
non-profit mozilla foundation released a union eighth version of firefox,  said in an official blog mozilla.
it should be noted that the study was commissioned by google.
mozilla has removed a critical vulnerability in its products february  13th, 2012 | posted bysynt4x in security - (0 comments) vulnerability to execute arbitrary code applies to firefox, thunderbird and  seamonkey.
earlier,  accuvant labs safest browser recognized chrome, in second place internet  explorer, and third place went to firefox.
the problem lies in the so-called sponsored results, that is in the ads, which first appear in the search for certain keywords.
posted by synt4x in security - (0 comments)
representatives of google, in turn, said: «mozilla  has been …read more → share 123 million in profits, 2010 representatives of mozilla, firefox, google  and mozilla, google will be your default try to crack:
company mozilla released a security update for its core  products firefox,thunderbird and seamonkey, which eliminated a critical  vulnerability.
according to the notification of security, firefox 10,  thunderbird, and seamonkey 2.7 10 error prone to use after release, allowing an  attacker to execute arbitrary code on the …read more → share critical vulnerability in its products, esr, extended support release,  firefox, functional auto-update firefox, mozilla has removed a critical  vulnerability, mozilla releases, potentially exploitative, thunderbird and  seamonkey norman: how safe is your browser?
it is clear from the study, during which the score abilities chrome, internet explorer and mozilla firefox mitigate exploits of, recognize malicious links, etc.
is that even a real anti-virus program?
function is still only available for english, …read more → firefox, firefox 8 download, firefox for smartphones, firefox latest download, webgl and html5
according to the notification mozilla project, google  and mozilla extended “significant and mutually beneficial  deal.”
according to security researchers gfi software, flash player search on  yahoo and bing can lead to hacked pages, spreading stubborn rootkits.
representatives of google, in turn, said: «mozilla has been …read more → 123 million in profits, 2010 representatives of mozilla, firefox, google and mozilla, google will be your default google chrome better than other popular browsers to protect against online threats.
earlier, accuvant labs safest browser recognized chrome, in second place internet explorer, and third place went to firefox.
the latest beta version of firefox has some significant enhancements, including support for mac os x lion.
function is still only  available for english, …read more → share firefox, firefox 8 download, firefox for smartphones, firefox latest  download, webgl and html5 sponsored results of bing and yahoo are too difficult to remove have  rootkit october 18th, 2011 |
it is clear from the study, during which the score abilities  chrome, internet explorer and mozilla firefox mitigate exploits of, recognize  malicious links, etc.
vulnerability to execute arbitrary code applies to firefox, thunderbird and seamonkey.
they are slightly  different from the usual results, which produces bing, but similar …read  more→ share adobe flash, advertising, bing in search, download flash player, ekelberri, firefox, flash player, getadobeflash.com, gfi, infect the user, max + +, search, sirefef, skype, trojans, zeroaccess 1 2 3 » wait!
under the agreement, google will continue to be my default  search engine in the browser firefox for “at least another  three years.”
mozilla firefox on the page developer reported that the company hopes to make available the final …read more → beta-test, firefox, firefox 9, firefox to photograph, html5 platform android non-profit mozilla foundation released a union eighth version of firefox, said in an official blog mozilla.
according to security researchers gfi software, flash player search on yahoo and bing can lead to hacked pages, spreading stubborn rootkits.
under the agreement, google will continue to be my default search engine in the browser firefox for “at least another three years.”
the  latest beta version of firefox has some significant enhancements, including  support for mac os x lion.
experts antivirus company norman questioned the study of the safety of the browsers, conducted by accuvant labs.
in addition to actually find records that support queries containing “heshtegi” and user names.