for the end user, firefox 11 introduces add-on sync.
chrome/firefox: if you regularly mistype your password because you're in a rush, visual hashing will turn your password into a colored hash to you can immediately see whether you've typed it correctly or not.
more » firefox/chrome/safari: netflix's new interface may not be the most fun to navigate, but you can ease a bit of the pain with a user script that adds gmail-like keyboard shortcuts to the entire thing.
opera mini on the other hand has been doing well for quite some time and saw a generous 0.36 point increase, up from 1.53% to 1.89%.
opera looking into it.
the new version brings in quite a lot of new features for end users and web developers alike.
for the second month in a row, internet explorer continues to increase its market share and is now up by 0.76 point, from 48.16% to 48.92%.
as it turns out, the search giant funded study has made a conclusion that google chrome is the most secure browser out there, followed by internet explorer and firefox.
what are your predictions for 2012?
after last month’s drop, google chrome has pretty much recovered from the drop, up from 17.20% to 17.48%, 0.2 point increase.
add-on sync uses firefox’s built-in sync feature to ensure that all your firefox installations are in sync with the installed firefox add-ons, in addition to the bookmarks, open tabs, history and passwords.
google chrome browser site is not affiliated with or sponsored by google inc. google chrome browser site is built on thedrupal open source content management system.
in addition to google’s announcement, the search giant has also confirmed that they will work on a touch optimized version of google chrome for the desktop.
the new os and the metro ui offers an interesting new platform and we know users will want to run opera on it.”
what’s the difference between metro and desktop ie?
what about other web browsers?
you forgot to go incongnito beforehand.
if you aren't a fan of google reader's new interface, this add-on will take out all the clutter, giving you a pretty, readable version of the current article and nothing else.
despite continuous ie bashing in various communities, it still managed to beat firefox in a non-biased study.
tested web browsers internet explorer 10 (ie10) platform preview internet explorer 10 (ie10) metro platform preview google chrome 18
benchmark results with the release of windows 8 consumer preview, guys at neowin have managed to benchmark the latest version of ie10, which is internet explorer 10 platform preview 5, running in both desktop and metro modes.
however, turns out, google is also developing a google chrome metro version, which will be available for the windows 8 consumers.
more » with the firefox 10, opera 12 and internet explorer 10 releases just around the corner, guys from tomshardware have decided to test the latest stable builds of the top 5 web browsers on both windows 7 and mac os x lion.
after some consolidation, opera’s market share went up from 1.54% to 1.60%, reaching the level last seen on july 2011 (0.06 point increase).
more » google chrome browser is a community site for users and developers of the google chrome browser.
you've frantically deleted the site from your history once you realized your mistake, but from this point forward, every time you type in "po", chrome helpfully autocompletes the entire url.
it’s that time of the month again when we look at the market share results for the last month.
since internet explorer 9 won’t run on this os, guys attomshardware have decided to test ie8 against the top 4 web browsers.
how did your favorite web browser perform?
ie metro (aka immersive web browser) uses the 64 bit libraries by default.
after such claims, mozilla has decided to respond with the following statement: “firefox includes a broad array of technologies to eliminate or reduce security threats, from platform level features like address space randomization to internal systems like our layout frame poisoning system.
sandboxing is a useful addition to that toolbox that we are investigating, but no technology is a silver bullet.
as mentioned earlier, “ie metro (aka immersive web browser) uses the 64 bit libraries by default.”
more » after last month’s interesting results, it’s time to see how did the february turned out for your favorite web browser.
we are curious to find out, how exactly will google chrome and firefox differentiate themselves from the ie10 metro, ui wise.
it’s that time of the month again when we look at the market share  results for the last month.
it looks like more releases did not really help mozilla as firefox is going in the same direction as ie, down from 20.58% to 20.09% (0.49 point decrease).
safari remains silent, however, arstehnica contacted opera software and received the following statement, “unfortunately we can’t comment on any specifics yet, other than we are currently looking into windows 8.
and although trend favors windows 7, it does not mean that the xp users should be left behind.
tested browsers internet explorer 10 (ie10) pp5 google chrome 17 firefox 10 opera 11.60 benchmark results chrome 17 is out with a new prerendering feature designed to make your pages load faster, and both firefox and opera have also released speedy new versions since ourlast round of speed tests.
with every month passing by, google chrome is gearing  towards the #2 spot in the market and has now increased its share by 0.68  point, up from 16.90% to 17.58%.
we’re proud of our reputation on security, and it remains a central priority for firefox.”
with each update, facebook has gotten incrementally more cluttered, perplexing, and ornery—and i'm not even talking about all your annoying acquaintances flooding it with inane status updates.
more » a new google-funded study of browser security by security research firm accuvant labs crowned chrome the champion of security features, and ranked firefox below internet explorer in terms of protection available from web-borne threats.
while the iphone syncs with safari and internet explorer, it can't grab bookmarks from chrome or firefox out of the box—and most versions of android can't sync bookmarks with any browser.
stop me if you've heard this one: once upon a time, you visited a web site that you're not exactly proud of.
beta internet explorer 9 firefox 11 google chrome 18 opera 11.62 results conclusion as seen in the results above, internet explorer 9 and 10 is still in the lead, followed by opera, firefox and lastly, google chrome.
here are a few ways to get your desktop bookmarks on your smartphone without any hassle.
predictably, microsoft and mozilla have different opinions on what makes a browser secure, and why accuvant's findings are off base.
tested versions internet explorer 9 firefox 9 google chrome 16 opera 11.60 safari 5.1.2  happy new year!
that’s all for now, folks.
we invest in security throughout the development process with internal and external code reviews, constant testing and analysis of running code, and rapid response to security issues when they emerge.
despite very positive windows 7 reviews, it still remains the #2 operating system, right behind everyone’s beloved windows xp.
it looks like more releases did not really help mozilla as firefox is going in the same direction as ie, down from 20.58% to 20.09%  (0.49 point decrease).
after the previous benchmark results that tested the latest stable versions of web browsers, people expressed their interest in the beta or alpha build results as well.
more » back in 2009 we have published an article on battery life, where internet explorer 8 pretty much dominated other web browsers; now, it’s time for a rematch.
so, we've once again pitted the four most popular web browsers against each other in a battle of startup times, tab loading times, and more, with more surprising results.
so here you have it folks, switching from google chrome to ie10 alone would extend your battery life by you as much as 23 minutes.
all of this got us thinking about which browser is the most secure, and whether the security features listed in studies like this even matter to the rest of us.
well, today is your lucky day, folks.
surpassing the 20% mark, firefox has no intentions of changing the trend, down from 19.35% to 18.97%, 0.38 point decrease.
despite overall downtrend, opera has managed to rebound some of its losses and is now up by 0.11 point, all the way from 1.55% to 1.66%.
slowly edging towards the 10% market, safari’s market share has increased by a 0.01 point, up from 9.27% to 9.28%.
thanks to apple device sales, the happy days continue for the safari web browser as its share has grown from 8.35% to 8.67% (0.32 point increase).
the new twitter revamp this week has divided users and many can't get used to having their timeline on the right side of the screen.
despite overall downtrend, opera has managed to rebound  some of its losses and is now up by 0.11 point, all the way from 1.55% to 1.66%.
thanks chrome!more » mozilla announced today, the release of firefox 11, the next version of the popular web browser.
delivered by feedburner follow us on twitter @chromebrowser windows xp edition.
with every month passing by, google chrome is gearing towards the #2 spot in the market and has now increased its share by 0.68 point, up from 16.90% to 17.58%.
if this bugs you, tech weblog the how-to geek wrote a user script for chrome and firefox to put the timeline back to the left side of the screen.
by comparing top 5 web browsers battery life on a hp pavillion laptop, 7tutorials found out the following… tested web browsers internet explorer 10
let's say the content of said web site rhymes with "corn".
what’s the difference between ie10 metro and desktop?
accuvant, the us based research, firm has published a new study, which compared security features of the three most popular web browsers: internet explorer, google chrome and firefox.
although it was previously known that firefox will include a metro like ui, the team behind mozilla’s web browser only recently started the development.
already broken through the 50% barrier, internet explorer share continues the downtrend, this time it has decreased by 1.19 point, from  48.95% to 47.76%.
google™ is a trademark of google inc. all other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated.
how your favorite browser did finish the 2011 race?
web browsers happy new year!
so here you have it folks.
beta 5 opera 12 alpha
yet, at the same time, it's become a tool few of us can live without.
thanks to apple device sales, the happy days continue for the safari web browser as its share has grown from 8.35% to 8.67% (0.32 point  increase).
if facebook has you on your last nerve, here's how to fix some of its biggest annoyances in a matter of minutes—and with onlyone new addition to your browser.
more » google funded study confirms.
web browsers internet explorer 8.0.6001.18702 google chrome 18.0.1025.142m firefox 11.0 opera 11.62 (build 1347) safari 5.1.4 (7534.54.16) benchmark results startup chrome/firefox with greasemonkey: this extension adds favicons—those little icons you see in your address bar when you visit a page—to google's search results, so you can more easily see what site each link is coming from.
opera mini on the other hand has been doing well for quite  some time and saw a generous 0.36 point increase, up from 1.53% to 1.89%.
already broken through the 50% barrier, internet explorer share continues the downtrend, this time it has decreased by 1.19 point, from 48.95% to 47.76%.