not really; it seems, rather, that mozilla has been hesitant to embrace the chrome’s latest safe browsing api v2 technology, due to privacy concerns.
the company has insisted that it has been open about how the safe browsing feature works and has made the technology available to mozilla.
required fields are marked * name * email * website * copy this password: * type or paste password here: 48,423 spam comments blocked so far by spam free wordpress comment you may use these html tags and attributes:              featuring recent posts wordpress widget development by yd
“their new services communicate more information back to google about a  user’s browsing history, and we are still evaluating the merits of that  approach.”
during the tests, nss labs observed that chrome, firefox, and safari offer nearly equal protection.
not really; it seems, rather, that mozilla has been  hesitant to embrace the chrome’s latest safe browsing api v2 technology,  due to privacy concerns.
(pdf) — spends considerable time accusing google of depriving firefox and safari users of its latest malware-fighting capabilities, which lifted chrome far above the other two in the tests.
“their new services communicate more information back to google about a user’s browsing history, and we are still evaluating the merits of that approach.”
according to nss, “it’s an undocumented api call to block malware  once download begins.
google rolled out  its newest malicious-download protection in december, and it appears to help  chrome block malware downloads.
home > blog > ctrlroom > internet explorer  dominates browser security internet explorer dominates browser security by michelle on  february 8, 2012 · 4722leave a comment http%3a%2f%2fwww.blake.co.za%2finternet-explorer-dominates-browser-security%2f internet+explorer+dominates+browser+security2012-02-08+07%3a03%3a52michelle http%3a%2f%2fwww.blake.co.za%2f%3fp%3d4722 ·
the question, then, is why don’t mozilla and safari use the feature?
the report also discusses whether google is somehow to blame for firefox’s and safari’s for respective low scores.
more important, does it matter if google held out?
this api is not utilized by firefox or safari, apparently  due to lack of documentation and a proprietary format.”
“our understanding is that mozilla is still waiting for more data from google about the effectiveness of our new technology, and is considering those benefits against the limited circumstances when urls are sent to google for scanning,” google chrome senior product manager ian fette wrote on zdnet.
privacy concerns indeed appear to be playing a role in mozilla’s hesitancy to adopt google’s latest security changes.
although that should the most important take-away for security-minded it  professionals and end-users alike, the report — “did google pull a  fast one on firefox and safari users?”
“[google's safe browsing team] has made phishing and malware detection services available to our users, and these are already implemented in firefox,” johnathan nightingale, mozilla’s director of firefox engineering, told infoworld.
“[google's  safe browsing team] has made phishing and malware detection services available  to our users, and these are already implemented in firefox,” johnathan  nightingale, mozilla’s director of firefox engineering, told infoworld.
but the best protection google provides apparently ain’t that great, if nss labs’ testing is to be believed: chrome’s malware-blocking rate using google’s latest and greatest safe browsing upgrades is still a lowly 34.1 percent.
the company has insisted that it  has been open about how the safe browsing feature works and has made the  technology available to mozilla.
google rolled out its newest malicious-download protection in december, and it appears to help chrome block malware downloads.
the api works by sending google the urls for suspicious pages or executables downloads that aren’t white-listed, and neither mozilla nor safari use it.
to a degree, yes, in  that firefox and safari do rely on google’s safe browsing api for  identifying potential malware and warning users against accessing it.
this api is not utilized by firefox or safari, apparently due to lack of documentation and a proprietary format.”
source: infoworld tech author: ted samson your email address will not be published.
required fields are marked * name *
internet explorer 9 should be the go-to browser for organizations concerned about protecting machines from malicious downloads, according to a new study from nss labs: microsoft’s browser trounced rivals chrome, firefox, and safari in the security company’s more recent malware-blocking tests, a significant win considering that traditional malware remains among the most prevalent threats to users.
during the tests, nss labs observed that  chrome, firefox, and safari offer nearly equal protection.
yes, that’s better than firefox 7′s 3.6 percent block rate and safari 5′s 3.5 percent block rate, but it’s tough to imagine the average it security professional sleeping easy with machines running browsers that are just 34.1 percent effective at blocking malware.
according to nss, “it’s an undocumented api call to block malware once download begins.
the report also discusses whether google is somehow to blame for  firefox’s and safari’s for respective low scores.
to a degree, yes, in that firefox and safari do rely on google’s safe browsing api for identifying potential malware and warning users against accessing it.
source: infoworld tech tagged with: firefox • google • google chrome • internet explorer • opera • safari  •security
yes, that’s better than firefox 7′s 3.6 percent  block rate and safari 5′s 3.5 percent block rate, but it’s tough to  imagine the average it security professional sleeping easy with machines  running browsers that are just 34.1 percent effective at blocking malware.
“microsoft takes a similar approach in internet explorer that  involves sending urls to microsoft,” he added.
that’s nss labs’ conclusion: “while nss does not  recommend switching browsers based on the results of these tests alone, if you  currently have a free choice of browser, then internet explorer 9 offers the  most comprehensive protection from these particular threats.”
did google hold out?
although that should the most important take-away for security-minded it professionals and end-users alike, the report — “did google pull a fast one on firefox and safari users?”
(pdf) — spends considerable  time accusing google of depriving firefox and safari users of its latest  malware-fighting capabilities, which lifted chrome far above the other two in  the tests.
but the best protection google provides apparently ain’t that great,  if nss labs’ testing is to be believed: chrome’s malware-blocking  rate using google’s latest and greatest safe browsing upgrades is still a  lowly 34.1 percent.
however, with the technology implemented, chrome fared considerably better in blocking malware downloads over the span of the testing.
if you enjoyed this article, please consider  sharing it!
the api works by sending google the urls for  suspicious pages or executables downloads that aren’t white-listed, and  neither mozilla nor safari use it.
however, with the  technology implemented, chrome fared considerably better in blocking malware  downloads over the span of the testing.
“our understanding is that mozilla is  still waiting for more data from google about the effectiveness of our new  technology, and is considering those benefits against the limited circumstances  when urls are sent to google for scanning,” google chrome senior product  manager ian fette wrote on zdnet.
privacy concerns indeed appear to be playing a role in mozilla’s  hesitancy to adopt google’s latest security changes.
in ctrlroom, interactive  solutions internet explorer 9 should be the go-to browser for organizations  concerned about protecting machines from malicious downloads, according to a  new study from nss labs: microsoft’s browser trounced rivals chrome,  firefox, and safari in the security company’s more recent  malware-blocking tests, a significant win considering that traditional malware  remains among the most prevalent threats to users.
that’s nss labs’ conclusion: “while nss does not recommend switching browsers based on the results of these tests alone, if you currently have a free choice of browser, then internet explorer 9 offers the most comprehensive protection from these particular threats.”
thus,  they understandably should want the best protection google can provide.
“microsoft takes a similar approach in internet explorer that involves sending urls to microsoft,” he added.
that’s not so, according to google.
leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
thus, they understandably should want the best protection google can provide.