are these applications doomed to fail commercially if they don’t work “out of the box” with internet explorer?
earlier this month, we announced our partnership with erp logic—an sap channel partner and [...]
today, there are not one, but three very compatible browsers that implement web standards and compete on the basis of meeting those standards—safari, chrome and firefox.
it’s always a good idea to stand back and check your assumptions support for internet explorer has been the subject of many late-night  conversations within our product team, but it’s very clear that  we’re not the only ones wrestling with this problem.
arena provides resources, and i use my best judgment to allocate them.
i’d like to hear your thoughts.
so what do you think?
to put it another way, it is clear to me that arena can create a great  deal of customer value with new applications built around the latest web  standards, but it is not clear if the value of supporting ie will outweigh the  cost in engineering efficiency and forgone features.
our customers are forward-thinking—and so are we—so i tend to  believe that companies like arena should lead rather than follow the market,  especially when it allows us to create more value with the resources we have.
most notably, html5 and css3 have opened up a whole new world of  applications just waiting to be written.
previous webinar: tips for protecting your product through supply  chain … next tips for managing supply chain risk from global supply chain … you may also like questions about product development?
well-built software meets requirements, and it’s easy to argue  that since our market uses internet explorer, support for it is an obvious  requirement.
or is it better to continue to support the browser most commonly  used by our audience, even if it prevents or substantially delays the launch of  applications like the arena drop box and pdxviewer—both of which are  built around thehtml5 file api, a standard implemented by firefox, safari, and  chrome but not internet explorer?
ie7, ie8 and ie9 are better than ie6, but they still have a lot of issues.
younger “cloud” companies are making the decision every day to abandon internet explorer.
is the manufacturing audience receptive to products  that don’t support ie?
read more arena has been a proponent of cloud solutions for over a decade.
most notably, html5 and css3 have opened up a whole new world of applications just waiting to be written.
support for internet explorer has been the subject of many late-night conversations within our product team, but it’s very clear that we’re not the only ones wrestling with this problem.
late one night in a college architecture studio, jason lentz reached that  point when fatigue and deliriousness spark an idea so far out, it just may be  genius.
and finally, we stopped supporting version 6 of internet  explorer (ie6).
today, there are not one, but three very compatible browsers that  implement web standards and compete on the basis of meeting those  standards—safari, chrome and firefox.
and while it is still true today that  the majority of our users come to arena using internet explorer, we see more  and more willingness to try something new in exchange for improved  functionality and performance.
and since ie8 has many of the same kinds of problems that ie6 had (the common web wisdom is thatie8 is the new ie6)
the competition between browsers to support web standards is a good thing, because the standards themselves are moving forward at an increasingly rapid clip.
not only must i ensure the security and availability of our core application, i must also develop, deliver and maintain as many new and useful products and features as i can.
it’s why  we’ve dedicated our blog and the resource section of our website to  sharing best practices and tips for making better business decisions.
if you have friends who work on web software, you’re probably familiar with the frustrations of supporting ie6—and if this is a new topic to you, justrun a search for “ie bugs” to see how problematic this particular piece of software has become.
even though it is the most commonly used web browser for our audience, the case for designing outside its confines is growing more compelling by the day.
to make matters worse, microsoft has announced that ie8 is the last version of  internet explorer they will release on windows xp, so even as new versions of  ie are released, a large portion of users will be stuck using version 8.
until recently, we had to accept the bugs, weak  standards compliance and functional limitations ie imposed because so many of  our customers relied on it.
when i think about it this way, i have to question if supporting internet  explorer with our new apps is the best choice.
not only must i ensure  the security and availability of our core application, i must also develop,  deliver and maintain as many new and useful products and features as i can.
it’s been a satisfying couple of months for the arena product team.
since  arena is the only saas organization that serves manufacturing exclusively, we  need to consider our audience before making a decision.
even though it is the most commonly used  web browser for our audience, the case for designing outside its confines is  growing more compelling by the day.
read more late one night in a college architecture studio, jason lentz reached that point when fatigue and deliriousness spark an idea so far out, it just may be genius.
when i think about it this way, i have to question if supporting internet explorer with our new apps is the best choice.
or is it better to continue to support the browser most commonly used by our audience, even if it prevents or substantially delays the launch of applications like the arena drop box and pdxviewer—both of which are built around thehtml5 file api, a standard implemented by firefox, safari, and chrome but not internet explorer?
arena will once again be spending valuable  resources to make products that work with a non-compliant and outdated browser.
until recently, we had to accept the bugs, weak standards compliance and functional limitations ie imposed because so many of our customers relied on it.
there’s no question that our core application  will continue to support stock ie, but when we create new applications and  features, should we look to what we have always done or look to the future?
google has even created a free  way to give ie itself an alternative “personality” with  dramatically better standards compliance in the form ofchrome frame.
younger  “cloud” companies are making the decision every day to abandon  internet explorer.
to make matters worse, microsoft has announced that ie8 is the last version of internet explorer they will release on windows xp, so even as new versions of ie are released, a large portion of users will be stuck using version 8.
the competition between browsers to support web standards is a good thing,  because the standards themselves are moving forward at an increasingly rapid  clip.
the more cutting-edge and willing the customer base is to adopt saas solutions and other technologies, the more appealing it is to improve engineering efficiencies by abandoning stock internet explorer.
read  more erp logic—a cloud erp provider that offers real value arena has been a proponent of cloud solutions for over a decade.
for example, to make a new feature in our core application work with ie6, we must code the feature using standard html, css and javascript, and then find and fix all the places where seemingly correct code is corrupted by ie6 bugs—unfortunately, the “fix” is often to remove or compromise functionality.
internet explorer, standards and customer value by eric larkin |  posted inarena, innovation, business strategy it’s been a satisfying couple of months for the arena product team.
standing on a stool and encasing himself in a cardboard body suit,  jason unknowingly designed his first iteration of what would become [...]
meeting current needs versus preparing for the future
and finally, we stopped supporting version 6 of internet explorer (ie6).
should we embrace the most modern,  standards-compliant options and deliver new products as quickly and efficiently  as possible?
with a long history of subpar code and non-compliance with web standards, ie6 has inspired a whole class of “cross-browser” frameworks, designed to hide the many hacks and workarounds that ie6 requires to work with modern web applications.
all three of these browsers are free, easy to install, easy to write code for and are increasingly raising the bar for performance and standards compliance.
the growing acceptance of browsers like firefox and chrome and the rapid  advance of web standards is ushering in a new era of online applications.
to put it another way, it is clear to me that arena can create a great deal of customer value with new applications built around the latest web standards, but it is not clear if the value of supporting ie will outweigh the cost in engineering efficiency and forgone features.
supporting internet explorer with our new apps might seem like an obvious decision, since ie remains the dominant browser for many manufacturing companies.
read more about the author eric larkin eric is co-founder and chief technology officer of arena solutions,  overseeing product strategy, design, development and operations.
the growing acceptance of browsers like firefox and chrome and the rapid advance of web standards is ushering in a new era of online applications.
for example, to make a new feature in our core application work with ie6,  we must code the feature using standard html, css and javascript, and then find  and fix all the places where seemingly correct code is corrupted by ie6  bugs—unfortunately, the “fix” is often to remove or  compromise functionality.
and now,  by forming partnerships with like-minded cloud companies, we’ve been able  to extend the value of cloud even further.
it’s not an overstatement to say that  supporting ie6 roughly doubles our workload, leaving fewer resources available  to develop new features and improvements for our customers.
this is a difficult question for any company to answer, but it is particularly difficult for arena because manufacturing has historically used ie more than other markets.
for our new applications, i envision a future in which we don’t have to do more work and accept a degraded user experience  just to support the “stock”, non-chrome-frame-enhanced  configuration of internet explorer.
since arena is the only saas organization that serves manufacturing exclusively, we need to consider our audience before making a decision.
if you have friends who work on web software, you’re probably  familiar with the frustrations of supporting ie6—and if this is a new  topic to you, justrun a search for “ie bugs” to see how problematic  this particular piece of software has become.
this is a difficult question for any company to answer, but it is  particularly difficult for arena because manufacturing has historically used ie  more than other markets.
arena provides  resources, and i use my best judgment to allocate them.
arena will once again be spending valuable resources to make products that work with a non-compliant and outdated browser.
and  since ie8 has many of the same kinds of problems that ie6 had (the common web  wisdom is thatie8 is the new ie6)
are  these applications doomed to fail commercially if they don’t work  “out of the box” with internet explorer?
as we seek to develop fast, light-weight and modern web applications for manufacturers (while continuing to enhance and improve our core application, of course) we must confront a long-standing but still hotly debated topic in the world of saas providers—whether to support internet explorer at all.
and while it is still true today that the majority of our users come to arena using internet explorer, we see more and more willingness to try something new in exchange for improved functionality and performance.
standing on a stool and encasing himself in a cardboard body suit, jason unknowingly designed his first iteration of what would become [...]read more eric is co-founder and chief technology officer of arena solutions, overseeing product strategy, design, development and operations.
earlier this month, we announced our partnership with erp logic—an  sap channel partner and [...]
previous we know making a product is hard—and that the day-to-day challenges of making hardware products raise a lot of questions.
or will we? the case for abandoning internet explorer
google has even created a free way to give ie itself an alternative “personality” with dramatically better standards compliance in the form ofchrome frame.
we went live with the summer ’11 release of our core application.
it’s not an overstatement to say that supporting ie6 roughly doubles our workload, leaving fewer resources available to develop new features and improvements for our customers.
our customers are forward-thinking—and so are we—so i tend to believe that companies like arena should lead rather than follow the market, especially when it allows us to create more value with the resources we have.
well-built software meets requirements, and it’s easy to argue that since our market uses internet explorer, support for it is an obvious requirement.
wasted resources reduce customer value supporting internet explorer with our new apps might seem like an obvious  decision, since ie remains the dominant browser for many manufacturing  companies.
he first  realized the importance of managing product information […]read more categories
is the manufacturing audience receptive to products that don’t support ie?
there’s no question that our core application will continue to support stock ie, but when we create new applications and features, should we look to what we have always done or look to the future?
for our new applications, i envision a future in which we don’t have to do more work and accept a degraded user experience just to support the “stock”, non-chrome-frame-enhanced configuration of internet explorer.
but, as cto of arena solutions, a big part of my job is to make sure we  create as much customer value as possible with the available resources—in  this capacity, i think of myself as an agent for our customers.
we  launched several new applications includingarena partsaver, arena pdxviewer and  arena drop box.
should we embrace the most modern, standards-compliant options and deliver new products as quickly and efficiently as possible?
as we seek to develop fast,  light-weight and modern web applications for manufacturers (while continuing to  enhance and improve our core application, of course) we must confront a  long-standing but still hotly debated topic in the world of saas  providers—whether to support internet explorer at all.
with a long history of subpar  code and non-compliance with web standards, ie6 has inspired a whole class of  “cross-browser” frameworks, designed to hide the many hacks and  workarounds that ie6 requires to work with modern web applications.
as we at arena embark on the next phase of product development, the  limitations of ie6 have been top of mind.
but, as cto of arena solutions, a big part of my job is to make sure we create as much customer value as possible with the available resources—in this capacity, i think of myself as an agent for our customers.
arena’s new website puts our  best resources at your fingertips we know making a product is hard—and that the day-to-day challenges  of making hardware products raise a lot of questions.
and now, by forming partnerships with like-minded cloud companies, we’ve been able to extend the value of cloud even further.
read more the art of starting up: how lightweight tools paved the way for giant  cardboard robots
all three of these browsers are  free, easy to install, easy to write code for and are increasingly raising the  bar for performance and standards compliance.
the more cutting-edge and willing the customer base is to  adopt saas solutions and other technologies, the more appealing it is to  improve engineering efficiencies by abandoning stock internet explorer.
we launched several new applications includingarena partsaver, arena pdxviewer and arena drop box.
he first realized the importance of managing product information […]read more rt @bigbellysolar: new solar-powered trash cans are sustainable money investmenthttp://t.co/zfjiabmy via @ucsdguardian
it’s why we’ve dedicated our blog and the resource section of our website to sharing best practices and tips for making better business decisions.
as we at arena embark on the next phase of product development, the limitations of ie6 have been top of mind.