it’s quick and easy to download and try a new browser.
it also has a great collection of  extensions (like firefox add-ons) to add functionality to the browser.
much better security than ie is one attraction of firefox.
try some new  ones and see how they work for you.
beta chrome is a newer browser from google.
there are a number of fine browsers out there, but the outstanding choices are firefox and chrome.
this entry was posted in cloud and social web,  tips and tagged browsers, cloud computing, google, internet, tools.
try some new ones and see how they work for you.
and why should i use it?→ internet explorer is not the only web browser:
want to find out more?
other credible choices are safari (the apple browser) and opera.
if you’re a windows user and you’re still using internet explorer (as about 53% of users are), here’s a quick way to improve your productivity, profit, and pleasure in using the internet.
explorer (as about 53% of users are), here’s a quick way to improve your  productivity, profit, and pleasure in using the internet.
rock solid, easy to use, dependable.
firefox 3.6.9 firefox is an open source browser from the mozilla foundation.
tip of the day posted  on october 13, 2010 by daniel better browsing if you’re a windows user and you’re still using internet
the other is the tremendous collection of add-ons that firefox users can install – most for free, which add functionality ranging from blocking ads to managing bookmarks to great tools like shareaholic (which makes it easy to share web pages to facebook, twitter or any of hundreds of places on the web where you might want to share content).
the  other is the tremendous collection of add-ons that firefox users can install  – most for free, which add functionality ranging from blocking ads to  managing bookmarks to great tools like shareaholic (which makes it easy to  share web pages to facebook, twitter or any of hundreds of places on the web  where you might want to share content).
the only downside to firefox is that if you load it up with add-ons (which  you will and should) it tends to get slow.
change your browser.
as more and more of our computer time is spent online and using online applications, more and more of our time is spent in a browser.
there are a number of fine browsers out there, but the  outstanding choices are firefox and chrome.
it also has a great collection of extensions (like firefox add-ons) to add functionality to the browser.
download chrome from google don’t count out microsoft, though.
internet explorer 9 is out in beta and getting good reviews.
it is the  second most popular browser, with about 30% of the market.
as more and more of our computer time is spent online and using online  applications, more and more of our time is spent in a browser.
comments are closed.
rock solid, easy to  use, dependable.
you can easily import your bookmarks, too.
internet explorer 9 is out in beta  and getting good reviews.
download firefox from mozilla chrome 7.0.517.41
for help with browsers or any internet business tools, daniel lieberman  interactive is ready with guidance, advice and training to help your business  use the internet better.
you  can run as many browsers on your pc as you want, and you can uninstall them if  you don’t find them suitable for your purposes.
bookmark the permalink.
chrome is a newer browser from google.
this entry was posted in cloud and social web, tips and tagged browsers, cloud computing, google, internet, tools.
the only downside to firefox is that if you load it up with add-ons (which you will and should) it tends to get slow.
it is the second most popular browser, with about 30% of the market.
it’s quick and easy to  download and try a new browser.
it opens faster than other browsers and will amaze  you if you’re still using internet explorer.
other credible choices are safari (the apple browser)  and opera.
you can run as many browsers on your pc as you want, and you can uninstall them if you don’t find them suitable for your purposes.
the big attraction is speed.
for help with browsers or any internet business tools, daniel lieberman interactive is ready with guidance, advice and training to help your business use the internet better.
download chrome from google other browsers don’t count out microsoft, though.
firefox is an open source browser from the mozilla foundation.
it’s also very secure and it has a pleasant, uncluttered user interface.
download firefox from mozilla
it opens faster than other browsers and will amaze you if you’re still using internet explorer.