(not to mention better security from all of those hackers going after flaws in ie).
the new version plugs a security hole and loads much faster.
the new page opens in a second window.
no worries, simply spin your mousewheel while  holding ctrl.
9:54 pm post subject: the good people at mozilla have released an update to fastpitchwest's favorite web browser, firefox.
it loads a little slower than ie but once running, it zips along at lightning speed.
you'll see a note that they are in "beta", but i can tell you from first hand experience that it works great.
simply type the middle portion of the desired address, and press ctrl-enter.
download the free upgrade at: http://www.mozilla.org/products/firefox/ back to top fpw site admin joined: 28 nov 2003 posts: 429 location: southern california
it's much safer than internet explorer, so safe in fact that many users have reported no spyware infections since they started using the product.
a favorite trick for power internet users...
it'sfoxmarks, which permits you to sych your bookmarks, so that if you use firefox on more than one computer (work and home, or home and laptop), you can one-click your bookmarks for both.
back to top fpw site admin joined: 28 nov 2003 posts: 429 location: southern california posted: fri mar 25, 2005 9:21 am post subject: version 1.0.2 is out.
unlike ie, it's also standards compliant.
download it here: http://www.mozilla.com/ back to top fpw site admin joined: 28 nov 2003 posts: 429 location: southern california posted: fri dec 09, 2005 11:54 am post subject: and for those of you who find yourself at computers other than your own -- that don't have the firefox browser installed, now there is "portable firefox", which lets you carry it in your pocket, on your usb thumb drive or such: quote: portable firefox is a fast, full-featured web browser thats easy to use.
ctrl-t  launches a new tab (effectively a new browser window, but without all the  memory overhead of a full window).
with tabbed browsing and more free extensions than you could ever want, it offers a major upgrade in your browsing experience.
index -> tech for players and fans view previous topic ::
download portable firefox here: http://portableapps.com/apps/internet/browsers/portable_firefox back to top fpw site admin joined: 28 nov 2003 posts: 429 location: southern california posted: fri dec 16, 2005 9:30 pm post subject: if you are using the firefox browser, you may already know about "extensions", those slick little add ons for your browser that make life easier.
some say once microsoft got market dominance, they stopped working on improvements to ie.
if you type cnn and press ctrl-enter, you will go tohttp://www.cnn.com ctrl-mouse wheel spin to enlarge or shrink page font size that screen font is too small or too large for you?
our web stats do show that ie is the overwhelming choice of our readers, though there is a growing trend towards the "firefox" browser.
select a forum administrative ----------------announcementscomments & suggestions tech ----------------fastball webmasterstech for players and fans alphabet soup ----------------iscisc iinafaasaworld and national tournaments regional forums----------------beyond the westcalifornia fastpitchcanadaespañol
shift-click a link to  launch a new window with the link.
posts: 429 location: southern california posted: thu mar 03, 2005
it's a free download at: http://www.mozilla.org/products/firefox/ here is a tech article that gives you 13 reasons why firefox is better than internet explorer.
ctrl-enter to type "www...com"  quickly.
once you  are in the address bar, there is no need to type thehttp:// prefix or the www.
we won't begin to try to cover all the goodies, except to say: "click tools, extensions, and get more extensions".
or the .com domain names.
year oldest firstnewest first fastpitchwest forum forum index -> tech for players and fans all times are gmt - 7 hours page 1 of 1 jump to:
you know the drill: http://www.mozilla.org/products/firefox/ note: the latest update is a security update
firefox web browser (free) everybody uses internet explorer to surf the 'net, right?
if you have or get firefox, and need help setting up the rss feeds, email us here at fastpitchwest.
instead of lunging for your mouse,  try this slick technique for opening a new page.
[mozilla] back to top fpw site admin joined: 28 nov 2003
free agent centralthe free marketumpires (aka "house of blues") you cannot post new topics in this forum you cannot reply to topics in this forum you cannot edit your posts in this forum you cannot delete your posts in this forum you cannot vote in polls in this forum powered by phpbb © 2001, 2002 phpbb group copyright © 1998-2005 | privacy policy | contact us | site search | morning brief | mailing list | sponsors | forum | isc | isc-ii | asa | nafa | al's fastball
back to top display posts from previous: all posts1 day7 days2 weeks1 month3
back to top fpw site admin joined: 28 nov 2003 posts: 429 location: southern california posted: mon may 23, 2005 11:08 am post subject: cnet reviews six web browsers and gives firefox the gold star.
then simply overtype the  existing address.
posted: mon mar 28, 2005 6:50  pm    post subject: some "hot key" shortcuts  for you firefox browser quote: alt-d to jump  insertion point to address bar.
it's also browses faster than internet explorer and since the release of version 1.0, it's stable and reliable as well.
if you're still using internet explorer, see above.
this  enables you to read your gmail or hotmail, while searching google, and  simultaneously checking your stocks and weather reports.
netscape and safari tied for second place, and ie 6, deepnet and opera brought up the rear.
and, if you're among the many still using internet explorer, ah well, you have my sympathies.
press alt-d, and your insertion point (cursor) will jump to the address bar.
shift-click a link to launch a new window with the link.
download for free, auto-install.
if you are doing research, and wish to keep your current location while browsing another, use shift while you click on a link.
back to top fpw site admin joined: 28 nov 2003 posts: 429 location: southern california posted: mon oct 23, 2006 11:22 am post subject: firefox browser 2.0, a major upgrade has been released for free download: http://releases.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/firefox/releases/2.0/win32/en-us/ actually, the official release date is tomorrow, october 24, 2006, but you can download it now from the link above.
http://www.flexbeta.net/main/articles.php?action=show&id=32 we switched a while back and haven't looked back.
firefox is a free download, mac or pc.
if you type cnn and press  ctrl-enter, you will go tohttp://www.cnn.com ctrl-mouse wheel spin to enlarge or shrink page font size that screen font is too  small or too large for you?
on a related note, remember that you can drag and drop your favorite sites onto the firefox browser bar right below the url.
simply type the middle portion of the desired  address, and press ctrl-enter.
ctrl-enter to type "www...com" quickly.
editor's note: the newest version, 1.0.1, released after this review loads faster still.
posted: mon mar 28, 2005 6:50 pm post subject: some "hot key" shortcuts for you firefox browser quote: alt-d to jump insertion point to address bar.
better than internet explorer, and best of all, it's still free.
http://reviews.cnet.com/4520-3118_7-6226062-1.html?tag=cnetfd.sd firefox is the browser of choice for fastpitchwest, and can be downloaded for free here: http://www.mozilla.org/products/firefox/ firefox has a built in "news reader", which permits you to get rss feeds (like emails) for each new post at both the morning brief and the deuce.
it has all the same great features as regular firefox including popup-blocking, tabbed-browsing, integrated search, improved privacy features, automatic updating and more.
so you can have sites like fastpitchwest, ghfl.ca, iscfastpitch, mornng brief, the deuce and more all right there on your browser for easy access.
(click that "contact us" link at the bottom of this or any other page).
this enables you to read your gmail or hotmail, while searching google, and simultaneously checking your stocks and weather reports.
you can peruse the pages at mozilla to see what is there.
back to top fpw site admin joined: 28 nov 2003 posts: 429 location: southern california posted: thu jul 21, 2005 11:27 am post subject: newest version is now 1.0.6.
more "add-on's" (extensions, they call them) than you can count, as the open source community continues to come up with new ones nearly every day.
view next topic author message fpw site admin joined: 28 nov 2003 posts: 429 location: southern california posted: sat feb 26, 2005 9:33 am post subject:
instead of lunging for your mouse, try this slick technique for opening a new page.
among the improvements you'll notice, it loads faster.
we will take time to plug one that many of you will find handy.
posts: 429 location: southern california posted: fri mar 04, 2005 10:40 am post subject: and if you downloaded an earlier version of the firefox browser, like 0.9 beta or 1.0, be sure to download the newer version, 1.0.1.
to  launch a new tab
10:07 am post subject: an article in the wall street journal on why firefox beats microsoft's internet explorer browser: http://ptech.wsj.com/archive/ptech-20041230.html back to top fpw site admin joined: 28 nov 2003
your font size changes incrementally.
if you are doing research, and  wish to keep your current location while browsing another, use shift while you  click on a link.
press alt-d, and your  insertion point (cursor) will jump to the address bar.
(it is the official, for release version, not a beta version).
version 1.0.7 includes security and stability updates, and mozilla recommends everyone upgrade to the newest version.
posts: 429 location: southern california posted: wed nov 30, 2005 12:39 am post subject: major upgrade for the firefox web browser, from 1.07 to the latest, version 1.5.
we'd be happy to help.
if you haven't tried the "firefox" browser from mozilla.org, you're missing out on some great features missing from ie.
so if you're running an older version, be sure to update.
quite separately, the browser itself is now looking dated with most alternative products offering tabbed browsing and other productivity enhancements.
back to top fpw site admin joined: 28 nov 2003 posts: 429 location: southern california posted: tue mar 22, 2005 12:26 pm post subject: here is review written by another fan of the firefox browser: quote: internet explorer is a good browser but it has become such a target for malicious exploits that it is now a major security risk.
no, they are not a website sponsor, just a good product.
plus, it leaves no personal information behind on the machine you run it on, so you can take your favorite browser along with all your favorite bookmarks and extensions with you wherever you go.
when combined with alt-d above, this works wonders!
illinois fastpitchmidwest fastpitchmountainwest fastpitchnorthwest fastpitch southwest fastpitchwisconsin fastpitch miscellaneous----------------general
if you havent already, download the free firefox, which is also lifehackers pick of best browser for windows, mac and linux.
back to top fpw site admin joined: 28 nov 2003 posts: 429 location: southern california posted: thu sep 22, 2005
there are several excellent alternatives but mozilla firefox is the stand-out pick.
here's the link to download it: http://www.foxcloud.com/wiki/main_page
now that the new and improved firefox version 1.5 has been out for a week or two, many of the "extensions" have been updated for the new version.
well, not quite any more.
ctrl-t launches a new tab (effectively a new browser window, but without all the memory overhead of a full window).
forum index faq search memberlist usergroups register profile private messages log in firefox web browser (free) fastpitchwest forum forum
download the update here: http://www.mozilla.org/products/firefox/ firefox 1.0.7
last edited by fpw on fri mar 04, 2005 1:04 am; edited 1 time in total back to top fpw site admin joined: 28 nov 2003
once you are in the address bar, there is no need to type thehttp:// prefix or the www.
(no wonder microsoft is finally getting ready to roll over version 7 this year).
no worries, simply spin your mousewheel while holding ctrl.
firefox is an "open source" program, and therefore gets constant attention and improvements.
it installed and runs fine here.
then simply overtype the existing address.