contact information full name: e-mail address: note: we will reply to your comment at this address.
last modified on november 29,  2011.
in internet explorer 8, if some pages are not displaying correctly, you  may be able to resolve the problem by turning on compatibility view.
username: most features in oncourse work with most popular modern browsers.
available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week
in  internet explorer, clicktools and then compatibility view.
we welcome your input!
on a mac, from the firefox or safari menu, select about mozilla firefox or about safari .
notes: with the exception of safari in ios5, most mobile browsers for wireless  phones and tablets do not support creating and editing content in thewysiwyg  editor.
oncourse is regularly tested with internet explorer (windows) and firefox (windows and mac os x), and the oncourse team tries to ensure there are no serious browser-specific bugs with these applications.
for best results, use one browser  window to work in oncourse.
if your message concerns a problem receiving email, please enter an alternate email address.
for example, if you're having difficulties accessing a link  using firefox, close your browser, log into oncourse from internet explorer,  and try to open the link again.
oncourse  is regularly tested with internet explorer (windows) and firefox (windows and  mac os x), and the oncourse team tries to ensure there are no serious  browser-specific bugs with these applications.
for more, see microsoft's some web sites may not behave as expected in internet explorer.
current versions of firefox and internet explorer are available to indiana university students, faculty, and staff viaiuware.
if you continue to have difficulties, contact  your campussupport center.
uits also recommends using the most up-to-date version of your preferred browser.
my comment concerns this document your comments: (iu login required)
uits also recommends using the most up-to-date version of your preferred  browser.
during business hours, faculty can also get help  from theteaching and learning centers.
otherwise, simply use the knowledge base without logging in.
for example, if you're having difficulties accessing a link using firefox, close your browser, log into oncourse from internet explorer, and try to open the link again.
text size: to access oncourse, which web browser should i use?
uits therefore suggests using  internet explorer or firefox for the most reliable experience with oncourse.
note: to determine which browser version you're running, on a windows computer, click help, and then click about internet explorer or about mozilla firefox.
for more, see microsoft's some web  sites may not behave as expected in internet explorer.
if you are affiliated with indiana university and would like assistance with a specific computing problem, please use theask a consultant form, or contact your campussupport center.
note that new incompatibilities may be introduced when a new browser version is released; developers will work to address serious compatibility problems as quickly as possible.
some people have reported better performance with one browser than with  another; if your browser's performance is not adequate, try the same task in  another browser.
note that new  incompatibilities may be introduced when a new browser version is released;  developers will work to address serious compatibility problems as quickly as  possible.
some people have reported better performance with one browser than with another; if your browser's performance is not adequate, try the same task in another browser.
you may get unexpected results if you use two browser windows to access  the same oncourse tool at the same time.
this is  documentasxg in domains all, oncoursecl, sakai-all, and sakaiht.
if you continue to have difficulties, contact your campussupport center.
current versions of firefox and internet explorer are available to  indiana university students, faculty, and staff viaiuware.
for general suggestions regarding system requirements and connection  speed, seegeneral system and connection requirements.
uits therefore suggests using internet explorer or firefox for the most reliable experience with oncourse.
notes: toolsand then compatibility view.
skip to content login is for authorized groups (e.g., uits, ovpit, and tcc) that need access to specialized knowledge base documents.
during business hours, faculty can also get help from theteaching and learning centers.
most features in oncourse work with most popular modern browsers.
use this form to offer suggestions, corrections, and additions to the knowledge base.
note: to determine which browser version you're running,  on a windows computer, clickhelp, and then click about internet explorer or about  mozilla firefox.