the company’s research arm,  statcounter global stats finds that microsoft ie fell to 49.87% in september  followed by firefox with 31.5%.
don’t just take my word for it, read the press release from statcounter: boston & dublin–(business wire)–microsoft’s internet explorer (ie) browser has fallen below 50% of the worldwide market for the first time according to statcounter.
the rise of google chrome in north america has also been impressive and in june it overtook safari for the first time.
it also  monitors internet market share battles including search engines, social media  and operating systems including mobile.
in north america ie is still above 50% at 52.3%  followed by firefox at 27.21% and chrome at 9.87%.
firefox has a big  following
“just two years ago ie  dominated the worldwide market with 67%.”
signup for afree trial to get started.
it also monitors internet market share battles including search engines, social media and operating systems including mobile.
© copyright rhinoseo.
google’s chrome continues to increase market share at an impressive rate and has more than tripled from 3.69% in september 2009 to 11.54% in september this year.
he added that microsoft’s agreement with european commission  competition authorities to offer eu users a choice and menu of browsers from  march may have tipped ie below 50% globally.
firefox has a big following but chrome is growing in popularity at a rapid rate.
in europe, ie market share has fallen to 40.26% in september this year from 46.44% in september last year.
statcounter global stats are based on aggregate data collected by  statcounter on a sample exceeding 15 billion page views per month collected  from across the statcounter network of more than 3 million websites.
in europe, ie market share has fallen to 40.26% in september this year from  46.44% in september last year.
statcounter global stats are based on aggregate data collected by statcounter on a sample exceeding 15 billion page views per month collected from across the statcounter network of more than 3 million websites.
home | contact | rss think new creative solutions
read full release tags: browsers, ie, internet explorer posted in web browsing |
the rise of google chrome in north america has also been impressive and in  june it overtook safari for the first time.
if you just step back and try internet explorer, firefox and chrome, then no doubt you will choose firefox or chrome.
they are simply better browsers.
no  comments » signup for our newsletter
if you just  step back and try internet explorer, firefox and chrome, then no doubt you will  choose firefox or chrome.
the company’s research arm, statcounter global stats finds that microsoft ie fell to 49.87% in september followed by firefox with 31.5%.
read full release tags: browsers, ie, internet explorer posted in web browsing | no comments » 2010 is here and we are starting the year off right with version 3.0 new features in this release, improved interface, social updating, email marketing, pdf report generation.
“this is certainly a milestone in the internet browser wars,” commented aodhan cullen, ceo, statcounter.
in north america ie is still above 50% at 52.3% followed by firefox at 27.21% and chrome at 9.87%.
google’s chrome continues to increase  market share at an impressive rate and has more than tripled from 3.69% in  september 2009 to 11.54% in september this year.
don’t just take my word for it, read the press release from  statcounter: boston & dublin–(business wire)–microsoft’s internet  explorer (ie) browser has fallen below 50% of the worldwide market for the  first time according to statcounter.
statcounter, which provides free website traffic information, publishes browser stats in its statcounter global stats, a free online research tool.
microsoft’s internet explorer browser falls below 50% of worldwide  market for first time tuesday, october 5th, 2010 finally!!!
he added that microsoft’s agreement with european commission competition authorities to offer eu users a choice and menu of browsers from march may have tipped ie below 50% globally.
if you know any designers, then you know that there is a real hate towards ie, and to be honest, for good reason.
“this is certainly a milestone in the internet browser wars,”  commented aodhan cullen, ceo, statcounter.
but chrome is growing in popularity at a rapid rate.
statcounter, which provides free website traffic information, publishes browser  stats in its statcounter global stats, a free online research tool.
if you know any designers, then you know that  there is a real hate towards ie, and to be honest, for good reason.
“just two years ago ie dominated the worldwide market with 67%.”