my next thoughts were “does google have anything coming to rival this?”
the transitions between tabs are smooth and slide left and right
don’t just take my word for it, read the press release from statcounter: boston & dublin–(business wire)–microsoft’s internet explorer (ie) browser has fallen below 50% of the worldwide market for the first time according to statcounter.
they are taking this idea several steps further.
the video background loads quickly and doesn’t require any special plugins.
google released their instant search last september, bing’s really is no different in the “search previews as you type.”
most of these enhancements come from visitor behavior research.
so you don’t really feel like  you’re leaving the page you are on.
“just two years ago ie  dominated the worldwide market with 67%.”
signup for afree trial to get started.
this frees up an  other wise limited screen real estate.
no comments » come on bing – that is not very nice thursday, december 9th,  2010
it also monitors internet market share battles including search engines, social media and operating systems including mobile.
© copyright rhinoseo.
he added that microsoft’s agreement with european commission  competition authorities to offer eu users a choice and menu of browsers from  march may have tipped ie below 50% globally.
no comments » tags: funny, internet posted in web browsing | no comments » finally!!!
in europe, ie market share has fallen to 40.26% in september this year from 46.44% in september last year.
statcounter global stats are based on aggregate data collected by  statcounter on a sample exceeding 15 billion page views per month collected  from across the statcounter network of more than 3 million websites.
once you begin to scroll  down, the descriptions/captions will expand (accordion out).
in europe, ie market share has fallen to 40.26% in september this year from  46.44% in september last year.
the new bing will roll out with ie9.
looks like they don’t support the google chrome browser…
looks like they don’t support the google chrome browser… wonder why?
to accommodate this, bing will display only links at the bottom of the search results pages.
expanding links now that netbooks and handheld devices are gaining in popularity, the  screen size for many is smaller.
some of the new enhancements include: bing has already changed things up a bit by adding background images to their homepage.
if you just  step back and try internet explorer, firefox and chrome, then no doubt you will  choose firefox or chrome.
this update kind of gets lost with the other enhancements, but still helps improve their user experience.
this makes sense keeping  this information and functionality handy so you don’t have to scroll up  or down on the page to access it again after scrolling.
google’s chrome continues to increase  market share at an impressive rate and has more than tripled from 3.69% in  september 2009 to 11.54% in september this year.
quick tabs there will be quick tabs near the top of your browser just below the search  box.
check out the new bing/ie9 demo video below: what are your thoughts on the new bing/ie9?
statcounter, which provides free website traffic information, publishes browser stats in its statcounter global stats, a free online research tool.
screen transitions the new bing reminds me of how you interact with smart phones, where  screens slide smoothly and the transition is clean and automated as opposed to  how pages change currently.
monday, november 29th, 2010 posted in web browsing | no comments »
if you know any designers, then you know that there is a real hate towards ie, and to be honest, for good reason.
but chrome is growing in popularity at a rapid rate.
statcounter, which provides free website traffic information, publishes browser  stats in its statcounter global stats, a free online research tool.
if you know any designers, then you know that  there is a real hate towards ie, and to be honest, for good reason.
“just two years ago ie dominated the worldwide market with 67%.”
they’ve been paying attention to what people do and how they interact and  took this information to better enhance the user experience.
the company’s research arm,  statcounter global stats finds that microsoft ie fell to 49.87% in september  followed by firefox with 31.5%.
the rise of google chrome in north america has also been impressive and in june it overtook safari for the first time.
expanding links interactive homepage bing has already changed things up a bit by adding background images to  their homepage.
it also  monitors internet market share battles including search engines, social media  and operating systems including mobile.
if you have  html-5 enabled, you can view full-motion video backgrounds as well as zoom in  and out on static images.
in north america ie is still above 50% at 52.3%  followed by firefox at 27.21% and chrome at 9.87%.
bing has some interesting enhancements, they are clearly rolling-up their sleeves in their goal of cutting into google’s search market share.
firefox has a big  following
there is more coming, but so far it looks great!
these will be relevant to your search, so in the demo video below, when  you bing “san francisco” you’ll be presented with quick tabs  such as weather, flights, news, maps, web etc.
google’s chrome continues to increase market share at an impressive rate and has more than tripled from 3.69% in september 2009 to 11.54% in september this year.
so you don’t really feel like you’re leaving the page you are on.
firefox has a big following but chrome is growing in popularity at a rapid rate.
this update kind  of gets lost with the other enhancements, but still helps improve their user  experience.
there will be quick tabs near the top of your browser just below the search box.
after watching the demo video on the new bing coupled with ie9, my first thoughts were… “wow.”
the related searches on the left stay as well.
these tabs and the search bar will be fixed at the top of the screen, even when scrolling down on the results page.
instant search google released their instant search last september, bing’s really is  no different in the “search previews as you type.”
statcounter global stats are based on aggregate data collected by statcounter on a sample exceeding 15 billion page views per month collected from across the statcounter network of more than 3 million websites.
this makes sense keeping this information and functionality handy so you don’t have to scroll up or down on the page to access it again after scrolling.
home | contact | rss think new creative solutions
the rise of google chrome in north america has also been impressive and in  june it overtook safari for the first time.
read full release tags: browsers, ie, internet explorer posted in web browsing |
these will be relevant to your search, so in the demo video below, when you bing “san francisco” you’ll be presented with quick tabs such as weather, flights, news, maps, web etc.
if you just step back and try internet explorer, firefox and chrome, then no doubt you will choose firefox or chrome.
no comments » tags: funny posted in web browsing |
they are simply better browsers.
there is more  coming, but so far it looks great!
no  comments » signup for our newsletter
the company’s research arm, statcounter global stats finds that microsoft ie fell to 49.87% in september followed by firefox with 31.5%.
so i was logging into bing local and was brought to a screeching halt.
no comments » microsoft’s internet explorer browser falls below 50% of worldwide  market for first time tuesday, october 5th, 2010 finally!!!
read full release tags: browsers, ie, internet explorer posted in web browsing | no comments » 2010 is here and we are starting the year off right with version 3.0 new features in this release, improved interface, social updating, email marketing, pdf report generation.
“this is certainly a milestone in the internet browser wars,” commented aodhan cullen, ceo, statcounter.
in north america ie is still above 50% at 52.3% followed by firefox at 27.21% and chrome at 9.87%.
to accommodate this, bing will display  only links at the bottom of the search results pages.
these tabs and the search bar  will be fixed at the top of the screen, even when scrolling down on the results  page.
tags: bing, chrome, google posted in web browsing |
the video background loads quickly and doesn’t  require any special plugins.
don’t just take my word for it, read the press release from  statcounter: boston & dublin–(business wire)–microsoft’s internet  explorer (ie) browser has fallen below 50% of the worldwide market for the  first time according to statcounter.
the new bing reminds me of how you interact with smart phones, where screens slide smoothly and the transition is clean and automated as opposed to how pages change currently.
the transitions between  tabs are smooth and slide left and right
check out the new bing/ie9 demo video below: posted in web browsing |
they’ve been paying attention to what people do and how they interact and took this information to better enhance the user experience.
once you begin to scroll down, the descriptions/captions will expand (accordion out).
he added that microsoft’s agreement with european commission competition authorities to offer eu users a choice and menu of browsers from march may have tipped ie below 50% globally.
“this is certainly a milestone in the internet browser wars,”  commented aodhan cullen, ceo, statcounter.
posted in web browsing |
if you have html-5 enabled, you can view full-motion video backgrounds as well as zoom in and out on static images.
now that netbooks and handheld devices are gaining in popularity, the screen size for many is smaller.
this frees up an other wise limited screen real estate.
where dial-up really came from friday, november 12th, 2010 posted in web browsing |
no comments » can’t we all just get along?