tested browsers internet explorer 10 (ie10) pp5 google chrome 17 firefox 10 opera 11.60 benchmark results with the firefox 10, opera 12 and internet explorer 10 releases just around the corner, guys from tomshardware have decided to test the latest stable builds of the top 5 web browsers on both windows 7 and mac os x lion.
as google chrome 7 (dev) now includes hardware acceleration, guys from downloadsquad decided to test it along with internet explorer 9 (developers preview) and firefox 4 (beta).
want some good news?
beta 5 opera 12 alpha
v8, chrome’s javascript engine, now runs intense javascript applications faster than in the past.
maybe opera was poking fun at more than the original google ad.
benchmarks are incredibly important for influencing the direction of javascript engines.
web browsers internet explorer 8.0.6001.18702 google chrome 18.0.1025.142m firefox 11.0 opera 11.62 (build 1347) safari 5.1.4 (7534.54.16) benchmark results startup back in 2009 we have published an article on battery life, where internet explorer 8 pretty much dominated other web browsers; now, it’s time for a rematch.
beta internet explorer 9 firefox 11 google chrome 18 opera 11.62 results conclusion as seen in the results above, internet explorer 9 and 10 is still in the lead, followed by opera, firefox and lastly, google chrome.
a search function has been introduced to allow users easily find the feature they wish to change the settings for (with results updating as you type).
google chrome 7 utilized the most of the hardware resources, delivering better fps (frames per second) than internet explorer 9 or firefox 4, which took the last place.
what’s the difference between metro and desktop ie?
we’ve been constantly updating our v8 benchmark suite to force us to  get faster in areas that are important to web developers.
we’re very focused on javascript performance, so we scrutinize our  benchmark carefully to make sure that it’s as useful a measuring stick as  possible.
test262 is a test suite intended to check agreement between javascript implementations and the ecma-262 specification (currently 5th edition).
as a result, the  benchmark is less useful and has even (mis)led us to spend time making some irrelevant optimizations in chrome.
for even more details, visit the original post.
internet explorer 9 google chrome 12 firefox 5 opera 11.50 safari 5 what are the results?
well, this is no longer the case as the most recent tests now include the following: internet explorer 9 firefox 4 google chrome 10 opera 11 safari 5 now here is a new benchmark for you to talk about: power consumption.
chrome's been comfortably in the lead for quite some time now when it comes to performance, but that may be about to change withthe arrival of opera 10.6.
after the previous benchmark results that tested the latest stable versions of web browsers, people expressed their interest in the beta or alpha build results as well.
unfortunately, firefox 4 was not included.
we’ve been constantly updating our v8 benchmark suite to force us to get faster in areas that are important to web developers.
to make the benchmark more meaningful, we’ve experimented by making the race longer by running each of the tests in sunspider 50 times consecutively.
and although trend favors windows 7, it does not mean that the xp users should be left behind.
what do you think about the results?
as it turns out, browser developers are a competitive bunch.
benchmark results with the release of windows 8 consumer preview, guys at neowin have managed to benchmark the latest version of ie10, which is internet explorer 10 platform preview 5, running in both desktop and metro modes.
the following web browsers were tested: internet explorer 10 (platform preview 2) internet explorer 9 firefox 5 google chrome 13 (13.0.782.41)
while repeating a trivial test many times isn’t a great solution, it does provide an opportunity for some optimization.
we’ve fixed  bugs and added new tests forregular expressions and memory management.
sebastian's numbers were a bit closer, but opera 10.6 still won (+14%).
google chrome v8 benchmarks are incredibly important for influencing the direction of  javascript engines.
settings pages now have their own urls as well, giving users the ability to navigate straight to a particular setting.
maximum score: 377 points.
unfortunately, they did not test the final version of firefox 4.
whether or not chrome will continue to be the king of the hill with the upcoming releases of internet explorer 10, firefox 6 and opera 12, remains to be seen.
gpu accelerated video is now also a part of the new beta, reducing cpu usage for and improving battery life.
according to ie blog, when it comes to power consumption, ie9 and firefox 4 are the browsers to die for.
in case you want to test it as well, just head over to the canary builds page and seek for download link.
beta – 262 opera 11 alpha – 223 opera 10.63 – 203 safari 5.0.2 – 178 webkit r70433 – 196 conclusion
the highest recorded drop in cpu usage was 80% when using full screen mode.
thanks to nox for the tip.
despite very positive windows 7 reviews, it still remains the #2 operating system, right behind everyone’s beloved windows xp.
it is a new compilation infrastructure for google’s v8 javascript engine.
perhaps they were dropping a not-so-subtle hint about 10.6turning up the heat on chrome, so to speak... google chrome browser is a community site for users and developers of the google chrome browser.
results higher is better.
see the chart below to see how it compares with prior versions of chrome.
tomshardware has posted a nice benchmark and compared some of the most popular web browsers.
with the recent firefox and google chrome releases, tomshardware has decided to test all the competitors in both windows and mac os x operating systems.
with regards to the revamped browser settings, they now open in a tab instead of a window.
since internet explorer 9 won’t run on this os, guys attomshardware have decided to test ie8 against the top 4 web browsers.
let’s check them out.
standards conformance
it’s more than 30% faster on the sunspider suite overall and up to 4x faster on some of the individual tests.
google chrome fans will scream out of the excitement, as google has recently released the very first build of google chrome 10 with crankshaft.
as you can see from the results, ie10 has scored 99%, followed by firefox 5.0, ie9 and google chrome 13 beta.
as mentioned earlier, “ie metro (aka immersive web browser) uses the 64 bit libraries by default.”
over the past two years, javascript has gotten dramatically faster across all major browsers, particularly in areas that popular benchmarks measure.
unfortunately, the canonical version of the benchmark has not been updated to reflect all the latest changes which address at leastone important bug.
saved passwords can now be synced across numerous computers as well.
we’re posting a modified version of sunspider and the latest version  of kraken to make it easy to run the benchmarks in your own browser and compare  results.
tested web browsers internet explorer 10 (ie10) platform preview internet explorer 10 (ie10) metro platform preview google chrome 18
browsers google chrome 10.0.648.134 firefox 3.6.15 internet explorer 9 opera 11.01 (build 1190) 51 safari 5.04 (7533.20.27) startup times page load times it looks like the 64 bit version of google chrome web browser might be coming in the near future asarewefastyet.com now lists both os versions: mac os x, 32-bit mac os x, 64-bit
i put the newly-released opera 10.6 snapshot build up against both the chrome 5 beta and chrome 6 dev channel builds, and the results were pretty astounding:
sunspider was one of the first suites of tests, first appearing in 2007.
passphrases can be utilized to encrypt passwords for additional security.
judging from test results, 64 build still has a long way to go.
opera 10.6 posted a peacekeeper benchmark almost 25% higher than google chrome 6.0.408.1
beta – 80 firefox 3.6.10 – 145 firefox 4
when it comes to summarizing all the results, google chrome 12 takes the crown and is followed by ie9, firefox 5, opera and safari.
google released the newest google chrome 10 build to the beta channel yesterday, boasting progress in the form of revamped browser settings, password sync features, as well as javascript performance.
google™ is a trademark of google inc. all other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated.
ie metro (aka immersive web browser) uses the 64 bit libraries by default.
so here you have it folks, switching from google chrome to ie10 alone would extend your battery life by you as much as 23 minutes.
as a result, the benchmark is less useful and has even (mis)led us to spend time making some irrelevant optimizations in chrome.
just by using internet explorer 9 over opera 11 you can have an extra hour of the battery life on your laptop!
thanks to geek for the news tip.
delivered by feedburner follow us on twitter @chromebrowser windows xp edition.
a while back, opera 10.5 briefly snatched away the speed crown from google chrome on my system.
by comparing top 5 web browsers battery life on a hp pavillion laptop, 7tutorials found out the following… tested web browsers internet explorer 10
this  just isn’t long enough to figure out which engine is faster--a golf cart  and a tesla will finish a 10-foot race in nearly the same time.
surprised, excited or both?
that's pretty substantial, and the difference is noticeable while browsing web sites and tackling my usual daily tasks in apps like gmail, google reader, and seesmic web.
when comparing benchmark results, 64 bit version actually scored much less than the 32 bit version: 5600 points vs. 6700 points (v8 benchmark).
in rather pointless benchmark, downloadsquad has tested latest internet explorer 9 build against google chrome 6 dev.
we’ve fixed bugs and added new tests forregular expressions and memory management.
while repeating a trivial test many times isn’t a great  solution, it does provide an opportunity for some optimization.
the test suite contains thousands of individual tests, each of which tests some specific requirements of the ecmascript specification.
however, as those are not the final builds, don’t draw your conclusions yet, things might change in the future.
unfortunately, the  canonical version of the benchmark has not been updated to reflect all the  latest changes which address at leastone important bug.
today, we test five most popular web browsers to find out, who leads and who lags in thehtml5 benchmark.
google chrome browser site is not affiliated with or sponsored by google inc. google chrome browser site is built on thedrupal open source content management system.
- a runtime profiler which monitors the running system and identifies hot code, i.e., code that we spend a significant amount of the time running.
with this change, the results begin to reflect chrome’s true performance.
so here you have it folks.
how did your favorite web browser perform?
what are the results?
with the release of the internet explorer 10 platform preview 2, microsoft has decided to post results of the javascript standards test, which scores are available below.
we’re posting a modified version of sunspider and the latest version of kraken to make it easy to run the benchmarks in your own browser and compare results.
however,  as js engines get faster, benchmarks must evolve in order to keep pushing them  in the right direction.
kraken, a more modern benchmark, is in better shape.
to make the benchmark more meaningful, we’ve experimented by making  the race longer by running each of the tests in sunspider 50 times  consecutively.
even for the more relevant tests, javascript has gotten so fast that many finish in only a few milliseconds.
turns out, microsoft optimized internet explorer 9 not only for the performance but also for your wallet and productivity.
the two other widely cited js benchmarks are sunspider from apple, and kraken, a new benchmark from mozilla.
with this  change, the results begin to reflect chrome’s true performance.
it’s done a lot to help improve js engines, but many of the tests in the suite are less relevant to the web in 2011.
we’re very focused on javascript performance, so we scrutinize our benchmark carefully to make sure that it’s as useful a measuring stick as possible.
well, today is your lucky day, folks.
there’s no time to waste, so let’s dive into the results.
it’s more than 30% faster on the sunspider suite overall and up to 4x  faster on some of the individual tests.
however, as js engines get faster, benchmarks must evolve in order to keep pushing them in the right direction.
- deoptimization support which allows the optimizing compiler to be optimistic in the assumptions it makes when generating code.
google chrome 12 (12.0.742.112) safari 5.0.5 (7533.21.1) opera 11.50
to help us focus on the right things, we’re now testing the latest version of kraken built directly from mozilla’s source code repository.
according to google, crankshaft has four main components that help to achieve such performance improvements: - a base compiler which is used for all code initially.
as per our test, google chrome 8 takes the lead, followed by google chrome 7 and firefox 4
it’s done a lot to help improve js engines, but many of the tests in the  suite are less relevant to the web in 2011.
with the release of firefox 5 and opera 11.50, tomshardware took 5 most popular web browsers and compared them against each other.
to be more specific, the v8 benchmark suite indicated an improvement over the current stable release of 66%.
surprisingly or not, opera 11.50 has scored only 65%, lowest of all the web browsers.
internet explorer 8 – 32 internet explorer 9
some time ago, tomshardware has published a nice list of benchmark results for the top 5 web browsers.
opera 10.6 appears ready to reaffirm the fact that opera has every intention of competing with the big boys.
to help us focus on the right things,  we’re now testing the latest version of kraken built directly from  mozilla’s source code repository.
- an optimizing compiler which recompiles and optimizes hot code identified by the runtime profiler.
the two other widely cited js benchmarks are sunspider from apple, and  kraken, a new benchmark from mozilla.
startup time page load times javascript silverlight jsgamebench psychedelic browsing memory usage battery life conclusion conformance testing
beta 6 – 235 google chrome 7.0.517.41 – 248 google chrome 8.0.552.11
unfortunately for internet explorer 9 and 8, they are in the bottom, followed by firefox 3.6 and safari 5.
vygantas, it’s confusing and such, just give us benchmarks already.
even for the more relevant tests,  javascript has gotten so fast that many finish in only a few milliseconds.
it was previously only extensions, themes, bookmarks, and preferences that could be synced.
over the past two years, javascript has gotten dramatically  faster across all major browsers, particularly in areas that popular benchmarks  measure.
tested versions internet explorer 9 firefox 9 google chrome 16 opera 11.60 safari 5.1.2  web browser benchmarks on windows and mac os x.
however, don’t get too excited yet.
browsers internet explorer 8 internet explorer 9 firefox 3.6 firefox 4 google chrome 7 google chrome 8 opera 11 opera 10.6 safari 5 webkit
what’s the difference between ie10 metro and desktop?
this just isn’t long enough to figure out which engine is faster--a golf cart and a tesla will finish a 10-foot race in nearly the same time.