the foundation is also supported by donations and partnerships from companies such as red hat and sun microsystems, which ship the free, open-source linux operating system that rivals microsoft's windows.
if he were a superhero, you might call him mozilla man.
it's that sense of ownership and civic participation that help fuel the  success of open-source projects, said haim mendelson, professor at the stanford  graduate school of business.
open source draws upon the strength of the collective.
they have developed roughly 200 add-on features for firefox, from a program to detect fake web sites to a spoofed homeland security alert.
his reward: $500 from mozilla's bug bounty  program, a t-shirt and bragging rights.
open-source advocates criticize microsoft's lock on technology, pointing out that a new version of explorer has not been released since 2001.
"you hear a lot of tales about people having very bad online  experiences.
"our end goal is to have real choice and innovation on the  web."
if he were a  superhero, you might call him mozilla man.
in less than a day, 10,000 contributors donated $250,000.
grunt work vincent, the real-estate broker's secretary, volunteers 20 hours a week of his time rooting out bugs and documenting code for firefox, he said.
"i  will never go back to internet explorer."
their weapon of faith is firefox, a free browser created by the nonprofit mozilla foundation as an alternative to microsoft's ubiquitous internet explorer.
silicon valley's mozilla with a paid staff of 12 software developers depends on volunteers like vincent to help write code, fix software bugs and market the browser.
open-source advocates criticize microsoft's lock on technology, pointing  out that a new version of explorer has not been released since 2001.
the mozilla project began under netscape in 1998, when it publicly released  the blueprint for its navigator browser.
and that's just the beginning of their utopian  vision.
feeling "indebted" to the mozilla foundation, he pitched in.
the site also sponsored firefox launch parties the past few weeks.
he  specializes in one task many developers hate: checking the spelling of code.
"you hear a lot of tales about people having very bad online experiences.
aside from its team of 12 developers, many of whom are former netscape  employees, mozilla depends on a crew of approximately 80 programmers to do  heavy-duty coding.
the mozilla mania is part of a broader movement toward free, open-source software, in which no company owns the code.
"i will never go back to internet explorer."
not beholden to any commercial interests, developers argue they only have users' interests at heart.
to hear many of the faithful talk, their ministry stops nothing short  of changing the lives of internet users.
the upgrade, however, covers only the  browser that is used in the xp operating system and not older systems.
rob davis, who works at a public-relations company in minneapolis, switched  to firefox last summer after his explorer browser was attacked by a virus that  crashed his computer.
related information
the upgrade, however, covers only the browser that is used in the xp operating system and not older systems.
to hear many of the faithful talk, their ministry stops nothing short of changing the lives of internet users.
volunteers have formed a user and marketing community of 30,000 at spreadfirefox.com.
a british graphics artist then  sketched and illustrated it.
her brother-in-law suggested firefox — and kimball  is surfing the internet like never before, she says.
the grass-roots  marketing is done almost entirely by volunteers.
"our end goal is to have real choice and innovation on the web."
life can be better," said mitchell baker, mozilla's  president.
for its part, microsoft said it released this year a "major  upgrade" to explorer that "focused solely on security  enhancements," and reduced spyware, gary schare, director of product  management for windows said in an e-mail.
volunteers have formed a user and marketing community of 30,000 at  spreadfirefox.com.
"i was delighted to have a virus-free, innovative and useful browser for free," said davis.
although we endeavor to provide accurate and timely information, there can be no guarantee that such information is accurate as of the date it is received or that it will continue to be accurate in the future.
his biggest contribution, said vincent, is finding and reporting security bug no. 259708, which "blew away my download directory and could have deleted files on my desktop."
"i was delighted to have a virus-free, innovative and useful browser  for free," said davis.
the mozilla mania is part of a broader movement toward free, open-source  software, in which no company owns the code.
take katie kimball, a choreographer who got fed up with  pop-up ads on explorer.
vincent is one of roughly 2,000 volunteer evangelists who see their mission as freeing millions of computer users from the tyranny of internet explorer.
last year, mozilla was established as a nonprofit and aol seeded it with $2 million.
"a lot of people out there are not aware of what is possible on the  internet," said vincent.
firefox "completely changes the way you  interact with the internet."
officially released last month, firefox is converting a growing  number of internet users — and nibbling away at microsoft's dominance.
the site also sponsored firefox launch parties the past few  weeks.
related information back to latest news all information provided is of a general nature and is not intended to address the circumstances of any particular individual or entity.
a group of canadian designers  came up with the concept for the firefox logo, an orange fox with a flaming  tail curled around a globe of the world.
a british graphics artist then sketched and illustrated it.
the mozilla project began under netscape in 1998, when it publicly released the blueprint for its navigator browser.
netscape was purchased by america online, which in turn merged with time warner.
their weapon of faith is firefox, a free browser created by the nonprofit  mozilla foundation as an alternative to microsoft's ubiquitous internet  explorer.
new converts firefox owes its growing celebrity to new converts, many of whom become preachers themselves.
it's that sense of ownership and civic participation that help fuel the success of open-source projects, said haim mendelson, professor at the stanford graduate school of business.
firefox "completely changes the way you interact with the internet."
the foundation is  also supported by donations and partnerships from companies such as red hat and  sun microsystems, which ship the free, open-source linux operating system that  rivals microsoft's windows.
in fact, vincent is part of a worldwide army of mozilla men and women who  believe in freedom, progress and the inalienable right to an open-source  browser.
his experience in grass-roots organizing, most recently for moveon.org, gave him the idea to take out an ad for firefox, paid for by users.
t l anews.com information for security concerned people
her brother-in-law suggested firefox and kimball is surfing the internet like never before, she says.
he became so hooked that he personally installed it on other people's computers for them.
no one should act upon such information without appropriate professional advice after a thorough examination of the facts of the particular situation.
for its part, microsoft said it released this year a "major upgrade" to explorer that "focused solely on security enhancements," and reduced spyware, gary schare, director of product management for windows said in an e-mail.
in less than a day,  10,000 contributors donated $250,000.
not beholden  to any commercial interests, developers argue they only have users' interests  at heart.
his biggest contribution, said vincent, is finding and reporting security  bug no. 259708, which "blew away my download directory and could have  deleted files on my desktop."
"my goal is to make a better browser for others to use, to make their lives better," he said.
these programmers are employed by other technology companies  that work on mozilla projects because it benefits them.
" firefox missionaries promise an internet experience that's faster, more secure and free from pop-up ads.
aside from its team of 12 developers, many of whom are former netscape employees, mozilla depends on a crew of approximately 80 programmers to do heavy-duty coding.
the ad, a two-page spread in the new york times, ran last week.
in fact, vincent is part of a worldwide army of mozilla men and women who believe in freedom, progress and the inalienable right to an open-source browser.
grunt work vincent, the real-estate broker's secretary, volunteers 20 hours a week of  his time rooting out bugs and documenting code for firefox, he said.
now when others complain about their computers, she offers her own testimonial.
a group of canadian designers came up with the concept for the firefox logo, an orange fox with a flaming tail curled around a globe of the world.
he became so hooked that he personally installed it on  other people's computers for them.
"my goal is to make a better  browser for others to use, to make their lives better," he said.
by night, he's an online crusader protecting users  of a new internet browser from glitches and security bugs.
new converts firefox owes its growing celebrity to new converts, many of whom become  preachers themselves.
netscape was purchased by america  online, which in turn merged with time warner.
firefox heating up browser battle 20.12.2004 by day, alexander vincent is a mild-mannered secretary for a vallejo,  calif., real-estate broker.
he specializes in one task many developers hate: checking the spelling of code.
" firefox missionaries promise an internet experience that's faster, more  secure and free from pop-up ads.
now when others complain  about their computers, she offers her own testimonial.
silicon valley's mozilla — with a paid staff of 12 software developers  — depends on volunteers like vincent to help write code, fix software bugs  and market the browser.
"firefox is waking up a lot of people.
in the meantime, mozilla faithful are out proselytizing.
the grass-roots marketing is done almost entirely by volunteers.
vincent is one of roughly 2,000 volunteer evangelists who see their mission  as freeing millions of computer users from the tyranny of internet explorer.
about 1,000 or so other programmers work free.
open source draws upon the  strength of the collective.
by day, alexander vincent is a mild-mannered secretary for a vallejo, calif., real-estate broker.
his  experience in grass-roots organizing, most recently for moveon.org, gave him  the idea to take out an ad for firefox, paid for by users.
by night, he's an online crusader protecting users of a new internet browser from glitches and security bugs.
officially released last month, firefox is converting a growing number of internet users and nibbling away at microsoft's dominance.
and that's just the beginning of their utopian vision.
"it was a eureka moment for me," said kimball, who lives in south san francisco.
"a lot of people out there are not aware of what is possible on the internet," said vincent.
take katie kimball, a choreographer who got fed up with pop-up ads on explorer.
anyone can add features and fix flaws.
these programmers are employed by other technology companies that work on mozilla projects because it benefits them.
his reward: $500 from mozilla's bug bounty program, a t-shirt and bragging rights.
"it was a eureka  moment for me," said kimball, who lives in south san francisco.
they have developed roughly  200 add-on features for firefox, from a program to detect fake web sites to a  spoofed homeland security alert.
last year, mozilla was  established as a nonprofit and aol seeded it with $2 million.
rob davis, who works at a public-relations company in minneapolis, switched to firefox last summer after his explorer browser was attacked by a virus that crashed his computer.
life can be better," said mitchell baker, mozilla's president.