being a huge corporation with  shareholders’ interests as their primary concern, they have multiple  levels of bureaucracy to work through before they can releaseanything.
nobody’s going to rip me off.
thirdly, obtain the burliest antivirus and firewall software you can afford, and pay the money to keep it updated.
after the scan, there was a window that wouldn’t go away, so i just  closed the browser and checked my email.
i called the claims agent right away.
for example, if you visit facebook, it will start by blocking every script.
perhaps this is true when it comes to first-person shooters and making goofy videos, but kids don’t know everything about computers, and security is one of those areas where they generally seem to lack the fundamentals.
this nifty little program  starts you off by blocking all flash, java and javascript programs.
there are some other good plug-ins, most of which i haven’t looked at.
“the fact is  that you didn’t show, and an officer will be stopping by later today to  make the arrest.”
i’m going to put that in my report for sure.
this nifty little program starts you off by blocking all flash, java and javascript programs.
march 1, 2010 i don’t have any kids yet, but i know a few people who do.
yesterday, an envelope arrived with a check and my first assignment.
at first, the teller didn’t want to cash the check because i only had six bucks in my account, but i whined and got in her face and demanded to talk to the manager until she relented.
$2,500,000, all  for me.
comments off | computer security | tagged: adware, computer security,  facebook, firefox, internet explorer, malware, mozilla firefox, noscript,  trojan horses, virus protection | permalink posted by clint microsoft internet explorer vs. mozilla firefox: which browser  is safer? november 27, 2009 just the other day, news of a pretty major hole in internet explorer  versions 6 and 7 was made public (no word on whether or not the vulnerability  applies to version 8, which is the latest one at this time).
i threw these in the trash unopened.
being a huge corporation with shareholders’ interests as their primary concern, they have multiple levels of bureaucracy to work through before they can releaseanything.
i’m not talking about the occasional adware popup or tracking cookie—these machines are usually just crawling with malicious software.
there’s sort of an old myth that your twelve year old is always going to know more about the computer than you.
but it happens, and it seems to happen a lot.
should the  rare security vulnerability come to light, it’s fixed in record time.
secondly, learn about the various dangers yourself, and make sure you warn  your kids.
“let me see what i can do, sir,” the man said.
since this is impossible, though, make sure you’re usingfirefox with the noscript plug-in.
my name is johnny, and i had a busy day today.
since this is impossible, though, make sure  you’re usingfirefox with the noscript plug-in.
or “lol funny video” followed by a shortened url, unless someone tells him that such links lead only to malware.
plus, when i opened my web browser (internet explorer 6) and tried to visit a website, this window popped up offering a free virus scan.
there will usually be several different websites per page running scripts, so you can select whether or not you trust them.
it does sort of have that “i tell ya, the  kids today, with their facebooks and their twitters,” flavor  doesn’t it?
i left the bank with $2,700 in my pocket and headed to the nearest western union location.
they’ll probably look at you like you’re an  idiot.
the phone was ringing when i came in the door.
“that’s a cashier’s check,” i told her in no uncertain  terms.
it seemed like a strange place for a news alert, during the commercials, but whatever.
i don’t want  everybody asking me for money.
i didn’t miss on purpose.”
there was a ticker on the screen and some footage of the president, so it must be some kind government program, right?
i don’t want everybody asking me for money.
finally, consider getting your own computer or laptop that the kids aren’t allowed to eventouch, and use that one for business and banking.
if you don’t like the look of one  of the urls, simply don’t allow that site to run code, or search for it  on google to find out what it is (for example, i don’t let fastclick.net  run scripts.
join 138 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
there’s sort of an old myth that your twelve year old is always going  to know more about the computer than you.
i decided to  head home.
i ran to answer, and this  guy from the county courthouse was telling me i was going to be arrested for  not appearing for jury duty.
$2,500,000, all for me.
why did the “hacker” in question make this information public?
i got an email a couple weeks ago, and they hired me on the spot when i responded.
as you visit websites, you get to choose whether or not to allow it to run all, some, or none of the scripts embedded in the site.
there will  usually be several different websites per page running scripts, so you can  select whether or not you trust them.
however, i recently decided i’m sort of done with  always waiting for microsoft to patch browser software that has more holes than  a hunk of swiss, and made the switch to mozilla firefox.
the  firefox site has a big list of available add-ons.
comments off | computer security | tagged: computer security, firefox,  internet explorer, internet security, microsoft, microsoft internet explorer,  mozilla, mozilla firefox, noscript, web browsers | permalink posted by  clint
the firefox site has a big list of available add-ons.
i decided to head home.
by the time i was done, it was only ten o’clock.
after the scan, there was a window that wouldn’t go away, so i just closed the browser and checked my email.
they’ll probably look at you like you’re an idiot.
it turns out i was entered in the lottery up in canada, and i won!
plus, when i opened my web browser (internet  explorer 6) and tried to visit a website, this window popped up offering a free  virus scan.
there, a miracle happened.
okay, so i know more than a few.
i had made $150 for less than an hour of work!
i know many, and almost all of them have something in common: their computers are constantly being infected with viruses, trojans and other types of malware.
some people might assume he or she wants to cause widespread chaos, but i actually think it’s good to publicly post things like this.
there are a million better articles than this one about  “internet explorer vs. firefox” (just do a google search), but if  you’re ready to switch now, godownload firefox here and get the noscript  plug-in here.
the cool thing about firefox is that there are all kinds of plug-ins (or “add-ons”) available.
a whole community of programmers is constantly making improvements to it.
comments off | computer security | tagged: adware, computer security, facebook, firefox, internet explorer, malware, mozilla firefox, noscript, trojan horses, virus protection | permalink posted by clint just the other day, news of a pretty major hole in internet explorer versions 6 and 7 was made public (no word on whether or not the vulnerability applies to version 8, which is the latest one at this time).
right now, i run the latest version of firefox with a plug-in called “noscript.”
as you  visit websites, you get to choose whether or not to allow it to run all, some,  or none of the scripts embedded in the site.
i’m going to put that in my report for  sure.
i’m not going to tell anyone about it, though.
no kid is going to be able to resist “lol is this you?”
the mail had arrived, but it was nothing but a pile of credit card offers.
join 138 other followers theme: contempt by vault9.
i ran to answer, and this guy from the county courthouse was telling me i was going to be arrested for not appearing for jury duty.
i was entered in the lottery up in canada, and i won!
i know many, and almost all of them have  something in common: their computers are constantly being infected with  viruses, trojans and other types of malware.
there are more holes in that browser than a hunk of swiss.
no internet explorer!
for one thing, firefox is “open source” software.
i suppose you could try to limit your kids’ access to the  internet, but you could also try to wrestle a grizzly bear while you’re  at it.
ask them sometime; “is it even possible that you might run into a virus on the internet?”
this is vital anyway, but if you’ve got kids clicking a mile a minute on facebook and twitter, you really need to take maximum precautions.
microsoft is at a disadvantage here.
i’m not saying microsoft couldn’t release a great  browser right out of the box, i just think that with their deadlines and the  need to think about profitability above all else, they tend to rush releases  before everything is ready.
should the rare security vulnerability come to light, it’s fixed in record time.
if you suspect identity theft about regional a fictional story about a guy who did everything wrong one day october 7, 2010
i can’t really give you the tech-head reasons why i feel firefox is  the better, safer browser (mostly because i’m not much of a tech-head),  but a large portion of the internet-savvy population agrees that it’s the  way to go.
secondly, learn about the various dangers yourself, and make sure you warn your kids.
there was  a ticker on the screen and some footage of the president, so it must  be some kind government program, right?
“that doesn’t matter,” he replied.
you’ve got to educate  your kids about malicious software, because a keylogger doesn’t care who  downloads itself; it’s going to send login and password information,  whether it’s to a facebook profile (bad news) or your financial accounts  (worse).
i headed to my bank around nine.
3 comments | general scams | tagged: credit card, fraud, identity theft, internet explorer, jury duty scams, lottery scams, malware, mystery shopper scams, scams, scareware, secret shopper scams, social security number, western union | permalink posted by clint i don’t have any kids yet, but i know a few people who do.
it seemed like a  strange place for a news alert, during the commercials, but whatever.
there are some other good plug-ins, most of which i haven’t looked  at.
i don’t know, but i know it’s important to get your kids hip to the dangers of malware as soon as you can.
after all, with two-and-a-half million, i’m going to be pretty much set for life.
okay, does this post officially put me in the “old person complaining  about young people” camp?
i had made $150 for  less than an hour of work!
first, if you’ve got kids using the internet, try to keep an eye on them at least some of the time.
it was a little annoying the way he  wouldn’t leave me alone.
i gave him my name, date of birth, social security number and some credit card information to pay the fine.
i went to the computer to write up my report for the secret shopping  job.
some people might assume he or she wants to cause widespread chaos, but i  actually think it’s good to publicly post things like this.
blog at wordpress.com.
i suppose you could try to limit your kids’ access to the internet, but you could also try to wrestle a grizzly bear while you’re at it.
at least your accounts will be safe(r), assuming you’re taking the necessary precautions on this computer as well.
i think i may retire from secret shopping.
the  software that came with my computer doesn’t even work!
“but i never got a letter that said anything about jury duty,”  i said.
i went to the computer to write up my report for the secret shopping job.
however, i recently decided i’m sort of done with always waiting for microsoft to patch browser software that has more holes than a hunk of swiss, and made the switch to mozilla firefox.
3 comments | general scams | tagged: credit card, fraud, identity theft,  internet explorer, jury duty scams, lottery scams, malware, mystery shopper  scams, scams, scareware, secret shopper scams, social security number, western  union | permalink posted by clint online security: teach your children well.
“but i never got a letter that said anything about jury duty,” i said.
the software that came with my computer doesn’t even work!
the cool thing about firefox is that there are all kinds of plug-ins (or  “add-ons”) available.
ask  them sometime; “is it even possible that you might run into a virus on  the internet?”
perhaps this is true when it comes to  first-person shooters and making goofy videos, but kids don’t know  everything about computers, and security is one of those areas where they  generally seem to lack the fundamentals.
i gave him my name, date of birth, social security number and some  credit card information to pay the fine.
the guy there kept asking me questions about the money i was  wiring, so i finally told him it was for a relative in canada, just like the  secret shopping company told me to do.
can you spot them all?
at least your accounts will be safe(r), assuming you’re taking  the necessary precautions on this computer as well.
right now, i run the latest version of  firefox with a plug-in called “noscript.”
it came with this virus protection software, but the only thing it’s done for the past two years is tell me my subscription is expired.
comments off | computer security | tagged: computer security, firefox, internet explorer, internet security, microsoft, microsoft internet explorer, mozilla, mozilla firefox, noscript, web browsers | permalink posted by clint enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
“but…isn’t there some way i could just do jury duty  another time?
i’m sure even a simple security patch is met with  resistance—”this will mean publicly admitting a weakness, which  could hurt share prices!”
it gave some phone number you could call to get your debts  eliminated.
then you can select “allow facebook.com” to run scripts.
i don’t know, but i know it’s important to get your kids hip to  the dangers of malware as soon as you can.
i left the bank with $2,700 in my pocket and headed to the nearest western  union location.
i was relieved when i hung up the  phone.
the guy there kept asking me questions about the money i was wiring, so i finally told him it was for a relative in canada, just like the secret shopping company told me to do.
thisforces microsoft to come up with a patch for the problem as soon as possible.
after a minute on hold, he told me i could just pay a fine and the whole thing would be taken care of.
good luck with that one.
your own financial security may  depend on it.
it does sort of have that “i tell ya, the kids today, with their facebooks and their twitters,” flavor doesn’t it?
it was a little annoying the way he wouldn’t leave me alone.
some block pop-ups, some probably don’t work too great at all.
i was relieved when i hung up the phone.
“but…isn’t there some way i could just do jury duty another time?
or “lol funny video” followed by a shortened url,  unless someone tells him that such links lead only to malware.
at first, the teller didn’t want to  cash the check because i only had six bucks in my account, but i whined and got  in her face and demanded to talk to the manager until she relented.
it turns out there are some taxes and fees i have to pay first, but that’s okay—they’re going to mail me a check.
it gave some phone number you could call to get your debts eliminated.
there are a million better articles than this one about “internet explorer vs. firefox” (just do a google search), but if you’re ready to switch now, godownload firefox here and get the noscript plug-in here.
this is vital anyway, but if  you’ve got kids clicking a mile a minute on facebook and twitter, you  really need to take maximum precautions.
okay, does this post officially put me in the “old person complaining about young people” camp?
your own financial security may depend on it.
if you don’t like the look of one of the urls, simply don’t allow that site to run code, or search for it on google to find out what it is (for example, i don’t let fastclick.net run scripts.
it came with this virus protection software, but the  only thing it’s done for the past two years is tell me my subscription is  expired.
it turns out there are some taxes  and fees i have to pay first, but that’s okay—they’re going  to mail me a check.
i got  an email a couple weeks ago, and they hired me on the spot when i responded.
after a minute  on hold, he told me i could just pay a fine and the whole thing would be taken  care of.
thirdly, obtain the burliest antivirus and firewall software
“that’s a cashier’s check,” i told her in no uncertain terms.
“the fact is that you didn’t show, and an officer will be stopping by later today to make the arrest.”
i clicked “ok” and it found like ten infections.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.
a whole  community of programmers is constantly making improvements to it.
“those are the same as cash.”
after all, with  two-and-a-half million, i’m going to be pretty much set for life.
it was mostly talk shows at that time of morning, but there was a news broadcast between commercials that caught my eye.
i’m not talking about the  occasional adware popup or tracking cookie—these machines are usually  just crawling with malicious software.
i sat down on the sofa to unwind with some tv.
i’m not saying microsoft couldn’t release a great browser right out of the box, i just think that with their deadlines and the need to think about profitability above all else, they tend to rush releases before everything is ready.
i could get used to this lifestyle.
i’m sure even a simple security patch is met with resistance—”this will mean publicly admitting a weakness, which could hurt share prices!”
i woke up around eight because i had a new job as a secret shopper.
can  you spot them all?
no kid is going to be able to resist “lol is this  you?”
finally, consider getting your own computer or laptop that the kids  aren’t allowed to eventouch, and use that one for business and  banking.
you’ve got to educate your kids about malicious software, because a keylogger doesn’t care who downloads itself; it’s going to send login and password information, whether it’s to a facebook profile (bad news) or your financial accounts (worse).
i can’t really give you the tech-head reasons why i feel firefox is the better, safer browser (mostly because i’m not much of a tech-head), but a large portion of the internet-savvy population agrees that it’s the way to go.
i have a lot of debt, so i wrote down the number.
it was mostly talk shows at  that time of morning, but there was a news broadcast between commercials that  caught my eye.
you can  afford, and pay the money to keep it updated.
my name is johnny, and i made at least ten mistakes today, if not more.
first, if you’ve got kids using the internet, try to keep an eye on  them at least some of the time.
of course, they’re invincible, too.