roger capriotti, group product manager for internet explorer, explained  this technology.
"for internet explorer 9 beta we've built  a fast browser with hardware acceleration we completely rewrote the javascript  engine so it's the fastest.
safari detected 11 percent and chrome detected 6 percent.
for full details on the results of this  test visit thenss labs web site.
nss labs put six browsers to the test using  real-world threats and found thatinternet explorer 9 beta offers vastly more  protection than the rest.
"ninety percent of downloads involve a small set of files  with established reputations," said capriotti.
jeb haber, principal program manager lead for internet explorer security, did point out that the number of malware-hosting sites is vastly greater than the number of active phishing sites.
in recognition of the prevalence of this threat, vector modernbrowsers include built-in filters to protect users.
roger capriotti, group product manager for internet explorer, explained this technology.
safari in particular had trouble communicating with the service, which partially explains the differences.
"for internet explorer 9 beta we've built a fast browser with hardware acceleration we completely rewrote the javascript engine so it's the fastest.
nss labs: internet explorer 9 offers best protection nss labs: internet explorer 9 offers best protection
"we're  very focused on the best browsing experience for billions of windows  customers," said capriotti.
many of those internet-based attacks involve social engineering, tricking users into initiating or permitting a malicious download.
they also uniformly scored lower than their  own performance in the previous round of testing.
many of those internet-based attacks involve social engineering,  tricking users into initiating or permitting a malicious download.
the application reputation system  identifies risky unknown downloads and advises the user to delete them.
in 11 days of 24/7 testing, nss labs identified over 8,000 potential threats, whittled that list down to about 1,200 confirmed threats, and further culled the list to about 600 to ensure a representative mix.
microsoft's capriotti said this built-in protection against malicious sites  is just one component of the coming internet explorer 9 experience.
"we're very focused on the best browsing experience for billions of windows customers," said capriotti.
surprisingly, the majority of third-party antiphishing  products can't do better than the browser's built-in protection.
1996-2012 ziff davis, inc.
they also uniformly scored lower than their own performance in the previous round of testing.
and fully 50 percent of them are new every day."
and we offer a new, clean streamlined user  interface, with a more interactive and immersive experience."
use of this site is governed by our terms of use and privacy policy .copyright
for full details on the results of this test visit thenss labs web site.
firefox detected 19 percent  of the threats, down from 29 percent.
opera turned in a perfect zero; it did not detect any of  the socially engineered malware samples.
internet explorer 9 achieved an outstanding 99 percent blocking rate, 5 percent of which was accomplished by the browser's new application reputation system.
"the remaining 10 percent is super interesting.
symantec's norton insight feature has a similar function.
internet explorer 9 achieved an outstanding 99 percent blocking rate, 5  percent of which was accomplished by the browser's new application reputation  system.
the same technology that blocks malware sites also protects against  fraudulent (phishing) sites.
internet explorer  8 blocked an impressive 90 percent of the threats, an even better showing than  in theprevious run of this test earlier in 2010.
internet explorer 8 blocked an impressive 90 percent of the threats, an even better showing than in theprevious run of this test earlier in 2010.
pc magazine is a registered trademark of ziff davis, inc.
in fact, 25 to 30 percent of these unknowns are later identified as malware.
in fact,  25 to 30 percent of these unknowns are later identified as malware.
however, rick moy, president of nss labs, said that his tests haven't shown symantec's technology to be as effective.
however, rick moy, president of nss labs, said  that his tests haven't shown symantec's technology to be as effective.
in past years we also used firefox for comparison, but its phishing detection rate declined to the point where it was no longer useful.
naturally it includes all the malware.
pcmag's antiphishing testing uses internet explorer  as a touchstone.
the other browsers in the test, chrome, firefox, opera, and safari, scored much lower than internet explorer.
reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of ziff davis, inc. is prohibited.
by neil j. rubenking december 14, 2010 12:43pm est comments tweet
microsoft's capriotti said this built-in protection against malicious sites is just one component of the coming internet explorer 9 experience.
nss labs put six browsers to the test using real-world threats and found thatinternet explorer 9 beta offers vastly more protection than the rest.
firefox detected 19 percent of the threats, down from 29 percent.
chrome, firefox, and safari all rely on google's safe browsing service to identify malicious sites.
the other browsers in the test, chrome, firefox, opera, and safari, scored  much lower than internet explorer.
in 11 days of 24/7 testing, nss labs identified over 8,000 potential  threats, whittled that list down to about 1,200 confirmed threats, and further  culled the list to about 600 to ensure a representative mix.
and fully  50 percent of them are new every day."
the same technology that blocks malware sites also protects against fraudulent (phishing) sites.
according to statistics from trend micro, at present 53 percent of malware attacks come directly from the internet, compared with just 12 percent via e-mail.
curiously, nss labs found that despite using the same  service, the three products had significantly different overall detection  rates.
chrome, firefox, and safari all rely on google's safe browsing service to  identify malicious sites.
according to statistics from trend micro, at present 53 percent of malware  attacks come directly from the internet, compared with just 12 percent via  e-mail.
"the remaining 10  percent is super interesting.
jeb haber, principal program  manager lead for internet explorer security, did point out that the number of  malware-hosting sites is vastly greater than the number of active phishing  sites.
put simply, it identifies files that are not known to symantec, that are very new, and that are very uncommon as dangerous.
put simply, it  identifies files that are not known to symantec, that are very new, and that  are very uncommon as dangerous.
safari detected 11 percent and chrome  detected 6 percent.
"ninety percent of downloads involve a small set of files with established reputations," said capriotti.
and we offer a new, clean streamlined user interface, with a more interactive and immersive experience."
pcmag's antiphishing testing uses internet explorer as a touchstone.
opera turned in a perfect zero; it did not detect any of the socially engineered malware samples.
curiously, nss labs found that despite using the same service, the three products had significantly different overall detection rates.
the application reputation system identifies risky unknown downloads and advises the user to delete them.
in past years  we also used firefox for comparison, but its phishing detection rate declined  to the point where it was no longer useful.
safari in particular had trouble communicating with the service, which  partially explains the differences.
surprisingly, the majority of third-party antiphishing products can't do better than the browser's built-in protection.
in  recognition of the prevalence of this threat, vector modernbrowsers include  built-in filters to protect users.