the phishing filter will compare the web site against a microsoft-maintained database of known phishing sites and alert the user if the web site might be a phishing threat.
clicking the 'x' at the upper right closes all of the tabs at once.
with tabbed browsing, new browser windows result in new tabs on the existing ie  window rather than opening separate instances or windows of ie.
but, with security concerns and competing browsers eating away at microsoft's web browser market share, they decided to separate out ie from the windows upgrade and release it on its own.
a part of the new york times company.
acid test: microsoft has acknowledged that ie7 will not pass the  acid2 test.
but, with security concerns and competing browsers eating away at  microsoft's web browser market share, they decided to separate out ie from the  windows upgrade and release it on its own.
internet explorer is often the source of  vulnerabilities that are exploited for a variety of malicious reasons.
new features: ie7 is full of "new" features, or at least features that are new to ie.
rss feeds: ie7 includes the ability to view rss feeds from within the browser.
beta - most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
rss feeds: ie7 includes the ability to view rss feeds from within  the browser.
acid test: microsoft has acknowledged that ie7 will not pass the acid2 test.
beta version: microsoft did  not intend to release a new version of internet explorer (ie) until the release  of longhorn, a major upgrade to the windows operating system due out in late  2006 (microsoft recently announced that the official name will be windows  vista).
by category - change default password - free packet sniffer software - change default ssid - use 'run as' option - transfer windows xp activation - security 101 - basic security - wireless security - web browser security - email and phishing security - pop-ups and spyware - security advisories - virus and malware security - advanced security - information resources - tools & utilities - product and book reviews internet / network security - about.com - computing & technology - internet / network security - web browser security - first look at internet explorer 7
to the right of the address bar, a yellow box with a shield and the message "suspicious website" appeared.
other features such as the search box next to the address bar, and  support for viewing rss feeds are also great, but they are already present in  most competing browsers as well.
with tabbed browsing, new browser windows result in new tabs on the existing ie window rather than opening separate instances or windows of ie.
this is a first look at ie7 based on  the beta version.
my thoughts on ie7 beta: the installation went fine and the browser  itself seems to work as advertised.
internet explorer is often the source of vulnerabilities that are exploited for a variety of malicious reasons.
more ie7 beta news - next explorer to fail acid test - internet explorer 7
one of the most talked about additions, tabbed browsing, has been available in products likefirefox, opera and others for some time.
phishing filter: i intentionally visited a phishing scam site aimed  at ebay users to test out the phishing filter functionality.
my thoughts on ie7 beta: the installation went fine and the browser itself seems to work as advertised.
recommendations including css1 (cascading style sheets), html4 and png  (portable network graphics).
shutting down the tabbed browsing,  notifying users of rss feeds and alerting users about potential phishing sites  should all be modified to be more visible and draw more attention from the user.
one of the most talked about additions, tabbed  browsing, has been available in products likefirefox, opera and others for some  time.
these restrictions should prevent many phishing and spoofing attacks.
i think a  warning box notifying the user thatall tabs in that instance will be  closed and asking for confirmation would be helpful.
perhaps an actual alert box or pop-up that would draw more attention would work better?
perhaps it depends on the version of rss used?
but, we'll keep an eye on  it until the finished product arrives.
with  ie7, microsoft will append the orginating domain name to any scripts that are  executed and restrict the ability of the browser to interact with domains  outside of the domain you intend to visit.
there are many projected features, small and large, which didn't make this  beta, which makes it seem not quite like a beta test.
it should be noted that the other major browsers such as firefox, opera  and safari also fall short of passing the complete acid2 test.
now what? - facebook security - how to stay safe - wireless hacker secrets revealed - google+ privacy and security settings - protect yourself against clickjacking
it worked on some sites, but not others, most notably my own about.com internet / network security site.
ie7 displayed the actual url of the spoof site in the address bar and the url that ithought i was visiting was displayed in a box at the top of the window.
it worked on some sites,  but not others, most notably my own about.com internet / network security site.
acid2 was created by the web standards project to validate a web  browser's compliance with support for w3c (world wide web consortium)
tabbed browsing: tabbed browsing is a personal preference thing.
improved security: security is one of the main drivers behind the  accelerated release of ie7.
with ie7, microsoft will append the orginating domain name to any scripts that are executed and restrict the ability of the browser to interact with domains outside of the domain you intend to visit.
it should be noted that the other major browsers such as firefox, opera and safari also fall short of passing the complete acid2 test.
shutting down the tabbed browsing, notifying users of rss feeds and alerting users about potential phishing sites should all be modified to be more visible and draw more attention from the user.
beta: a first look - ie7 beta: improved security, resembles firefox netsecurity articles - profile: firefox web browser - configure internet explorer security - disable active scripting in ie netsecurity book reviews related articles - web site privacy with p3p - windows xp professional security - silence on the wire - 2008
more ie7 beta news next explorer to fail acid test internet explorer 7 beta: a first look ie7 beta: improved security, resembles firefox netsecurity articles
there are many projected features, small and large, which didn't make this beta, which makes it seem not quite like a beta test.
new features: ie7 is full of "new" features, or at least  features that are new to ie.
beta explore internet / network security must reads most popular - i've been hacked!
perhaps an actual alert box or pop-up that  would draw more attention would work better?
i think a warning box notifying the user thatall tabs in that instance will be closed and asking for confirmation would be helpful.
to the right of the address bar, a yellow box with a shield and the  message "suspicious website" appeared.
from tony bradley, cissp-issap, former about.com guide filed in: web browser security microsoft releases internet explorer 7
acid2 was created by the web standards project to validate a web browser's compliance with support for w3c (world wide web consortium) recommendations including css1 (cascading style sheets), html4 and png (portable network graphics).
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
other features such as the search box next to the address bar, and support for viewing rss feeds are also great, but they are already present in most competing browsers as well.
no phishing: microsoft is including a phishing filter feature (say  that 10 times fast) which can be enabled or disabled by the user.
it worked, but could go unseen.
the phishing  filter will compare the web site against a microsoft-maintained database of  known phishing sites and alert the user if the web site might be a phishing  threat.
ie7 displayed the actual url of the spoof site in the address bar and the  url that ithought i was visiting was displayed in a box at the top of  the window.
these restrictions should prevent  many phishing and spoofing attacks.
if you were looking for ie7 to innovate or set  the bar for competition, you will be disappointed.
if you were looking for ie7 to innovate or set the bar for competition, you will be disappointed.
there is a little icon in the toolbar which remains grayed out on sites with no rss content, but, when you visit a site which includes rss feeds, the icon changes to red and clicking it reveals the rss feed information from that site.
no phishing: microsoft is including a phishing filter feature (say that 10 times fast) which can be enabled or disabled by the user.
about web browsers awards - best beta browser internet explorer 8 - in... - full review: secure ie 2003 - how to design a css web site for both firefox and internet explorer - internet explorer 7 download - ie7 - free microsoft internet explorer 7 dow... - review: firefox browser 3.0 related searches internet explorer 7 new version of internet explorer web browser market phishing filter version microsoft internet explorer 7
it seems a little hit-or-miss right now.
but, we'll keep an eye on it until the finished product arrives.
there is a little icon in the toolbar which remains grayed out on  sites with no rss content, but, when you visit a site which includes rss feeds,  the icon changes to red and clicking it reveals the rss feed information from  that site.
this is a first look at ie7 based on the beta version.
- about.com - computing & technology - internet / network security internet / network security search - network security - cybercrime - secure win/mac - social/mobile discuss in my forum internet explorer 7
phishing filter: i intentionally visited a phishing scam site aimed at ebay users to test out the phishing filter functionality.
improved security: security is one of the main drivers behind the accelerated release of ie7.
beta version: microsoft did not intend to release a new version of internet explorer (ie) until the release of longhorn, a major upgrade to the windows operating system due out in late 2006 (microsoft recently announced that the official name will be windows vista).
from tony bradley, cissp-issap, former about.com guide filed in: - web browser security microsoft releases internet explorer 7
that makes for a cleaner start bar, but it takes some getting used to.