but once i got it going, i was really impressed.
after my good experience with firefox, i also tried out thunderbird and sunbird.http://www.mozilla.org/products/. thunderbird is a mail client while sunbird is a calendar application.
mozilla firefox hopes to compete with the ie giant and win!
what more can you ask for?
after my good experience with firefox, i also tried out thunderbird  and sunbird.http://www.mozilla.org/products/. thunderbird is a mail client  while sunbird is a calendar application.
supporting firefox just seems to be the cool thing to do".
browser  compatibility is of course a bigger concern now as your app will have to work  at least on ie, netscape and firefox.
but once i got  it going, i was really impressed.
like the java  ide platforms eclipse and netbeans, firefox also has this concept of  extensions.
a long time ago internet explorer had a competitor.
to know how you can support firefox, check spreadfirefox.com.
netscape’s share dropped sharply  and although opera is a very good browser it never became a serious ie  competitor.
jeremy geelan editor-in-chief, sys-con.com group publisher, sys-con media http://sys-con.com email: jeremy@sys-con.com just download an extension for mouse gestures, then: http://update.mozilla.org/extensions/showlist.php?category=mouse%20gestures :grin without a doubt the single most useful feature of opera for me is mouse gestures.
nov  07 firefox lessons for the java world
the firefox browser is growing at a rapid pace and is consistently pulling market share from ie.
opera is an awesome browser
browser compatibility is of course a bigger concern now as your app will have to work at least on ie, netscape and firefox.
i did not really believe that firefox was so good that it could kill ie.
some of the features mozilla has are capturing html form data and re-fill from the memory, a user friendly password manager and a very effective popup blocker for the nasty popups.
before firefox i was using the heavyweigt mozilla and i have a hang of it.
almost everybody who loves open  source hates microsoft and so firefox is just serving as a medium to get back  at microsoft.
what more can you ask for?
firefox has all that you need.
about 8% of all hits are coming from firefox.
sunbird is still in an experimental stage but once it get ready  for production and integrates well with thunderbird, sunbird and thunderbird  together should be a super combination that can not only match outlook express  but also give outlook a run for its money.
friendly happy to use it.
he holds a masters in computer management and is a sun certified programmer for the java2 platform.
outlook express and outlook better watch out.
almost everybody who loves open source hates microsoft and so firefox is just serving as a medium to get back at microsoft.
new 1.5 is excellent speed and user
until firefox supports opera like mouse gestures i’m not moving.
i love the [b]tabbed browsing[/b] feature.
the community support for firefox is exceptional.
obscure sites are  flashing spread firefox banners and blogs across sections have only good things  to say about firefox.
firefox  is fast, the interface is clean and actually i can’t think of any  significant negatives.
i still use ie and opera but firefox is now my preferred  browser.
outlook express and outlook
the users have  to relate with the product and promote it as if it was their own creation.
so what does this mean for the java developer community?
like the java ide platforms eclipse and netbeans, firefox also has this concept of extensions.
its true that java has survived and competed well with microsoft for many  years now but for it to continue to thrive and compete, it also needs to learn  from success stories like the firefox one.
to know how you can support firefox, check  spreadfirefox.com.
anyway, who is going to buy opera if they have a free open source  and cross platform alternative to ie.
firefox 1.0 releases on the 9th of nov!
sunbird is still in an experimental stage but once it get ready for production and integrates well with thunderbird, sunbird and thunderbird together should be a super combination that can not only match outlook express but also give outlook a run for its money.
so firefox is all set for some fireworks now:)
linux already did that in the os space and firefox is now doing it in the browser space.
(if only the free version was ad free) and i hope it becomes completely free  very soon.
we do this from time to time when we stumble over a good blog.
on noticing this widespread firefox support across the open source community, my initial reaction was "ok.
check this report:  internet explorer losing market  share indicthreads.com has already got requests from 9 different versions of  firefox.
firefox is fast, the interface is clean and actually i can’t think of any significant negatives.
the users have to relate with the product and promote it as if it was their own creation.
however over the past  few years, it has been ie all the way.
anyway, who is going to buy opera if they have a free open source and cross platform alternative to ie.
i still use ie and opera but firefox is now my preferred browser.
obscure sites are flashing spread firefox banners and blogs across sections have only good things to say about firefox.
netscape’s share dropped sharply and although opera is a very good browser it never became a serious ie competitor.
however over the past few years, it has been ie all the way.
opera is an awesome browser (if only the free version was ad free) and i hope it becomes completely free very soon.
the firefox browser is growing at a rapid pace and is consistently pulling  market share from ie.
can java do a firefox and grab even  more market share from microsoft in the application development space?
but not just that because it also shows  the java community that it is possible to compete with microsoft even without a  big company name behind the product or a big marketing budget.
supporting firefox just seems to be the cool thing to  do".
on noticing this widespread firefox support across the open source  community, my initial reaction was "ok.
to download firefox follow this link >>
unlike many open source s/w, the installation is also very simple.
firefox has virtually taken all the goods of mozilla and re-architechured its look and feel very close to ie to address a larger user-base.
i did not really believe that firefox was so good that it could  kill ie.
i feel a little sorry for opera because if opera had become totally  free (no ads) and had the community support that firefox is getting today it  could have been as big as firefox long time back.
its true that java has survived and competed well with microsoft for many years now but for it to continue to thrive and compete, it also needs to learn from success stories like the firefox one.
but not just that because it also shows the java community that it is possible to compete with microsoft even without a big company name behind the product or a big marketing budget.
that’s why i was a little slow to check out firefox.
wait for a few days before you download firefox.
linux already did that in the os space and firefox is now doing it in the  browser space.
can java do a firefox and grab even more market share from microsoft in the application development space?
checkhttps://update.mozilla.org/extensions/. this means that  new functionality will get added at a pace that microsoft cannot match.
harshad, may we reprint your excellent blog entry at sys-con.com/java, with your byline of course – and a brief author bio, if you could ping one over to me (or we could just use this: … harshad oak, formerly with i-flex solutions (pune, india), has now moved to cognizant technology solutions (pune, india).
check this report: internet explorer losing market share indicthreads.com has already got requests from 9 different versions of firefox.
his primary area of expertise is web application development using mvc pattern based java frameworks, jsp, servlets, ejb, xml, xsl, and wireless application protocol (wap) based development.
unlike many open source s/w, the installation is also  very simple.
checkhttps://update.mozilla.org/extensions/. this means that new functionality will get added at a pace that microsoft cannot match.
i feel a little sorry for opera because if opera had become totally free (no ads) and had the community support that firefox is getting today it could have been as big as firefox long time back.