download the firefox add-onthis internet exploror accelerator will work on firefox too - just download the add-on!
accelerator for internet explorer 8 & firefox translates full web pages and highlighted text in internet explorer 8 & firefox translate english text into 11 languages.
english español (américa latina) - home - about - shop - desktop translator - clipboard translator - chat translator - freetranslation platinum club - google toolbar buttons - free text translator - accelerator for internet explorer & firefox - link to freetranslation.com - page translator - widgets, gadgets & dashboards - facebook application & group - apple iphone application - more services - corporate solutions - professional translation - document translation - website translation - localization services - translation software - learning language tools - currency converter - more translation services... - learn a language - learn chinese - learn dutch - learn french - learn german - learn italian - learn portuguese - learn russian - learn spanish - learn english - help & faq - blog - platinum club - your account get the free accelerator now!
twitter get the free accelerator now!
now you can install language accelerators for internet explorer 8 and get an instant translation for any web page you are visiting or sections of highlighted text.
about freetranslation.com | site map | about sdl | site ownership privacy policy © 2000 - 2009 sdl.
to enable this functionality in firefox, a add-on must be installed first which you can downlaod from here.
supported languages
by using this website, you agree to be bound by our terms and conditions.
get the free accelerator now!
in order for you to proceed, we need to ask you to register to use this service.
once installed, simply highlight the text you want to translate, click the  accelerator button and see the translated text.
it won't take long, and you'll be translating before you know it!
sign up to become an affiliate.
- features - supported languages - get the free accelerator features internet explorer 8 is growing in popularity.
now you can install language accelerators for internet explorer 8 and get  an instant translation for any web page you are visiting or sections of  highlighted text.
we know that many people want to translate text or web pages seamlessly while browsing the internet.
name please enter your full name above.
we know that many people want  to translate text or web pages seamlessly while browsing the internet.
features get the free accelerator features internet explorer 8 is growing in popularity.
accelerator for internet explorer 8 & firefox translates full web pages and highlighted text in internet explorer 8  & firefox translate english text into 11 languages.
you need to install a different accelerator for each language pair you need.
simply register and choose the language you want to translate into.
to enable this  functionality in firefox, a add-on must be installed first which you can downlaod from here.
copyright and trademark notice.
email address please enter your email address above.
start translating directly from any webpage!
supported languages - english to french - english to italian - english to german - english to spanish - english to portuguese - english to dutch - english to norwegian - english to russian - english to japanese - english to simplified chinese - english to traditional chinese get the free accelerator here
once installed, simply highlight the text you want to translate, click the accelerator button and see the translated text.
keep me informed about other sdl products and services want to earn money from your website?
download the  firefox add-onthis internet exploror accelerator will work on  firefox too - just download the add-on!
they work with firefox too as a plug-in.
accelerator for internet explorer & firefox link to freetranslation.com