web design and developmentsearch when it comes to web browsers, microsoft’s internet explorer has enjoyed many years of near dominance.
in fact, the current statistics report that nearly three-quarters of web surfers use internet explorer.
instead, its flaws and loop holes are regularly exploited, making  your computer easy prey for malicious websites and hackers.
on the other hand, internet explorer is not known for  security.
as long as microsoft windows remains the preferred operating system, internet explorer will continue to be a predominant browser.
how anonymous are you online?
some standard features include a spell checker, download manager, customizable skins, and live bookmarking.
unlike internet explorer, firefox developers regularly address vulnerabilities and release patches when necessary.
additionally, many websites — including microsoft’s website which delivers product updates — require visitors to have internet explorer in order to use the advanced applications and applets.
tags: browsers ,firefox, internet explorer, mac, opera, safari, windows trackback url for this entry: http://www.velvetblues.com/web-development-blog/firefox-vs-internet-explorer/trackback/ name (required) email (required) website notify me of followup comments via e-mail contact us today for a quote.
industry news web browsers when it comes to web browsers, microsoft’s internet explorer has  enjoyed many years of near dominance.
some standard features include a  spell checker, download manager, customizable skins, and live bookmarking.
but things are rapidly changing.
unlike internet  explorer, firefox developers regularly address vulnerabilities and release  patches when necessary.
click here to submit details regarding your project.
will firefox be able to  dominate web space?
(windows is a microsoft product,  and most computers run the windows operating system.)
firefox also has an extension repository featuring a wide variety of add-ons that can be submitted by third party developers and downloaded by the general public.
but things are  rapidly changing.
on the other hand, internet explorer is not known for security.
as for firefox, it has become popular over time due to its speed, features, and plethora of optional add-on extensions.
so what is the reason for the steady decline in usage?
firefox, for example, would be  the predominant browser, allowing you countless features and unparalleled  security.
internet explorer is popular because it is the default browser that comes  pre-installed on windows operating systems.
why don't you subscribe to our feed so you can get the latest from this blog.
if that is not your cup of tea, be sure to try out other popular browsers such as apple safari or opera.
your choice of browsers depends on which operating system your computer  runs:
what can firefox offer you?
clearly, microsoft has been very clever to ensure that its web browser will continue to outperform others in terms of use.
mac users definitely opt for firefox.
share or subscribe why don't you subscribe to our feed so you can get the latest from this  blog.
in this article, we discuss how internet explorer has maintained such great popularity among web surfers, as well as the advantages and disadvantages of using firefox as an alternative browser.
so, which should you choose?
why is internet explorer popular?
the graph at left shows the increasing popularity of firefox (red line).
get this latest version by  clicking here.
in only a few years, firefox has become the second most popular browser, used by almost 1 in 5 web surfers.
windows users unfortunately, for windows users, you do not have the luxury of choosing  one browser over the other.
how to design websites for internet explorer helpful firefox add-ons for web developers top 5 website blunders firefox users beware: a trojan just for you!
internet explorer is popular because it is the default browser that comes pre-installed on windows operating systems.
although internet explorer still remains the most popular  browser, usage has steadily decreased since 2002, when 95% of internet users  used the browser.
get this latest version by clicking here.
instead, its flaws and loop holes are regularly exploited, making your computer easy prey for malicious websites and hackers.
you can also subscribe to thisarticle's comments feed.
who knows, in a year or two, we  might be advocating everyone to jump on the internet explorer bandwagon!
by the way, firefox 3.0 was recently released.
in  only a few years, firefox has become the second most popular browser, used by  almost 1 in 5 web surfers.
even more interesting, with every version of internet explorer the  differences between the two browsers lessen.
but one of the most celebrated features is security.
firefox also has an extension repository featuring a wide variety of add-ons  that can be submitted by third party developers and downloaded by the general  public.
if you are making a general inquiry, send an email to info@velvetblues.comcopyright © velvet blues, inc. 2005 - 2011 | velvetblues.com | privacy policy | terms of use | site map | twitter | rss feed
trackbacks trackback url for this entry: http://www.velvetblues.com/web-development-blog/firefox-vs-internet-explorer/trackback/ click here to cancel reply.
( image credits: wikipedia,mozilla firefox)
and internet explorer would be simply used for obtaining microsoft  updates.
will firefox be able to dominate web space?
as for firefox, it has become popular over time due to its speed, features,  and plethora of optional add-on extensions.
additionally, many websites — including microsoft’s website  which delivers product updates — require visitors to have internet  explorer in order to use the advanced applications and applets.
the green line shows the increasing popularity of safari, most likely due to  the increased popularity of macos on which safari is the default browser.
if that is not your cup of tea, be sure to try  out other popular browsers such as apple safari or opera.
although internet explorer still remains the most popular browser, usage has steadily decreased since 2002, when 95% of internet users used the browser.
windows users unfortunately, for windows users, you do not have the luxury of choosing one browser over the other.
the green line shows the increasing popularity of safari, most likely due to the increased popularity of macos on which safari is the default browser.
(windows is a microsoft product, and most computers run the windows operating system.)
clearly,  microsoft has been very clever to ensure that its web browser will continue to  outperform others in terms of use.
and so, the battle between the browsers rages on.
tags: browsers ,firefox, internet explorer, mac, opera, safari, windows related articles install multiple versions of ie on your pc should you design for all versions of internet explorer?
even more interesting, with every version of internet explorer the differences between the two browsers lessen.
( image credits: wikipedia,mozilla firefox) your choice of browsers depends on which operating system your computer runs: mac users definitely opt for firefox.
as long as microsoft windows remains the  preferred operating system, internet explorer will continue to be a predominant  browser.
firefox, for example, would be the predominant browser, allowing you countless features and unparalleled security.
who knows, in a year or two, we might be advocating everyone to jump on the internet explorer bandwagon!
and internet explorer would be simply used for obtaining microsoft updates.
in this article, we discuss how internet explorer has maintained such great  popularity among web surfers, as well as the advantages and disadvantages of  using firefox as an alternative browser.
in fact, the current statistics report  that nearly three-quarters of web surfers use internet explorer.