so i created my own lightweight web-based bookmark application that listed my top 50 or so links and ranked them by the number of times i clicked on them.
put a link to it on your desktop, and, if you are windows user, make it your default web browser.
it will only take a few minutes on a  fast connection and take just a few seconds to install.
amusingly, google is hosting thedefault firefox start page, but their toolbar  doesn’t work on firefox yet.
firefox loads pages faster.
i estimate that 1 in 5 or so of my initial clicks are for something that i’ve been working on or looking at in the past 24 hours, and having access to that context on my homepage saves a fair bit of time recreating the search.
and there it remained until just this year.
but those were the dark days in which microsoft “won” the browser war, and pushed the internet away from open standards and into a proprietary world of closed systems.
essential extensions: one of the strengths of firefox is the plug-in architecture.
but all of them include links to  essential sites, such as: google: i still use google when i don’t want to remember the search  history.
both comments and pings are currently closed.
the unto.net wiki: a personal wiki site that i maintain (running twiki).
with the release offirefox 1.0, the mozilla organization has incontrovertibly proven that, given enough time, the open-source development model can, and will, build superior software to that of their commercial competitors.
the fact that ie comes pre-installed on millions of  desktop computers is the only reason that it will retain any lead at all.
ten years ago, back  when they were the only portal in the game, i set my homepage toyahoo!.
this could be for any number of reasons, but more often or not it is  because it is just because it is easier to keep my work and my personal life  completely separate.
in the meantime, try the a9 toolbar.
then it will be open sourcemail readers.
i  use this site to manage miscellaneous personal notes.
aside from the time i worked at microsoft, i never used internet explorer.
and  there it remained until just this year.
comments are closed.
then open source instant  messaging clients.
this entry was posted on tuesday, november 9th, 2004 by dewitt clinton and is filed underwork.
it is so effective that i’d have reservations  about using it at all, if not for the nascent market for text-based (and much  less offensive) advertising.
and finally, once the application space has been reclaimed, the operating system itself is replaceable at little or no cost.
they are not recommendations, per  se, just ways in which i’ve learned to be most productive with firefox.
first it is  firefox.
having  immediate access to up-to-the-minute news, weather, and sports scores seemed to  be the most useful thing at the time.
eventually, a9 may be able to track different  “personalities” for each user and thus obviate the need for this.
i think that rss feeds and sites likegoogle news mitigate the need  for a single portal page.
now i use web-based alternatives, such as del.icio.us and a9, to  manage the majority of my frequently accessed links.
however, i’ve found  that the overhead of using a full wiki is fine for professional needs (we use  it extensively at work), but it is a little much for personal use.
a way of switching at no cost.
i still get the same web searches, but having the history right there is just incredibly valuable, and it is something one doesn’t get using google alone.
the my yahoo page is still one of the most convenient places to  keep track of news sources (i have about a dozen displayed on my customized  page), scores, weather, and stock prices.
rather than  capitalize on the market-share advantage they held and improve the technology  itself, microsoft was content leverage their dominance by further locking their  customers in.
and moreover, firefox gets a little bit better every single day,  thanks to the passion of the open source development community.
and since google was so lightweight, it made for little delay in opening up a browser window.
you can follow any responses to this entry through the rss 2.0 feed.
and theheir-apparent is just waiting in the wings.
this is an  indispensable tool for staying on top of current memes on the web.
until then, i suspect that most people do the same thing.
and  since google was so lightweight, it made for little delay in opening up a  browser window.
you can digg  this post.
then they launchedmy yahoo!, and that took over as my home page for a while.
this entry was posted on tuesday, november 9th, 2004 by dewitt clinton  and is filed underwork.
essential bookmarks: seeing as how i bounce around between 4 or 5 different computers during the course of my day, keeping a large bookmark directory locally on each is impractical.
the developers of firefox are hackers themselves, so they know that the best ideas frequently do not come from the heads of a product’s owners, but rather from outsiders.
those differ from computer to computer insofar as my work machines have some extra links to intranet resources.
that site doesn’t track anything  about the user — much less than google does, in fact.
i’ve installed it on dozens of machines over the past year or two, and these are the sites and plug-ins that i’ve found most useful.
and, unlike local  bookmarks, the interface never feels cluttered or unmanageable.
twitter: ob. quarterly update.
of course, i’ve been using firefox (and the other mozilla browsers) for years.
whenever i see an interesting  site that i might want to return to later, i add it.
if the playing field were level, and if microsoft were not a convicted monopolist, then firefox would already have climbed to the top of the browser market.
just as linux has emerged as the pre-eminent os for enterprise applications,  firefox has an opportunity to reclaim market share from microsoft’s  anemic internet explorer.
of course, a viable  alternative is to usegeneric.a9.com.
the a9 toolbar: a9 managed to beat google to the punch and release a  mozilla/firefox toolbar even before the official firefox 1.0 release.
of course, i’ve been using firefox (and the other mozilla browsers)  for years.
so how does one use firefox?
i read  about 30 different feeds regularly, and most of them i follow via bloglines.
i couldn’t be happier that version  1.0 of firefox has been released, and i look forward to the next generation of  the web, with first-rate (and free) applications such as this leading the way.
but some time around 2001, i started setting my home page to google.
i couldn’t be happier that version 1.0 of firefox has been released, and i look forward to the next generation of the web, with first-rate (and free) applications such as this leading the way.
the first step is to download a copy.
having immediate access to up-to-the-minute news, weather, and sports scores seemed to be the most useful thing at the time.
i have found dozens of sites that i otherwise  would have missed simply by checking del.icio.us/popular once or twice a day.
aside from the time i worked at microsoft, i never used internet  explorer.
however, there are a handful of links that i put right on the firefox  toolbar.
just as linux has emerged as the pre-eminent os for enterprise applications, firefox has an opportunity to reclaim market share from microsoft’s anemic internet explorer.
essential homepage: not surprisingly, i’ve set my homepage to a9.com.
of course, google has now been replaced as my homepage by a9.com.
ten years ago, back when they were the only portal in the game, i set my homepage toyahoo!.
the fact that ie comes pre-installed on millions of desktop computers is the only reason that it will retain any lead at all.
it is interesting how things have  changed — a few years ago i checked this page 50 times a day.
the current plague of viruses and spy-ware and security holes is a direct  consequence of leveraging monopoly power to push inferior technology on the  masses, without recourse to external audits or fair competition.
however, i was a little frustrated with the long load times of the my yahoo! page, especially when i knew that i simply wanted to open up a browser window to go to another site.
there is a complete list of firefox extensions, but here are some of my favorites: those are a few of the reasons that i have been using and evangelizing mozilla and firefox over the years.
simply because it is better in all ways than internet explorer.
but the web browser has become  emblematic of the internet itself.
you can digg this post.
that page loaded very quickly and was accessible from anywhere and it stayed as my home page for a number of years.
while the  a9 toolbar is still in beta, it has all of the features of the ie toolbar, and  is getting better every day.
the web browser is the “thin edge of the wedge” that forces its way into the workplace, into the home, and begin to wean customers away from their proprietary lock-in.
firefox has gone out of its way to provide a comprehensive set of apis to third-party developers so that it can get the most out of the strength of the community.
this list is updated daily and  tracks the most popular urls referenced by the world’s blogs.
and by offering a rich set of tools for third-party extensions, the firefox team has already seen a rich set of rewards.
del.icio.us/popular: similar to the bloglines top feeds, the real power of  a social bookmark manager is being able to keep abreast of what other people  find interesting and useful.
except where otherwise noted all portions of this article are copyright © 1999-2006dewitt clinton and are licensed under a creative commons license.
but the consequence of those closed systems was pre-ordained.
then open source instant messaging clients.
a way of switching at  no cost.
they scared their users about the high cost of switching to alternatives, but stopped offering anything valuable in return.
essential firefox november 9th, 2004 bydewitt clinton today marks a major milestone in the history of the internet.
you can bookmark this post at delicious.
put a link to it on  your desktop, and, if you are windows user, make it your default web browser.
one of the most interesting  pages is theblogline’s top links list.
so i created my own lightweight web-based  bookmark application that listed my top 50 or so links and ranked them by the  number of times i clicked on them.
the theory being that a certain percentage of time i was opening a web browser not knowing exactly where i wanted to go, but would instead be needing a search engine to find it.
essential bookmarks: seeing as how i bounce around between 4 or 5 different computers during the  course of my day, keeping a large bookmark directory locally on each is  impractical.
but suffice it to say that gmail is  probably the first link i click on each morning and the first place i go when i  sit back down at the machine.
it offers  so much more functionality that i suspect you’ll stick with it.
firefox is far, far more secure.
the developers of firefox are hackers themselves, so they know that the best  ideas frequently do not come from the heads of a product’s owners, but  rather from outsiders.
mark fletcher, founder of bloglines, has done an amazing job with this  application and adds new features every week or so.
firefox will improve your productivity on the web by an order of magnitude.
but now their customers have a viable exit strategy.
but all of them include links to essential sites, such as: essential extensions: one of the strengths of firefox is the plug-in architecture.
then open source office suites.
firefox offers tabbed browsing and pop-up  blocking.
google’s a smart company, though, so  their toolbar is sure to follow.
thanks in part to thefirefox plug-in, this social bookmark  manager has become a regular part of my life.
and moreover, firefox gets a little bit better every single day, thanks to the passion of the open source development community.
those are a few of the reasons that i have been using and evangelizing  mozilla and firefox over the years.
the current plague of viruses and spy-ware and security holes is a direct consequence of leveraging monopoly power to push inferior technology on the masses, without recourse to external audits or fair competition.
i use it regularly at work, and will adopt it at  home once it is a little easier to toggle the privacy mode on and off.
firefox offers tabbed browsing and pop-up blocking.
now i use web-based alternatives, such as del.icio.us and a9, to manage the majority of my frequently accessed links.
they failed to fundamentally improve internet explorer.
they did not release a single major innovation or improvement in the past 4 years.
firefox will improve your productivity on the web by an order of  magnitude.
firefox offers everything that internet explorer does and a thousand things more.
posted about 53 days ago nyc in november »
del.icio.us extension: used in conjunction with the del.icio.us social  bookmark manager, this extension has all but replaced my need for a local  bookmarks folder.
those differ from computer to computer insofar as my work machines  have some extra links to intranet resources.
that page loaded very quickly and was  accessible from anywhere and it stayed as my home page for a number of years.
but the web browser has become emblematic of the internet itself.
and even then i used netscape’s browser when i could.
i’ve installed it  on dozens of machines over the past year or two, and these are the sites and  plug-ins that i’ve found most useful.
and theheir-apparent is just  waiting in the wings.
firefox has hundreds of free extensions and themes to customize the experience.
firefox runs on  windows, mac os x, and linux.
the web browser is the “thin edge of  the wedge” that forces its way into the workplace, into the home, and  begin to wean customers away from their proprietary lock-in.
sure, it is just a web browser.
combine this  withbuzz andersen’s mac os x cocoal.icio.us client, and you have a very  powerful, and fun, bookmark manager.
they did not release a  single major innovation or improvement in the past 4 years.
i estimate that 1 in 5 or so of my initial clicks are for something that  i’ve been working on or looking at in the past 24 hours, and having  access to that context on my homepage saves a fair bit of time recreating the  search.
gmail: i’ve written about how important gmail is before, so i  won’t extol its virtues again here.
firefox has hundreds of free extensions and themes to customize the  experience.
next, here are some things that i do with firefox.
now, maybe  twice a day.
firefox offers everything that internet explorer does and a thousand  things more.
but those  were the dark days in which microsoft “won” the browser war, and  pushed the internet away from open standards and into a proprietary world of  closed systems.
today marks a major milestone in the history of the internet.
bloglines: bloglines is my favorite site for rss feed aggregation.
with the  release offirefox 1.0, the mozilla organization has incontrovertibly proven  that, given enough time, the open-source development model can, and will, build  superior software to that of their commercial competitors.
it will only take a few minutes on a fast connection and take just a few seconds to install.
i still  get the same web searches, but having the history right there is just  incredibly valuable, and it is something one doesn’t get using google  alone.
the theory being that a certain  percentage of time i was opening a web browser not knowing exactly where i  wanted to go, but would instead be needing a search engine to find it.
however, there are a handful of links that i put right on the firefox toolbar.
they are not recommendations, per se, just ways in which i’ve learned to be most productive with firefox.
my personal del.icio.us bookmarks: i am amazed that i use del.icio.us as  much as i do.
and by offering a rich set of tools for third-party  extensions, the firefox team has already seen a rich set of rewards.
firefox has  gone out of its way to provide a comprehensive set of apis to third-party  developers so that it can get the most out of the strength of the community.
they  failed to fundamentally improve internet explorer.
they scared their users about the high cost of switching to  alternatives, but stopped offering anything valuable in return.
and finally, once the application space has been reclaimed, the operating  system itself is replaceable at little or no cost.
rather than capitalize on the market-share advantage they held and improve the technology itself, microsoft was content leverage their dominance by further locking their customers in.
to that end  i’ve been developing a light-weight alternative that i look forward to  releasing publicly sometime soon.
if  the playing field were level, and if microsoft were not a convicted monopolist,  then firefox would already have climbed to the top of the browser market.
fortunately, and perhaps inexplicably, microsoft dropped the ball.
firefox is to client-side applications what linux is to operating systems.
however, i was a little frustrated with the long load times of the my  yahoo! page, especially when i knew that i simply wanted to open up a browser  window to go to another site.
there is a complete list of firefox extensions, but here are some of my  favorites: adblock: blocks pretty much every type of annoying and intrusive web  advertisement there is.
then  they launchedmy yahoo!, and that took over as my home page for a while.
firefox runs on windows, mac os x, and linux.