as you'll gather, i'm a big fan of firefox, and i recommend trying it out yourself and seeing if you like it.
firefox will then automatically install itself.
if, as i  do, you typically visit large numbers of websites during the course of your  working day, firefox really can save you a significant chunk of time.
i tend  to have www.mywriterscircle.com open on one tab, the page i am currently  viewing on another, the bbc news page on a third (i like to keep a close eye on  current affairs), and my website stats page on a fourth.
i do this  myself, but nowadays i use firefox almost all the time when browsing.
enter your e-mail address: wednesday, january 11, 2006 firefox browser
as you'll gather, i'm  a big fan of firefox, and i recommend trying it out yourself and seeing if you  like it.
i've been using it for about six months now, and one thing that has really impressed me is the speed with which websites load.
i don't know why firefox should be so quick compared with internet explorer, but others have noticed this as well.
using firefox, i can flip quickly and easily between them.
all that has changed,  however, with the emergence of firefox, a rival 'open source' browser which has  several clear advantages over internet explorer.
one of these is security.
it is also much better at organising your bookmarks (favorites) than internet explorer.
some aspects of firefox may look unfamiliar at first if you're used to internet explorer, but if you give it a fair chance, i'm pretty sure you'll end up making it your first-choice browser application.
home previous posts - cruising - writing for free - mywriterscircle.com - happy christmas!
nick at 9:55 am --> 0 comments: post a comment links to this post: see links to this post -  -  posted by  @  create a link <<
- science writing query - writer's block cd - article idea?
another thing i like about firefox is the facility it has for 'tabbed'  browsing.
this program is bundled free with most versions of microsoft windows,  and for some years it has had no serious rivals.
you may wish to say 'no' to this until you have had a chance to  evaluate firefox for yourself.
i do this myself, but nowadays i use firefox almost all the time when browsing.
you may wish to say 'no' to this until you have had a chance to evaluate firefox for yourself.
however, you can of course remove or deactivate the google toolbar if you wish.
if, as i do, you typically visit large numbers of websites during the course of your working day, firefox really can save you a significant chunk of time.
if you're like most people, as your browser  program (the program you use to surf the web) you use microsoft internet  explorer.
it is also much better at organising your  bookmarks (favorites) than internet explorer.
you can open up to five different websites in the same window and  quickly switch between them using the 'tabs' at the top of the screen.
i tend to have www.mywriterscircle.com open on one tab, the page i am currently viewing on another, the bbc news page on a third (i like to keep a close eye on current affairs), and my website stats page on a fourth.
i only switch to internet explorer on the very rare occasions when a site does not seem to display or operate correctly in firefox.
it will ask if you want to import your favorites  and history, and i recommend doing this (don't worry, they will still be there  in explorer as well).
it will also ask if you want to make firefox your default  browser.
this version of firefox includes the google toolbar, which has a pop-up blocker, automatic form filler, google search box, spell-checker, and much more.
i've been using  it for about six months now, and one thing that has really impressed me is the  speed with which websites load.
the best news is that firefox is free of charge, and you can download it via the following link: http://www.nickdaws.co.uk/firefox.htm just click on this link and click on the button that appears to go to the main information and download page.
twitter updates follow me on twitter custom search networkedblogs blog: my writing blog topics: writing, freelancing, books join my network powered by postrank all content © wccl 2008.
you can open up to five different websites in the same window and quickly switch between them using the 'tabs' at the top of the screen.
if you're like most people, as your browser program (the program you use to surf the web) you use microsoft internet explorer.
using firefox, i can  flip quickly and easily between them.
another thing i like about firefox is the facility it has for 'tabbed' browsing.
if you decide to try firefox, i recommend saving the .exe file to any suitable folder on your pc, then double-click to launch it.
firefox has many other features  not offered by internet explorer, including the ability to view your browsing  history not just by date but by name of website (alphabetical order), order in  which last viewed, and so on.
one of these is  security.
firefox is far less vulnerable to such attacks.
there is, of course, nothing to prevent you having both internet explorer and firefox on your machine.
receive this blog by e-mail!
visit www.myhelphub.com
firefox will then  automatically install itself.
sorry that's a slightly roundabout method, but by following this method the website will automatically detect what software you currently have installed and take you to the most appropriate download page.
it will ask if you want to import your favorites and history, and i recommend doing this (don't worry, they will still be there in explorer as well).
there is, of course, nothing to prevent  you having both internet explorer and firefox on your machine.
because internet explorer is so widely used, hackers and virus writers have queued up to try to exploit flaws in it (and in the past they have discovered many).
all that has changed, however, with the emergence of firefox, a rival 'open source' browser which has several clear advantages over internet explorer.
firefox has many other attractions as a browsing tool, however.
this program is bundled free with most versions of microsoft windows, and for some years it has had no serious rivals.
i don't know why firefox should be so quick  compared with internet explorer, but others have noticed this as well.
firefox has many other features not offered by internet explorer, including the ability to view your browsing history not just by date but by name of website (alphabetical order), order in which last viewed, and so on.
i only  switch to internet explorer on the very rare occasions when a site does not  seem to display or operate correctly in firefox.
the best news is that  firefox is free of charge, and you can download it via the following link: http://www.nickdaws.co.uk/firefox.htm just click on this link and  click on the button that appears to go to the main information and download  page.
if you decide to try firefox, i recommend saving the .exe file to any  suitable folder on your pc, then double-click to launch it.
some aspects of firefox may look unfamiliar at first if you're used to  internet explorer, but if you give it a fair chance, i'm pretty sure you'll end  up making it your first-choice browser application.
sorry that's a slightly roundabout method, but by following this method  the website will automatically detect what software you currently have  installed and take you to the most appropriate download page.
it will also ask if you want to make firefox your default browser.
because internet explorer is so widely used, hackers and virus  writers have queued up to try to exploit flaws in it (and in the past they have  discovered many).
this  version of firefox includes the google toolbar, which has a pop-up blocker,  automatic form filler, google search box, spell-checker, and much more.