the most recent openoffice upgrade offers the ability to send editable documents to others and a new way to run your impress presentations.
make your linux desktop more productive learn ways to make your linux desktop more productive with openoffice.org.
learn the differences between the firefox security model and internet explorer's, the main point being web security within mozilla tools is not something you customized individually.
make your linux desktop more productive learn ways to make your linux  desktop more productive with openoffice.org.
apache web server tools a comprehensive list of apache web server  resources and tools.
by submitting your registration information to searchenterpriselinux.com you agree to receive email communications from techtarget and techtarget partners.
in this  tip, learn about thebenefits and drawbacks of lamp (linux, apache, mysql, php)  with an emphasis on mysql.
interview: how webmin can ease dns management
tip: try these useful bind tools bind (berkeley internet  name domain) is a server that implements domain name service (dns).learn these  tools: hstcvt, dnswalk, nslint, host and dig.
this was first published in june 2009 intel shops now have support for more cores, more memory, 10 gigabit ethernet and speedier solid-state storage with the new intel xeon e5-2600.
in this faq, learn tricks you can use  to debug mozilla's components on linux and how to work around gdb memory usage  problems during this process.
return to table of contents network tools help improve network performance and reduce downtime, as well as configure routers, secure tunnels, and access network areas outside your local lan.
more resources on scripting tools 100 best javascript resources review 100 of the best javascript  techniques, plugins, and resources to use when working on linux, based on the  major libraries jquery, prototype, scriptaculous and more.
one program that can do this is nagios,  an open source host, service, and network monitoring program.
managing events with nagios event broker find out hownagios event broker (neb) allows users to output and integrate events into a mix of tools including mysql databases, snmp traps, and syslog messages.
bandwidth monitoring tools for linux | ubuntu geek learn about a  number of different bandwith monitor tools for linux, including autofocus,  etherape, and vmstat, and find out which tool is right for you.
apache web server tools a comprehensive list of apache web server resources and tools.
tip: linux desktop interoperability: ms office and openoffice an expert weighs the benefits and drawbacks of linux interoperability as it relates to pc clients.
monitoring network performance with speedometer use speedometer, a network performance tool, to view your network connection's history on a graph at a glance and to monitor downloads individually.
additional application server administer tools: dynamic languages powered by glassfish v3 application server glassfish  v3 is an open source multilanguage application server with support for many web  frameworks, including grails, rails, merb, sinatra, and django.
terms for whatis.com - the technology online dictionary
mozilla mozilla tools are used to improve the performance,  optimization, and security of the mozilla platform, a free, open source browser  and set of applications descended from the mozilla application suite.
if you reside outside of the united states, by submitting this registration information you consent to having your personal data transferred to and processed in the united states.
the mozilla toolkit learn about the important components of mozilla,  such as gecko, xul, xpcom, and javascript.
application servers are software engines that deliver applications to client computers and devices while handling a good amount of the business logic and data acess of the application.
starts at the beginning and quickly advances to more complex scripting.
tip: how to keep an eye on linux performance take a look at simplebuilt-in linux performance reporting commands.
in this tip, learn about thebenefits and drawbacks of lamp (linux, apache, mysql, php) with an emphasis on mysql.
tip: using openssh for secure network tunnels on linux learn about thebasic uses of ssh and how tunneling traffic through an ssh session works on linux.
return to table of contents network tools help improve network performance and reduce downtime, as well  as configure routers, secure tunnels, and access network areas outside your  local lan.
learn the basics of bash scripting and find out how to build  upon this knowledge to create more and more complex bash scripts.
tip: virtualization options for enterprise linux an expert provides a summary ofthe most important desktop virtualization solutions for linux and offers circumstances where different solutions are applicable.
article: after delay, fedora 10 finally available learn aboutthe fedora 10 update that includes new remote server administration tools, cloud storage features, security enhancements, and power-saving features useful for red hat enterprise linux and other linux distributions.
tip: linux desktop interoperability: ms office and openoffice an expert weighs the benefits and drawbacks of linux interoperability as  it relates to pc clients.
application server administer tools application server administration tools are designed to help administrators deploy, build up, and carry out all application operations between an organization's backend databases and the users.
application server administer tools return to table of contents learn how to configure an application server, install mysql, improve  infrastructure security and monitor network performance with a few of these  application server administrator tools.
in this  tip, find outhow to tune snort, the intrusion detection application system  (ids), to work faster and more proficiently with the third-party application  barnyard.
the linux application server landscape in this q&a, michael dortch discusses the cost benefits, weighs thepros and cons of linux application servers, and weighs the pros and cons of ibm websphere and jboss.com
chapter download: debugging ipc with shell commands from  "the linux programmer's toolbox" author john fusco  recommends what open source tools are available for gnu/linux and offersadvice  about utilities for debugging communication between processes.
rhev 3.0 offers enterprise-grade features at low price point.
network tools openssh, nagios, and autofocus are just a few  examples of linux network tools.
these tools help improve network performance and reduce downtime,  configure routers, secure tunnels, and access network areas outside your local  lan.
tip: how to use gnome to manage end users' desktops on suse linux enterprise desktop 10 learn how to set up a gnone environment on suse linux enterprise desktop 10 and use it to change desktop settings and lock down the desktop.
tips: seven tips for optimizing shell script security simple tips tomake your shell scripts on linux hosts as secure as possible.
your use of searchenterpriselinux.com is  governed by ourterms of use.
tip: linux sendfile and apache servers: how an underused feature  can offset overused resources linux hacker and system administrator  explainshow to improve apache performance by taking advantage of the operating  system's efficient data transfer routines.
getting started with the linux intrusion detection system find out more about lids, a patch to the linux kernel that implements access control and goes beyond file system settings.
bandwidth monitoring tools for linux | ubuntu geek learn about a number of different bandwith monitor tools for linux, including autofocus, etherape, and vmstat, and find out which tool is right for you.
in latest release, nmap looks better than ever the 4.50 release of the linux security tool nmap includes zenmap, a cross-platform gui front end that makes the tool easier to use.
management and administration tools return to table of contents read below for useful tools, applications and commands to manage and/or  administor your linux server to the best of your ability.
in this book excerpt, discover the dynamics of the different plug-ins needed to work with nagios on linux.
virtualization backup tools have become a crucial investment for many it shops.
google's latest cloud storage price cuts indicate infrastructure costs will likely continue to drop.
tip: where's the firefox security button?
requires free membership to view login when you register, my team of editors will also send you resources covering  linux administration and management; integration and interoperability between  linux, windows and unix; securing linux and mixed-platform environments; and  migrating to linux.
additional application server administer tools: dynamic languages powered by glassfish v3 application server glassfish v3 is an open source multilanguage application server with support for many web frameworks, including grails, rails, merb, sinatra, and django.
tip: enterprise open source migrations: dealing with file services learn about the file services options in the open source world and how they work to combat problems when migrating to linux.
tip: installing the mysql database server securely the  author of "hardening linux" gives step-by-step process tosecuring  your mysql installation, focusing on infrastructure security.
learn about  nagios' "simple build" philosophy to find outif this open source tool  is the best fit for your data center.
in this faq, learn tricks you can use to debug mozilla's components on linux and how to work around gdb memory usage problems during this process.
tip: is nagios right for your data center?
jboss application server wiki all things jboss including hints for  jboss on linux, an admin guide, and configuration instructions.
tip: enterprise open source migrations: dealing with file services learn about the file services options in the open source world and  how they work to combat problems when migrating to linux.
more resources on scripting tools 100 best javascript resources review 100 of the best javascript techniques, plugins, and resources to use when working on linux, based on the major libraries jquery, prototype, scriptaculous and more.
try these tips and tools to diagnose problems when connecting linux networks to remote or local servers.
tip: how to install centos 5.2 via a preboot execution environment learn how to improve your os installation experience by installing  centos 5.2 using a pxe server.
additional desktop tool tips and resources 10 ways the linux desktop improves the user experience jack wallen  explains the advantages the linux desktop has over windows and mac, such as  efficient and flexible design and superior update systems.
there are times when it is helpful to script some action or series of actions for ssh servers rather than performing them interactively.
tip: linux business desktops: open the pod bay doors,
ubuntu 8.04 (hardy heron) lamp server setup installing a lamp (linux,  apache, mysql and php) server on ubuntu 8.04 can be done in 15 minutes.
get nagios for your ajax applications ajax applications must be monitored remotely over the networks.
chapter download: testing local resources, chapter 7 of 'nagios:  system and network monitoring'
interview: how webmin can ease dns management the  creator of webmin, a program designed to simplify unix or linux management,  explainshow webmin can help handle dns changes.
this chapter download explains how  users can utilize open source database mysql with the linux web application  perl and connect to relational databases.
learn how rhel4  utilities and commands can solve problems accessing the network or areas  outside your local lan.
try these tips and tools to diagnose problems when connecting linux networks to  remote or local servers.
administrators and users  use shell scripting tools to improve backup runs, purge /tmp directories,  monitor processes and create users, among many other tasks.
interview: open source and mission critical:
administrators and users use shell scripting tools to improve backup runs, purge /tmp directories, monitor processes and create users, among many other tasks.
tip: when to use selinux: an introduction to security-enhanced  linux learn more about security-enhanced linux (selinux), what it can  do for you, how to deploy it, and more.
tip: how to switch an enterprise from ie to firefox
expert response: open database connectivity (odbc) drivers for  linux learn more about odbc, mysql, and these tools: ksql, pgaccess  and tksql.
the mozilla toolkit learn about the important components of mozilla, such as gecko, xul, xpcom, and javascript.
security tools linux security tools are developed to defend and  protect your linux platform.
desktop tools return to table of contents visit these different resources and web sites to read about the benefits linux desktop offers has over windows and how to keep it this way with interoperability, desktop virutalization solutions, and other tools.
to see if it’s right for your it shop, you can build a small rhev 3.0 test environment.
hal two experts introduce thelinux hardware abstraction layer, a tool that helps desktop users get connected with hardware devices.
security information management: ossim attain an  enterprise-wide view of open source security information management, a  monitoring package of integrated open source tools, and the security it brings  to security professionals.
tip: end the end-of-line hassle
the opforce  server-provisioning tool adds support for suuse linux.
vmware’s new free capacity analysis tool shows you how you stack up, but vbenchmark’s real value is reporting on infrastructure utilization.
management and administration tools management and administration  tools cater specifically to the linux manager and administrator.
tip: improving snort performance with barnyard
jboss application server wiki all things jboss including hints for jboss on linux, an admin guide, and configuration instructions.
scripting tools linux features powerful scripting languages like  bash, php and perl, thus demanding scripting tools to execute script commands.
linux network tools consist of network  performance monitoring, routing, and connectivity tools used on the linux  network.
this chapter download explains how users can utilize open source database mysql with the linux web application perl and connect to relational databases.
q&a: expert outlines mozilla benefits, part 2
network tools openssh, nagios, and autofocus are just a few examples of linux network tools.
other  management and administration tools used to simplify these duties consist of  nagios, top, and puppet.
tip: how to keep an eye on linux performance take a look  at simplebuilt-in linux performance reporting commands.
q&a: expert outlines mozilla benefits, part 2 read  aboutmozilla tools such as dom inspector and debugger that can help it shops  debug tools and develop web applications.
tip: when to use selinux: an introduction to security-enhanced linux learn more about security-enhanced linux (selinux), what it can do for you, how to deploy it, and more.
in this interview, ranajit nevatia talks about using linux for utility computing.
mozilla mozilla tools are used to improve the performance, optimization, and security of the mozilla platform, a free, open source browser and set of applications descended from the mozilla application suite.
lamp (linux, apache, mysql, and php) is a stack software solution that provide a way to deploy rich web 2.0 applications on inexpensive clusters of service computers.
linux network tools consist of network performance monitoring, routing, and connectivity tools used on the linux network.
article: after delay, fedora 10 finally available learn  aboutthe fedora 10 update that includes new remote server administration tools,  cloud storage features, security enhancements, and power-saving features useful  for red hat enterprise linux and other linux distributions.
this tip explains how  you use hex codes 0x0a, 0x0c and 0x0dto help describe the ends of a lines in a  file on linux or unix applications.
getting  started with the linux intrusion detection system find out more about  lids, a patch to the linux kernel that implements access control and goes  beyond file system settings.
snort, nessus, netstat, ossim and bastille linux are all tools that can shield your system.
this windows 8 faq has the latest windows 8 news and analysis.
check out additional security tool tips and resources the best linux security tools learn about ten of the best linux security tools including nmap and nessus.
choosing the right one requires an analysis of the features and cost.
application server administer tools return to table of contents learn how to configure an application server, install mysql, improve infrastructure security and monitor network performance with a few of these application server administrator tools.
tip: how-to: ms-to-linux desktops with alacos' migration tool learn a step-by-step approach to installing and using the linux migration  agent network server edition, an alacos' desktop migration tool smart changes in latest openoffice upgrade
tip: keys to successfully running samba in a production  environment learn best practices for configuration, backup, and
with the mozilla platform and mozilla tools, it shops can better handle quick hats and desktop business process tasks, as well as windows-to-linux migrations and interoperability.
tip: virtualization options for enterprise linux an  expert provides a summary ofthe most important desktop virtualization solutions  for linux and offers circumstances where different solutions are applicable.
security tools return to table of contents the resources, tips, and articles below highlight many popular and effective monitoring, intrusion detection, and other security tools available to make your linux distribution as safe and secure as possible.
reveals the best linux networking environment is one that is customized to meet  the needs of the your individual environment.
starts at the beginning and quickly advances to more complex  scripting.
interview: linux routers, part 2: router functionality lives in  linux kernel an expert shareshis thoughts on commercial routers,  routing options available for linux, and discusses the fundamentals of the  kernel.
tip: virtual host management: how to use puppet on red hat  enterprise linux 5 find out how to install puppet, a centralized  configuration management tool, on red hat enterprise linux 5 in order to manage  environments with hundreds of virtual hosts.
commentary: addition of ipsec locks down 2.6 kernel find out howthe addition of ipsec and netfiller built into 2.6 kernel is bringing linux on par with unix.
learn how to manage these applications and how to use  them to your advantage within your linux system.
get nagios for your ajax applications ajax applications must be  monitored remotely over the networks.
this list of must-have free open source security tools provides numerous options for staying a step ahead.
how to be a 'security warrior,' part 1 learn about several useful security tools you can use to outfit your secure linux enterprise, including nessus, bastille, and nmap.
one program that can do this is nagios, an open source host, service, and network monitoring program.
margie semilof, editorial director
chapter download: debugging ipc with shell commands from "the linux programmer's toolbox" author john fusco recommends what open source tools are available for gnu/linux and offersadvice about utilities for debugging communication between processes.
security information management: ossim attain an enterprise-wide view of open source security information management, a monitoring package of integrated open source tools, and the security it brings to security professionals.
linux security may be improved with hardening tool learn more about security blanket, a linux hardening tool that is designed to be easy to use and aid administrators with compliance issues.
linux regular expression tutorial learn how linux administrators can use regular expressions in grep to search for a specific text string within files to narrow a command search.
in this  tip, users are directedwhere to find safe firefox add-ons and realize they are  downloading plug-ins at their own risk.
shell customization, the list command, and hex codes are all scripting tools that can help improve the quality, security, or performance of the shell script.
shell customization, the list command,  and hex codes are all scripting tools that can help improve the quality,  security, or performance of the shell script.
tip: remedial network performance testing 101 improve linux network performance with mii-tool, mii-diag and ethtool.
selinux symposium learn basic concepts of this security tool and how they can be applied to create selinux policies.
additional mozilla tool tips and information debugging mozilla on linux faq
firekeeper configuration: hardening your firefox browser learn about firekeeper, a new ids engine tool that integrates with your firefox browser available for windows and linux and can detect and protect against online threats.
how to be a 'security warrior,' part 1 learn about several  useful security tools you can use to outfit your secure linux enterprise,  including nessus, bastille, and nmap.
snort, nessus, netstat, ossim and bastille linux are all tools that can  shield your system.
the most recent  openoffice upgrade offers the ability to send editable documents to others and  a new way to run your impress presentations.
linux  distributions, apparmor and more hardening linux author and security  expert discussesoptions for the safest linux distribution and compares security  tool strength between apparmor and selinux.
shell scripts allow several commands that would be entered manually at a command line to be executed automatically and quickly.
sybase vs. oracle: 10 reasons to use sybase on linux an expert lists whysybase running on linux is a better choice than  oracle-on-linux for enterprises today.
dig deeper people who read this also read... 77 useful linux commands and utilities digest: windows and linux interoperability, integration learning guide: desktop linux linux security guide: linux, open source security tools and tips managing high-volume cpu processes with bash related tags
tip: how to switch an enterprise from ie to firefox this  tip highlights important concerns enterprises must consider whenswitching from  microsoft internet explorer (ie) to mozilla firefox.
this tip highlights important concerns enterprises must consider whenswitching from microsoft internet explorer (ie) to mozilla firefox.
hal two experts introduce thelinux hardware abstraction layer, a tool that helps  desktop users get connected with hardware devices.
tip: how to use gnome to manage end users' desktops on suse linux  enterprise desktop 10 learn how to set up a gnone environment on suse  linux enterprise desktop 10 and use it to change desktop settings and lock down  the desktop.
the linux tools guide provides resources and tips for implementing the  most important tools for each category of the linux operating system:  application server administration, network, scripting, mozilla, security,  management, and the desktop.
desktop tools return to table of contents visit these different resources and web sites to read about the benefits  linux desktop offers has over windows and how to keep it this way with  interoperability, desktop virutalization solutions, and other tools.
in this book excerpt, discover the  dynamics of the different plug-ins needed to work with nagios on linux.
tip: vulnerability scanning with nessus learn how the free security tool nessus works.
how i used linux network tools to solve real problems greg schaffer  presents real-life examples of utilizing the combination of the linux  distribution fedora core with open-source packages libpcap, tcpdump, iptraf and  mrtg to solve network problems.
security tools linux security tools are developed to defend and protect your linux platform.
scripting tools return to table of contents administrators and users use shell scripting tools to improve backup  runs, purge /tmp directories, monitor processes and create users, among many  other tasks.
linux desktop search read about the linux beagle search utility, a tool that allows users to search right from the linux desktop without the command line.
mozilla tools consist of the browser, e-mailer, composer, and  the dom inspector and javascript debugger in the web space.
tip: try these useful bind tools bind (berkeley internet name domain) is a server that implements domain name service (dns).learn these tools: hstcvt, dnswalk, nslint, host and dig.
linux desktop search read about the linux beagle search utility, a  tool that allows users to search right from the linux desktop without the  command line.
some applications are written in shell script, and some users rely on shell scripts for installation or integration purposes.
it pros searching for ways to find windows flaws should look no further.
tip: managing high-volume cpu processes with bash learn  how touse bash script to check top-performing processes and lower the load of  the cpu if it gets too high.
linux distributions, apparmor and more hardening linux author and security expert discussesoptions for the safest linux distribution and compares security tool strength between apparmor and selinux.
in this article, mozilla executives argue there is still room for firefox among competitors such as apple and microsoft.
tip: understanding linux system performance management using top an expert explains what top performance results mean in order to help linux server administrators determine how their system is performing.
how i used linux network tools to solve real problems greg schaffer presents real-life examples of utilizing the combination of the linux distribution fedora core with open-source packages libpcap, tcpdump, iptraf and mrtg to solve network problems.
firefox plug-ins: download or tune out?
we encourage you to read ourprivacy policy which contains important  disclosures about how we collect and use your registration and other  information.
management and administration tools management and administration tools cater specifically to the linux manager and administrator.
chapter download: chapter 3 -- databases with perl -- of 'beginning perl web development'
others include apache application server, perl server, and enterprise javebeans.
ibm rolled out a handful of offerings for smartcloud foundation designed to give it shops more visibility and control of their cloud environments.
there are times when it  is helpful to script some action or series of actions for ssh servers rather  than performing them interactively.
in this tip, find outhow to tune snort, the intrusion detection application system (ids), to work faster and more proficiently with the third-party application barnyard.
learn how rhel4 utilities and commands can solve problems accessing the network or areas outside your local lan.
interview: linux routers, part 3: expert describes optimal linux  routing setup the final installment of a three-part interview series
tip: fighting spam with qpsmtpd learn how to install  qpsmtpd, a perl-based smtpd daemon, for spam protection on a linux-based  distribution in the first part of this three-part tip.
interview: the linux desktop: browser and distro security tips the author of "hardening linux" explains why the linux desktop is more secure than windows.
desktop tools the final featured category featured in our learning  guide are desktop tools.
mozilla executives address firefox's challenges
scripting tools linux features powerful scripting languages like bash, php and perl, thus demanding scripting tools to execute script commands.
interview: platform and application security:
expert response: open database connectivity (odbc) drivers for linux learn more about odbc, mysql, and these tools: ksql, pgaccess and tksql.
monitoring network performance with speedometer use speedometer, a  network performance tool, to view your network connection's history on a graph  at a glance and to monitor downloads individually.
firekeeper configuration: hardening your firefox browser learn about firekeeper, a new ids engine tool that integrates with your  firefox browser available for windows and linux and can detect and protect  against online threats.
check out additional security tool tips  and resources the best linux security tools learn about ten  of the best linux security tools including nmap and nessus.
scripting tools return to table of contents administrators and users use shell scripting tools to improve backup runs, purge /tmp directories, monitor processes and create users, among many other tasks.
some applications  are written in shell script, and some users rely on shell scripts for  installation or integration purposes.
tip: vulnerability scanning with nessus learn how the  free security tool nessus works.
linux and unix how to: scripting ssh and sftp
these tools  help administrators complete tasks such as monitoring linux activity with  performance reporting commands, implementing integrated remote control with  remote management tools, and using webmin to ease dns management.
vulnerability scanning, monitoring, and  intrusion-detection tools are all security tools you can implement that can  protect your linux platform from hackers, malicious code, and inappropriate  use.
table of contents application server administer tools application server  administration tools are designed to help administrators deploy, build up, and  carry out all application operations between an organization's backend  databases and the users.
tip: bastille linux: introduction and installation learn  how automated security tool bastille linux works and why it is ideal for  configuring heterogeneous it environments.
these tools help administrators complete tasks such as monitoring linux activity with performance reporting commands, implementing integrated remote control with remote management tools, and using webmin to ease dns management.
tip: remedial network performance testing 101 improve  linux network performance with mii-tool, mii-diag and ethtool.
administrator tip: netstat: a small but powerful tool for administrators read more about netstat, a command already built into most linux/unix machines.
in this tip, users are directedwhere to find safe firefox add-ons and realize they are downloading plug-ins at their own risk.
choosing the most important features
desktop tools the final featured category featured in our learning guide are desktop tools.
the creator of webmin, a program designed to simplify unix or linux management, explainshow webmin can help handle dns changes.
linux security may be improved with  hardening tool learn more about security blanket, a linux hardening tool  that is designed to be easy to use and aid administrators with compliance  issues.
now that the consumer preview is out, we have more information about new windows 8 features.
tip: understanding linux system performance management using top an expert explains what top performance results mean in order to help  linux server administrators determine how their system is performing.
more on network tools 9 tips to diagnose remote gnu/linux server network connectivity issues
open source databases, open source web and application servers, enterprise applications for linux linux administration tools, linux management and configuration, linux interoperability, linux licensing and support, linux monitoring and troubleshooting, introduction to linux system administration linux enterprise desktop distributions, linux enterprise desktop applications cloud computing on linux, linux high-performance computing and supercomputing, linux server hardware, linux virtualization, linux backup and storage, linux network administration, open source projects in the cloud unix-to-linux migration, windows-to-linux migration, linux to linux migration linux security risks and threats, linux system security best practices, linux security tools linux news and updates, red hat enterprise linux server, suse linux enterprise server, ubuntu server, noncommercial linux distributions, oracle enterprise linux the linux tools guide provides resources and tips for implementing the most important tools for each category of the linux operating system: application server administration, network, scripting, mozilla, security, management, and the desktop.
in this interview,  ranajit nevatia talks about using linux for utility computing.
microsoft has touted windows to go as a way to facilitate bring your own device programs, but the usb-based windows 8 feature may not support commonly used devices.
from desktop virtualization tools to the latest  openoffice upgrade, these desktop tools improve the performance, security  features, and accessibility of the linux desktop and linux enterprise desktop.
tip: fighting spam with qpsmtpd learn how to install qpsmtpd, a perl-based smtpd daemon, for spam protection on a linux-based distribution in the first part of this three-part tip.
chapter download: chapter 3 -- databases with perl -- of  'beginning perl web development'
chapter download: testing local resources, chapter 7 of 'nagios: system and network monitoring'
q&a: expert outlines mozilla benefits, part 1 learn how themozilla platform can help it shops with windows-to-linux migrations and interoperability.
python and paramiko are useful scripting tools to use in this scenario.
mozilla return to table of contents read tips on migrating from internet explorer to firefox, discover how  to detect against threats to your firefox browser, and find out how to get the  most out of your mozilla application suite on linux.
vulnerability scanning, monitoring, and intrusion-detection tools are all security tools you can implement that can protect your linux platform from hackers, malicious code, and inappropriate use.
others include apache application server, perl server,  and enterprise javebeans.
bash scripting basics bash scripting is a necessity when using linux.
the opforce server-provisioning tool adds support for suuse linux.
lamp (linux, apache,  mysql, and php) is a stack software solution that provide a way to deploy rich  web 2.0 applications on inexpensive clusters of service computers.
if you reside outside of the united states, by submitting this  registration information you consent to having your personal data transferred  to and processed in the united states.
learn about nagios' "simple build" philosophy to find outif this open source tool is the best fit for your data center.
other management and administration tools used to simplify these duties consist of nagios, top, and puppet.
scripting best practices read best practice tips for scripting languages,  with an emphasis on perl and bash.
tip: using openssh for secure network tunnels on linux learn about thebasic uses of ssh and how tunneling traffic through an ssh  session works on linux.
application servers are software engines that deliver  applications to client computers and devices while handling a good amount of  the business logic and data acess of the application.
scripting best practices read best practice tips for scripting languages, with an emphasis on perl and bash.
tip: how to install centos 5.2 via a preboot execution environment learn how to improve your os installation experience by installing centos 5.2 using a pxe server.
linux open source firewall software options examine  some of the open source firewalls and routers in a networked environment for  linux that influence netfilter/iptables.
interview: the linux desktop: browser and distro security tips the author of "hardening linux" explains why the linux desktop  is more secure than windows.
this tip explains how you use hex codes 0x0a, 0x0c and 0x0dto help describe the ends of a lines in a file on linux or unix applications.
tip: bastille linux: introduction and installation learn how automated security tool bastille linux works and why it is ideal for configuring heterogeneous it environments.
learn the basics of bash scripting and find out how to build upon this knowledge to create more and more complex bash scripts.
expert response: monitor linux performance with simple tools learn how to monitor linux system performance with vmstat and other "stat" commands.
these tools help improve network performance and reduce downtime, configure routers, secure tunnels, and access network areas outside your local lan.
tip: managing high-volume cpu processes with bash learn how touse bash script to check top-performing processes and lower the load of the cpu if it gets too high.
tip: try these handy mozilla tools on your linux system discover how toget more out of mozilla application suite on enterprise linux.
learn how to manage these applications and how to use them to your advantage within your linux system.
tip: virtual host management: how to use puppet on red hat enterprise linux 5 find out how to install puppet, a centralized configuration management tool, on red hat enterprise linux 5 in order to manage environments with hundreds of virtual hosts.
when you register, my team of editors will also send you resources covering linux administration and management; integration and interoperability between linux, windows and unix; securing linux and mixed-platform environments; and migrating to linux.
with the  mozilla platform and mozilla tools, it shops can better handle quick hats and  desktop business process tasks, as well as windows-to-linux migrations and  interoperability.
bash scripting basics bash scripting is a necessity  when using linux.
management and administration tools return to table of contents read below for useful tools, applications and commands to manage and/or administor your linux server to the best of your ability.
margie semilof, editorial director e-mail address: by submitting your registration information to searchenterpriselinux.com  you agree to receive email communications from techtarget and techtarget  partners.
shell scripts allow several commands that would be entered manually at a  command line to be executed automatically and quickly.
tip: keys to successfully running samba in a production environment learn best practices for configuration, backup, and support whilerunning samba in a diverse production environment with linux/unix and windows systems.
commentary: addition of ipsec locks down 2.6 kernel find  out howthe addition of ipsec and netfiller built into 2.6 kernel is bringing  linux on par with unix.
we encourage you to read ourprivacy policy which contains important disclosures about how we collect and use your registration and other information.
java platform, enterprise edition (j2ee) application server is another open source application server, along with it's commercial open source counterpart, red hat's jboss appserver.
learn how the business  process execution language for web services can combine web services to  implement business processes.
administrator tip: netstat: a small but powerful tool for  administrators read more about netstat, a command already built into  most linux/unix machines.
read aboutmozilla tools such as dom inspector and debugger that can help it shops debug tools and develop web applications.
your use of searchenterpriselinux.com is governed by ourterms of use.
mozilla tools consist of the browser, e-mailer, composer, and the dom inspector and javascript debugger in the web space.
managing events with nagios event broker find out  hownagios event broker (neb) allows users to output and integrate events into a  mix of tools including mysql databases, snmp traps, and syslog messages.
learn the  differences between the firefox security model and internet explorer's, the  main point being web security within mozilla tools is not something you  customized individually.
tip: linux sendfile and apache servers: how an underused feature can offset overused resources linux hacker and system administrator explainshow to improve apache performance by taking advantage of the operating system's efficient data transfer routines.
interview: opforce server-provisioning tool
try integrated remote control read this short list of remote management tools for linux/windows.
sharing files between linux servers with nfs learn how to establish communication between linux servers using the network file system (nfs).
python and paramiko are useful scripting  tools to use in this scenario.
you may contact us at webmaster@techtarget.com.
sybase vs. oracle: 10 reasons to use sybase on linux an expert lists whysybase running on linux is a better choice than oracle-on-linux for enterprises today.
q&a: expert outlines mozilla benefits, part 1 learn  how themozilla platform can help it shops with windows-to-linux migrations and  interoperability.
support whilerunning samba in a diverse production environment with linux/unix  and windows systems.
amd’s seamicro buy could be the harbinger of a fundamental shift in how servers are designed, experts say.
new dell poweredge 12g servers give customers more memory and disk capacity for virtualization along with management software updates.
mozilla return to table of contents read tips on migrating from internet explorer to firefox, discover how to detect against threats to your firefox browser, and find out how to get the most out of your mozilla application suite on linux.
tip: installing the mysql database server securely the author of "hardening linux" gives step-by-step process tosecuring your mysql installation, focusing on infrastructure security.
security tools return to table of contents the resources, tips, and articles below highlight many popular and  effective monitoring, intrusion detection, and other security tools available  to make your linux distribution as safe and secure as possible.
linux regular expression tutorial learn how linux  administrators can use regular expressions in grep to search for a specific  text string within files to narrow a command search.
expert response: monitor linux performance with simple tools learn how to monitor linux system performance with vmstat and other  "stat" commands.
advanced bash-scripting guide a guide for those wishing to start shell  scripting.
advanced bash-scripting guide a guide for those wishing to start shell scripting.
interview: linux routers, part 2: router functionality lives in linux kernel an expert shareshis thoughts on commercial routers, routing options available for linux, and discusses the fundamentals of the kernel.
sharing files between linux servers with nfs learn  how to establish communication between linux servers using the network file  system (nfs).
the linux  application server landscape in this q&a, michael dortch discusses  the cost benefits, weighs thepros and cons of linux application servers, and  weighs the pros and cons of ibm websphere and jboss.com tip:
learn how the business process execution language for web services can combine web services to implement business processes.
tip: configure your rhel4 network
try integrated remote control read this short list  of remote management tools for linux/windows.
from desktop virtualization tools to the latest openoffice upgrade, these desktop tools improve the performance, security features, and accessibility of the linux desktop and linux enterprise desktop.
interview: linux routers, part 3: expert describes optimal linux routing setup the final installment of a three-part interview series reveals the best linux networking environment is one that is customized to meet the needs of the your individual environment.
expert response: what is bpel?
linux open source firewall software options examine some of the open source firewalls and routers in a networked environment for linux that influence netfilter/iptables.
amazon web services’ latest round of cloud service price cuts offer large contract customers deep discounts for amazon ec2.
additional desktop tool tips and resources 10 ways the linux desktop improves the user experience jack wallen explains the advantages the linux desktop has over windows and mac, such as efficient and flexible design and superior update systems.
tip: how-to: ms-to-linux desktops with alacos' migration tool learn a step-by-step approach to installing and using the linux migration agent network server edition, an alacos' desktop migration tool smart changes in latest openoffice upgrade
in this article,  mozilla executives argue there is still room for firefox among competitors such  as apple and microsoft.
in latest release, nmap looks better than ever the 4.50  release of the linux security tool nmap includes zenmap, a cross-platform gui  front end that makes the tool easier to use.
selinux symposium learn basic concepts of this security tool and how they can be applied to  create selinux policies.
ubuntu 8.04 (hardy heron) lamp server setup installing a lamp (linux, apache, mysql and php) server on ubuntu 8.04 can be done in 15 minutes.
java  platform, enterprise edition (j2ee) application server is another open source  application server, along with it's commercial open source counterpart, red  hat's jboss appserver.