here are my font settings: these are tuned to look good on the high-density 1600 x 1200 15” display on mythinkpad.
all the scripts are stored on a wiki so anyone can share and update them.
update: added installation information for clone window and googlebar, and bookmark sorting information.
(if there’s no icon, the blank spot to the left of http: will work as an icon anyway.)
very interesting… and definitely not your grandfather’s ibm.
you can increase the text size of any site (any site) with ctrl+plus (you don’t need the shift key, so i suppose it’s really ctrl+=, but it’s easier to remember it as ctrl+plus), and decrease the text size withctrl+minus.
to the left of the site address (url) in the address bar there is an icon for the website you’re viewing.
but it can still be very useful for sites like this.
sorting your bookmarks firefox displays its bookmarks in some peculiar order by default.
it reads just like the instructions you might write down for someone, but  it’s an actual executable script.
on a lower-density display you may prefer other settings, but in any case you’ll find it worthwhile to spend some time in this dialog.
when i click a link in some other application such as my email client, i don’t want it to replace a website that i had already open, i want a new window.
clone window i like the way ie duplicates a window’s current state when you use ctrl+n to open a new window.
click the edit options button which will open the allowed sites dialog, then click allow and ok.
one thing it doesn’t have ispagerank, but there are a number of variations of the googlebar that include pagerank.
firefox uses randomized names like this to help protect your profile against intruders.
this is likely to improve now that some of the reason staffers haveswitched to firefox.
advanced tweaks fans of reason magazine’s lively hit & run blog may have noticed that the text on this blog comes out really tiny in firefox, because of some unfortunate font choices in in the style sheets used on this site.
finally, click the installation link again to install the clone window extension.
the comment text will display in the more readable georgia font at a decent size, instead of the small times font it uses by default.
firefox by default opens your home page in a new window when you use ctrl+n, and if you use ctrl+t to open a new tab, the new tab is blank.
i use it to group related sites together in a single window.
the rest of the keyboard shortcuts are listed in the firefox help.
downloads by default, firefox saves all downloaded files on your desktop.
all the scripts are stored on a wiki so  anyone can share and update them.
inside the mozilla\firefox\profiles folder on your system, you’ll see a folder with a name like v7qf3bzn.default.
on the view menu are several sort options which apply to the bookmarks sidebar as well as the bookmarks manager.
fonts the first thing i do when i install firefox is open the tools/options dialog and adjust a few of the settings there.
the display resolution setting has an unusual user interface.
on a windows 2000 or xp system, this is located in: c:\documents and settings\your name\application data\mozilla\firefox\profiles that’s a hidden folder, so you’ll need to use tools/options on the windows explorer folder window and go to the view tab, then turn on the show hidden files and folders option.
for example, i often investigate several topics in parallel.
but still, it was cool to see.
you can easily sort them by name, though.
so, you can type “archive” in the address bar, hit ctrl+shift+enter, and you’re at the internet archive.
then i hold down the ctrl key and click on various links from the search results.
so back in the options dialog’sdownloads page, i set it toask me where to save every file.
thegooglebar brings these goodies to firefox.
i’ve noticed that it is impossible to log in as a registered user  here atmg.to using internet explorer, even though other browsers work fine.
googlebar firefox includes a basic google search (along with several other searches) in its standard toolbar, but it doesn’t have all of the features of the google toolbar for ie.
i just saw something amazing in my site stats: of the browsers that awstats recognizes (which is most of them), internet explorer accounts for fewer than 50% of the visits tomg.to in september.
the default setting is the most recent tab/window , which i don’t like at all.
if you don’t mind a bit of text editing, this is easy to do.
by default, firefox uses the mediocre times new roman and arial fonts.
you don’t specify the resolution directly; instead you select other… in the dropdown combo box, and then another dialog pops up with a line you’re supposed to measure.
this is where you can do some interesting customization.
but there’s no need to wait for reason to fix their site.
copy usercontent-example.css to usercontent.css and then edit that new file.
follow the same procedure described for clone window to install it.
this is your actual firefox profile folder.
last month, the top browsers were: 70.0% internet explorer 13.1% firefox 5.7% mozilla 4.4% opera 3.3% safari this month to date, they are: 49.7% internet explorer 16.4% firefox 12.4% opera 10.9% mozilla 4.5% safari of course, time will tell if this is a real trend or just the normal fluctuation of a new site.
i’ve noticed that it is impossible to log in as a registered user here atmg.to using internet explorer, even though other browsers work fine.
finally, i change the display resolution to 120 dpi to match my windows setting.
usercontent-example.css is about the content of a web page, and it’s the one we’re interested in here.
in a fresh firefox installation, there are two files here with a few examples of what you can do.
ctrl+b opens the handy bookmarks sidebar.
drag that into the bookmarks sidebar wherever you want it.
i keep a downloads folder with subfolders for the various programs and files i download.
here is a script from ibm’s new coscripter, to update your facebook status:* go to "http://www.facebook.com" it reads just like the instructions you might write down for someone, but it’s an actual executable script.
it’s been years since i’ve seen this happen on any site.
if you don’t find it, use start/find/files or folders to search for the firefox folder.
this is too strange to believe, but it is true.
i like to keep my firefox lean and fast, so i only use a few of them.
that’s nifty, but i just wanted to set it to 120 dpi, so i tried various values in the dialog until i found that 6.35 centimeters was the magic number.
michael geary | sat, 2007-09-08 22:56   category browsers here is a script from ibm’s new coscripter, to update your facebook  status: * go to "http://www.facebook.com" * enter your  "e-mail address"(e.g.
and .com; just enter the domain name without those and hit ctrl+enter.
now i know why: internet explorer does not set a cookie for two-letter domains (microsoft  knowledge base) ie and 2-letter domain-names (crisp’s blog)
georgia and verdana are much more readable choices for theserif and sans-serif fonts.
add this text to the end and save the file: now close all firefox browser windows, re-open firefox and visit hit & run again.
there are a lot more extensions than that.
if you haven’t tried it out yet, i highly recommend it.
inside that folder is a folder called chrome.
even if you like to use the bookmarks menu to access your bookmarks, the sidebar is a great for creating them.
here’s my basic set: ie view alas, there are still some websites that are hard coded to work only with internet explorer, andie view makes it convenient to get to those sites.
userchrome-example.css is for customizing the “chrome”, things like the menu bar, toolbars, and such.
for the bookmarks menu, open the menu and right-click on any of the bookmarks, then selectsort by name.
it’s easy enough to fix this with ctrl+plus, but a better fix is to override reason’s style sheet.
wed,  2007-09-05 08:14 category browsers this is too strange to believe, but it is true.
so each window contains a set of related search results.
on a windows 98 or windows me system, the firefox profile is likely to be in: c:\windows\application data\mozilla\firefox\profiles that location may be different if you’ve enabled multi-user settings in the users control panel.
like clone window, googlebar isn’t listed on the official firefox update site yet.
every time i look at one of the firefox extension sites i see something else i’m tempted to try, such as the niftywayback extension which gives you easy access to historical versions of sites from theinternet archive’s wayback machine.
one limitation here is that changes in userchrome.css apply to all sites that happen to use the same style tag, so this may affect other sites besides the one you want to customize.
this doesn’t include rss feeds, just browser visits.
firefox does that too, and it also lets you use shift+enter for a .net site and ctrl+shift+enter for a .org site.
firefox’s tabbed browsing is wonderful, btw.
the font settings i listed above will fix most of the problems at hit & run.
then i may have some other topic to research, so i open another new window and repeat the same procedure.
extensions firefox has hundreds of extensions available from the official site and the unofficialtexturizer site.
these pages all open as tabs in that same window.
firefox is also highly customizable.
now i know why: internet explorer does not set a cookie for two-letter domains (microsoft knowledge base) ie and 2-letter domain-names (crisp’s blog)
on the general page, i click the fonts & colors button and choose better fonts.
i also change both of the size (pixels) settings to 18, and the minimum font size to 14 .
you can sort the bookmarks sidebar (ctrl+b) by opening the separate bookmarks manager usingbookmarks/manage bookmarks.
tabbed browsing in the advanced page of the options dialog, i change the open links from other applications in setting to a new window.
first, you need to find the “profile” folder for firefox.
typically i start by opening a new firefox window and doing a google search.
mozilla firefox is a mighty fine browser right out of the box.
i set its options tonew window command should open: cloned window and new tab command should open: cloned tab.
i like ie’s window cloning, so the clone window extension fixes this.
clone window isn’t listed on the official firefox update site, so when you click the installation link it you’ll get a warning at the top of the firefox window that www.pikey.me.uk is trying to install software on your computer.
tlau@tlau.org ) into the "email:"  textbox * enter your password into the "password:" textbox * click the "login" button * click the "update your status..." link * enter your  status into the status field
update to internet explorer’s cookie jar (ieblog)
it’s a great way to organize related pages, and you can save the entire set of tabs in a window together in a bookmark folder to re-open them as a group later.
keyboard shortcuts you probably know that internet explorer lets you go to a .com site without typing the www.
the one remaining problem is that the type used for comment text is still too small.
here are some basic tweaks that make firefox even better.
the installer is locatedhere (or via the link above).