1) internet explorer 6 and 7 block pop-up windows.
some guy called richmurrils  seems to think so and comments: that's the funniest thing i've read in ages.
i  also co-host a pc and console game related podcast calledgamercast.
while internet explorer 8 blocked 81% of malware before it reached the machine.
the things that windows do to make it harder (for an exploit to work), macs don't do.
a single vulnerability isn't anything unusual.
why didn't you go after ie or [firefox]?
5) internet explorer 7 already has tabbed browsing.
so not only is it more difficult to exploit vulnerabilities on internet  explorer 8 on windows vista and up.
on windows, the code might show up
code execution holes everywhere.
hacking into macs is so much easier.
some guy called richmurrils seems to think so and comments: that's the funniest thing i've read in ages.
4) firefox still has plenty of bugs that impact developers and designers.
categories: technology tags: firefox, internet explorer, web browsers powered by b2evolution.
exploiting internet explorer not only requires them to  find a vulnerability and exploit it
in reality vulnerabilities like these are rarely what normal people come up  against on the internet.
of course nobody bothers reporting that this vulnerability can only be exploited on internet explorer 6, a 10 year old version and on windows xp a 10 year old operating system.
the underlying os doesn't have anti-exploit stuff built into it.
they let the process run with the same rights as the user which is fundamentally less secure then running the browser in its own little sandbox where it can't get out.
the main problem is phishing and malware.
do mozilla even bother to support such old products?
if you want to get in contact with me feel free to send me ane-mail.
charlie miller a security researcher talks a  bit about this back during the pwn 2 own contest: why safari?
disclaimer: this is my personal blog, and any opinions voiced here are my own,  they may not be representative of my employer or other organisations.
technology wise i'm a microsoft mvp for windows desktop experience  and am actively involved in several online computing related communities.
both of which are socially engineered to get the computer user to either hand over their data willingly or willingly install an application that's malicious.
of course what he really demonstrates is how little richmurrils actually  knows about technology or security, i expect he was one of the people telling  people to turn uac off /facepalm, and how tech radar can't report things in  context.
those are two hurdles that macs don't have.
categories:technology tags: firefox, google, internet explorer, security, web browsers, windows 7, windows vista
it's clear that all three browsers (safari, ie and firefox) have bugs.
your site works fine in internet explorer.
with my safari exploit, i put the code into a process and i know exactly  where it's going to be.
with  stories about how it is completely unsecure.
4) firefox still has  plenty of bugs that impact developers and designers.
safari on the mac is easier to exploit.
"if you were to ask me 'what's the most secure browser?'
so i'll put things in context even if they can't be bothered to,  firefox 3.5 has had at least 35 documented security vulnerabilities.
of course what he really demonstrates is how little richmurrils actually knows about technology or security, i expect he was one of the people telling people to turn uac off /facepalm, and how tech radar can't report things in context.
but it also requires them to somehow break  out of the protected mode sandbox.
the cosmos interpreted by some conscious matter of  the cosmos.
the things that  windows do to make it harder (for an exploit to work), macs don't do.
but i don't know where it is.
namely protected mode made possible  by uac.
of course having a vulnerability isn't a good thing, but why is this getting so much attention, especially considering it's not even being used to target individuals?
they let  the process run with the same rights as the user which is fundamentally less  secure then running the browser in its own little sandbox where it can't get  out.
linux based operating systems can have hundreds of vulnerabilities discovered each year, windows historically has had the fewest usually at just a dozen or two every year discovered.
ie8 blocks 83% of phishing websites  completely, compared to firefox which blocks 80%.
you don't have to jump through hoops and deal  with all the anti-exploit mitigations you'd find in windows (vista and  later -paul).
content copyright © paul smith 1996-2011.
charlie miller a security researcher talks a bit about this back during the pwn 2 own contest: why safari?
so how does internet explorer compare?
ok let's hand  control of the internet over to mozilla corporation.
tech radar recently interviewed microsoft's head security guy in the uk  cliff evans.
even if i get to the code, it's not executable.
alright sure the vulnerability still exists in later versions, but it cannot be exploited on newer systems because of the additional security measures windows vista and later provide.
there's no randomization.
namely protected mode made possible by uac.
ie8 blocks 83% of phishing websites completely, compared to firefox which blocks 80%.
of course nobody bothers reporting that this vulnerability can only be  exploited on internet explorer 6, a 10 year old version and on windows xp a 10  year old operating system.
some of my astro-photos can be found in mygallery.
2) internet explorer 7 on windows vista is more secure than firefox.
of course having a vulnerability isn't a good thing, but why is this  getting so much attention, especially considering it's not even being used to  target individuals?
there's almost no hurdle to jump through on mac os x.
the malware and phishing filters are also  better on ie8, something that will protect most computer users.
while internet explorer 8  blocked 81% of malware before it reached the machine.
i would say internet explorer 8 – we're talking about a single vulnerability," he added.
you don't have to jump through hoops and deal with all the anti-exploit mitigations you'd find in windows (vista and later -paul).
of course 3rd parties could use protected mode on windows vista and later  like ie7 and 8 do.
firefox blocked less than 30%, and other browsers scored even worse (source).
firefox on  mac is pretty easy too.
so  how does internet explorer compare?
categories:technology tags: firefox, google, internet explorer, security, web  browsers, windows 7, windows vista 21st january 2010 16:53:14, 867 words,  2713 views 3 comments » we see you're using internet explorer
so evans was explaining how  switching away from internet explorer 8 isn't a good idea - something i agree  with.
with stories about how it is completely unsecure.
so internet explorer has been the media's main victim this past week.
of course 3rd parties could use protected mode on windows vista and later like ie7 and 8 do.
one last comment is on how well google and the media have spun this around from a story about how google got broken into and people's personal data was stolen into a story about how a 10 year old browser on a 10 year old system has a single vulnerability, without even asking why google are running such dated systems or without bothering to report that newer versions of ie aren't as susceptible.
with my safari exploit, i put the code into a process and i know exactly where it's going to be.
alright sure the vulnerability still exists in later versions, but it  cannot be exploited on newer systems because of the additional security  measures windows vista and later provide.
in reality vulnerabilities like these are rarely what normal people come up against on the internet.
exploiting internet explorer not only requires them to find a vulnerability and exploit it
the underlying os doesn't have anti-exploit stuff built  into it.
when using firefox a hacker only has to exploit code in the browser to run  code on the machine.
linux  based operating systems can have hundreds of vulnerabilities discovered each  year, windows historically has had the fewest usually at just a dozen or two  every year discovered.
firefox on mac is pretty easy too.
the malware and phishing filters are also better on ie8, something that will protect most computer users.
the other half is exploiting it.
and did a pretty bad job of it.
about me rss feed tags: firefox internet explorer 8 is more secure, and why the firefox fanboys and the  media need a security lesson
but that's only half the equation.
i would say  internet explorer 8 – we're talking about a single vulnerability,"  he added.
categories:  technology tags: firefox, internet explorer, web browsers 3rd february  2007 02:24:59, 63 words, 993 views 5 comments » paul smith's blog my main areas of interest can be divided up into  three neat little groups.
so not only is it more difficult to exploit vulnerabilities on internet explorer 8 on windows vista and up.
both of  which are socially engineered to get the computer user to either hand over  their data willingly or willingly install an application that's malicious.
firefox blocked less than  30%, and other browsers scored even worse (source).
but it also requires them to somehow break out of the protected mode sandbox.
code  execution holes everywhere.
one last comment is on how well google and the media have spun this around  from a story about how google got broken into and people's personal data was  stolen into a story about how a 10 year old browser on a 10 year old system has  a single vulnerability, without even asking why google are running such dated  systems or without bothering to report that newer versions of ie aren't as  susceptible.
2) internet  explorer 7 on windows vista is more secure than firefox.
the other half  is exploiting it.
i just ran into another one of these stupid things.
ok let's hand control of the internet over to mozilla corporation.
well i suppose the media have to knock microsoft, it's  about the only thing they can do when it comes to microsoft so this will have  to do.
nice spin department working there.
it's more about the operating system than the (target) program.
i'm an astronomer  and sceptic.
5) internet explorer  7 already has tabbed browsing.
politically i'm  a socialist.
well i suppose the media have to knock microsoft, it's about the only thing they can do when it comes to microsoft so this will have to do.
so evans was explaining how switching away from internet explorer 8 isn't a good idea - something i agree with.
when using firefox a hacker only has to exploit code in the browser to run code on the machine.
for people offering decent employment opportunities here's myresume.
so i'll put things in context even if they can't be bothered to, firefox 3.5 has had at least 35 documented security vulnerabilities.
update: mark informed me that chrome also runs in a sandbox.
ouch a single vulnerability that's bad right?
hacking  into macs is so much easier.
i know when i jump there, the code is there and i can execute it there.
i know when i jump there, the  code is there and i can execute it there.
but mozilla, opera and others simply don't bother.
science, politics and technology.
tech radar recently interviewed microsoft's head security guy in the uk cliff evans.