note that new incompatibilities may be introduced when a new browser version is released; developers will work to address serious compatibility problems as quickly as possible.
uits therefore suggests using internet explorer or firefox for the most reliable experience with oncourse.
- in internet explorer 8, if some pages are not displaying correctly, you may be able to resolve the problem by turning on compatibility view.
most features in oncourse work with most popular modern browsers.
note: to determine which browser version you're running, on a windows computer, click help, and then click about internet explorer or about mozilla firefox.
notices and alerts to access oncourse, which web browser should i use?
for example, if you're having difficulties accessing a link using firefox, close your browser, log into oncourse from internet explorer, and try to open the link again.
oncourse  is regularly tested withinternet
explorer (windows) and firefox (windows and mac os x), and the oncourse team tries to ensure there are no serious browser-specific bugs with these applications.
if you continue to have difficulties, contact your campussupport center.
in internet explorer 8, if some pages are not displaying correctly, you  may be able to resolve the problem by turning on compatibility view.
skip to content university information technology services services and support - accounts and passphrases - overview - eligibility - glossary - logging in at iu - your responsibilities as a computer user at iu - common tasks and troubleshooting - accounts - account termination - iu address book listings - passphrases - quotas - types of accounts - email - file storage - instructional database - logging in at iu - printing at iub - printing at iupui - research systems - web space - email - overview - email at each iu campus - email glossary - iu email systems - common tasks and troubleshooting - email policies - finding addresses - junk email - organizing email - problems sending or receiving email - reading email - sending email to groups of people - using attachments - viruses - internet, phone, & video connections - internet connections - connecting to the ads domain - current iu network status - ethernet - ethernet in campus housing - glossary - greeknet - mobile computing - outside isps - registering your computer - using dial-up - vpn - wireless - telephone services - telephone equipment - telephone features and instructions - operator services - rates and billing - regional campus technical support - support, repair, and troubleshooting - telephone services in campus housing - wireless and cellular services - video - purchasing - resources - streaming - videoconferencing - labs, classrooms, and instructional resources - labs - adaptive technology - available software and hardware - employment - getting help - locations, hours, and available seats - multimedia tools in the information commons - printing - reservations - software installation requests - standards and practices - classrooms - classrooms and equipment - classroom recording - facility and system design consulting - getting help - software installation requests - videoconferencing facilities - instructional resources - course development and management tools
oncourse is regularly tested withinternet
notes: - with the exception of safari in ios5, most mobile browsers for wireless phones and tablets do not support creating and editing content in thewysiwyg editor.
for general suggestions regarding system requirements and connection  speed, seegeneral system and connection requirements.
explorer (windows) and firefox (windows and  mac os x), and the oncourse team tries to ensure there are no serious  browser-specific bugs with these applications.
some people have reported better performance with one browser than with  another; if your browser's performance is not adequate, try the same task in  another browser.
for more, see microsoft's some web sites may not behave as expected in internet explorer.
during business hours, faculty can also get help  from theteaching and learning centers.
for more, see microsoft's some web  sites may not behave as expected in internet explorer.
you may get unexpected results if you use two browser windows to access  the same oncourse tool at the same time.
note: to determine which browser version you're running,  on a windows computer, clickhelp, and then click about internet explorer or about  mozilla firefox.
- web security and access - information systems - decision support services - enterprise applications - enterprise web technical services - geographic information systems - intelligent infrastructure - scholarly cyberinfrastructure - supercomputing and data analysis - digital library program - grid computing - services - software - systems - visualization - facilities and services - gis and remote sensing - storage - data capacitor - long-term central storage - slashtmp - temporary central storage - security and policies - security - reporting a technology incident - security recommendations - security tools - trustees security resolution - uiso security bulletins - policies - copyright and fair use - e-commerce - institutional and personal information - reporting a technology incident - technology policies at iu quick links - ask for help - knowledge base - services directory - staff list - it news and events - notices and alerts to access oncourse, which web browser should i use?
- you may get unexpected results if you use two browser windows to access the same oncourse tool at the same time.
some people have reported better performance with one browser than with another; if your browser's performance is not adequate, try the same task in another browser.
notes: with the exception of safari in ios5, most mobile browsers for wireless  phones and tablets do not support creating and editing content in thewysiwyg  editor.
on a mac, from the firefox or safari menu, select about mozilla firefox or about safari .
- last updated: tue, 29 nov 2011
if you continue to have difficulties, contact  your campussupport center.
- about uits - contact uits - job opportunities - news room - rates and costs - site map - comments - copyright 2005-2010, the trustees of indiana university - copyright complaints
- for general suggestions regarding system requirements and connection speed, seegeneral system and connection requirements.
for best results, use one browser window to work in oncourse.
in internet explorer, click tools and then compatibility view.
uits also recommends using the most up-to-date version of your preferred browser.
uits also recommends using the most up-to-date version of your preferred  browser.
for best results, use one browser  window to work in oncourse.
current versions of firefox and internet explorer are available to  indiana university students, faculty, and staff viaiuware.
- assessment tools - collaboration tools - course management tools - creating your own instructional media/web materials - data and web server access for instruction - materials, media, and assistance for instructors - resources to keep teaching - funding for instructional technology projects - geospatial data - instructional strategies - library technology resources - media collections - media duplicating - one-on-one consulting - special resources for your students - accessibility - adaptive technology and accessibility centers - adaptive technology at iu - oncourse accessibility - ada enabled labs - software and hardware - software - iuware online - obtaining and licensing software - requesting software on uits shared systems - resources for help with software - software on campus - hardware - buying hardware - disposing of old hardware - hardware on campus - hardware repairs - intelligent infrastructure - removable storage media - training and workshops - certification and testing - instructor-led training - request training - self-study training - seminars, lectures, and users' groups - training in adaptive software - web publishing - central hosting - online instructional resources - podcasting - policies - resources and information - web development tools
uits therefore suggests using  internet explorer or firefox for the most reliable experience with oncourse.
note that new  incompatibilities may be introduced when a new browser version is released;  developers will work to address serious compatibility problems as quickly as  possible.
during business hours, faculty can also get help from theteaching and learning centers.
for example, if you're having difficulties accessing a link  using firefox, close your browser, log into oncourse from internet explorer,  and try to open the link again.
in  internet explorer, clicktools and then compatibility view.
current versions of firefox and internet explorer are available to indiana university students, faculty, and staff viaiuware.