also check "installed add-ons"  under the former, and "warn me if this will disable any of my  add-ons" under the latter.
not long ago an attempt was made to spoof firefox's address bar to fool people into thinking they were on a site other than the one they were actually visiting when a link opened in a new window.
the version of ie7 for vista adds the protected mode, which allows web sites to access only the temporary internet files folder on your pc.
the web's not  getting any safer, and you need all the protection you can get.
there's another simple step you can take to improve firefox's security:  make sure you have the browser set to update automatically.
you can also disable this  feature by typing about:config in the address bar, pressing enter, navigating  to dom.disable_window_open_feature.location, and double-clicking it to change  it to "true".
still, you may not have your browser configured to provide optimum  security.
just because mozilla's open-source browser has a reputation for security doesn't mean you can use it to visit any site on the web without a care in the world.
stay safe while browsing with firefox just because mozilla's open-source browser has a reputation for security  doesn't mean you can use it to visit any site on the web without a care in the  world.
the current version is 2.0.0.12; to check your copy's version, click help > about mozilla firefox, and look for the version number under the product's name.
another great new feature in ie7--for xp and vista alike--is the phishing filter.
batten down ie7's hatches the version of ie7 for vista adds the protected mode, which allows web  sites to access only the temporary internet files folder on your pc.
delete browsing history >
but while you're in the advanced options  settings, make sure "automatically check for internet explorer  updates" is checked in the browsing section.
to verify that the program updates automatically, click tools > options > advanced > updates, and make sure firefox is checked under "automatically check for updates to."
if you use firefox regularly and you haven't added noscript, download and install it, and in no time you'll wonder how you ever browsed without it.
there have been some reports of protected mode causing problems, so if a particular page won't load or run correctly, disabling this feature may solve the glitch, though i don't recommend keeping protected mode off.
there is a free add-on available for fireefox, called noscript , that lets you decide which scripts can run on which web pages on a case-by-case basis.
web sites often know the page you were on before you opened one of their pages.
according to microsoft, this feature is on by default for the internet,  intranet, and restricted zones, but disabled for the trusted sites and local  machine zones.
to block this referrer header, type about:config in the address bar,  press enter, navigate to network.http.sendrefererheader, double-click it, and  set the integer value to 0.
in ie7 you can wipe out your browser history, temporary internet files, cookies, saved form data, and saved passwords at one time by clicking tools >
you may also want to check "automatically download and install the update" under "when updates to firefox are found."
or erase each category separately by clicking the appropriate button in the delete browsing history dialog box.
to activate it, click tools > phishing filter > turn on automatic website checking > ok.
click ok when you're done.
you will see "protected mode: on" in the status bar when it's active, or click tools > internet options > security, and make sure "enable protected mode (requires restarting internet explorer)" is checked at the bottom of each zone.
unfortunately, choosing tools > phishing filter > phishing filter  settings merely opens the advanced internet options dialog box, where you can  scroll down to the phishing filter section under security, only to find that  your only two options are to disable the filter, and to "turn off  automatic website checking."
still, you may not have your browser configured to provide optimum security.
if  you use firefox regularly and you haven't added noscript, download and install  it, and in no time you'll wonder how you ever browsed without it.
you can also disable this feature by typing about:config in the address bar, pressing enter, navigating to dom.disable_window_open_feature.location, and double-clicking it to change it to "true".
web sites often know the page you were on before you opened one of their  pages.
not long ago an attempt was made to spoof firefox's address bar to fool  people into thinking they were on a site other than the one they were actually  visiting when a link opened in a new window.
according to microsoft, this feature is on by default for the internet, intranet, and restricted zones, but disabled for the trusted sites and local machine zones.
modern browsers are much better than their predecessors were at keeping your web activity private and your data safe.
take a few minutes to give internet explorer 7 and firefox 2 a safety  check.
you may also want to check  "automatically download and install the update" under "when  updates to firefox are found."
there is a free add-on available for fireefox, called noscript , that lets  you decide which scripts can run on which web pages on a case-by-case basis.
get into the habit of covering your browsing tracks on a regular basis.
you will see "protected mode: on" in the status bar  when it's active, or click tools > internet options > security, and make  sure "enable protected mode (requires restarting internet explorer)"
there have been some reports of protected mode causing problems, so if a  particular page won't load or run correctly, disabling this feature may solve  the glitch, though i don't recommend keeping protected mode off.
to verify that the program updates automatically, click tools > options  > advanced > updates, and make sure firefox is checked under  "automatically check for updates to."
there's another simple step you can take to improve firefox's security: make sure you have the browser set to update automatically.
another great new feature in ie7--for xp and vista alike--is the phishing  filter.
to activate it, click  tools > phishing filter > turn on automatic website checking > ok.
or erase each category separately by clicking  the appropriate button in the delete browsing history dialog box.
the simplest way to avoid this is by setting firefox to open links in a new tab rather than a new window: click tools > options > tabs, and make sure "a new tab" is selected under "new pages should be opened in."
to block this referrer header, type about:config in the address bar, press enter, navigate to network.http.sendrefererheader, double-click it, and set the integer value to 0.
in  ie7 you can wipe out your browser history, temporary internet files, cookies,  saved form data, and saved passwords at one time by clicking tools > delete  browsing history >
the simplest way to avoid this is  by setting firefox to open links in a new tab rather than a new window: click  tools > options > tabs, and make sure "a new tab" is selected  under "new pages should be opened in."
unfortunately, choosing tools > phishing filter > phishing filter settings merely opens the advanced internet options dialog box, where you can scroll down to the phishing filter section under security, only to find that your only two options are to disable the filter, and to "turn off automatic website checking."
but while you're in the advanced options settings, make sure "automatically check for internet explorer updates" is checked in the browsing section.
why the filter is off by default i'll never know.
is checked at the bottom of each zone.
the web's not getting any safer, and you need all the protection you can get.
set  internet explorer and firefox to maximize your security friday, 01  february 2008 modern browsers are much better than their predecessors were at keeping  your web activity private and your data safe.
the current version  is 2.0.0.12; to check your copy's version, click help > about mozilla  firefox, and look for the version number under the product's name.
take a few minutes to give internet explorer 7 and firefox 2 a safety check.
also check "installed add-ons" under the former, and "warn me if this will disable any of my add-ons" under the latter.