the plug-ins that chrome uses access information only within the browser itself and can't read information from other areas on your computer.
chrome's built-in web store simplifies searching for and installing browser add-ons.
we tested six leading browsers to  learn where each one excels…and fails.
for our appraisals of five popular mobile  browsers for the android operating system--chrome for android beta, dolphin  browser hd, firefox for android, opera mini, and opera mobile--see "the  best browsers for your android phone."
rockmelt 0.9, the browser built on google's chromium framework that comes  integrated with facebook, was the surprise third-place finisher.
nevertheless, it offers more security options than most competing browsers, and it processed html 5 code quickly.
mozilla's firefox 10 finished a close second, processing html 5 graphics faster than any other browser and sporting a huge library of add-ons to make browsing easier and more fun.
speed up everything! pcworld shows you the secrets to improve performance on all your hardware.
among the pc browser  contenders, google's chrome version 17 narrowly captured the crown as the top  performer overall in our tests, thanks to speedy java­script rendering and  page load times, excellent security tools, and a respectable array of add-ons  and features.
many popular websites--including facebook, reddit, twitter, and youtube--use javascript because it makes those sites more immediately responsive, and javascript-heavy pages behave better in chrome.
posting comment ... trade in your old printer & save!
no integrated rss reader • plain design add-ons for chrome 17 include popular mobile games.
sandboxing prevents malware that uses plug-in exploits from spreading via chrome through your pc.
on the downside, chrome lacks an integrated rss reader, which means that you'll have to come up with your own approach to handling multiple rss feeds if you subscribe to more than one.
are you looking for something blazing fast?
or is strong security your top priority?
we had  expected the browser's facebook integration and social-reading sidebar to slow  its performance; but in our hands-on testing, rockmelt worked faster than most  of its rivals, and it permits you to share links and chat with friends on  facebook without having to go directly to the social network.
and for advice on how to get the  most from your laptop/desktop version of chrome, firefox, internet explorer, or  safari, see "21 ways to buff up your browser.")
mozilla's firefox 10 finished a close second, processing html 5  graphics faster than any other browser and sporting a huge library of add-ons  to make browsing easier and more fun.
it may not be perfect for everyone, but chrome is a well-rounded browser that should meet most people's needs.
by megan geuss, pcworld illustration by papercut.freveryone needs a web browser, but with so many different ones available, deciding which one is best for you can be hard.
become an android authority play music or games, run productivity apps and essential utilities.
the browser also performed admirably in our speed test, fully loading an image-heavy page in just under 4 seconds.
(to download any of these six browsers, visit our handydownloads page.
the industry standard idg knowledge hub idg technetwork idg international sites © 1998-2012, pcworld communications, inc.name city
(to download any of these six browsers,  visit our handydownloads page.
if your online wanderings take you to a foreign-language website, chrome will recognize the language and offer to translate it for you in a matter of seconds.
we examined the latest versions of six widely used desktop and laptop browsers--chrome 17, firefox 10, internet explorer 9, opera 11.61, rockmelt 0.9, and safari 5.1.2--paying special attention to such variables as speed, safety, extra features, and extensions.
chrome wins our top spot thanks to its ease of use, numerous extensions and add-ons, and superb performance.
safari 5.1.2 didn't perform especially well on any of our benchmarks; its only noteworthy redeeming quality, particularly for windows users, is the solid security it provides.
this lighting-fast speed comes from a feature new to chrome 17 (released in early february) that lets the browser start loading the url you type in the address bar before you press.
subscribe to the laptop link newsletter - weekly homeproducts visit other idg sites: select one cio computerworld idg connect cso demo gamepro games.net infoworld itworld javaworld macworld macuser network world pc world
sandboxed design helps prevent malware infections cons: •
not all web browsers are created equal.
some are faster; some are more  versatile; others are especially secure.
by megan geuss, pcworld illustration by papercut.freveryone needs a web browser, but with so many  different ones available, deciding which one is best for you can be hard.
and for advice on how to get the most from your laptop/desktop version of chrome, firefox, internet explorer, or safari, see "21 ways to buff up your browser.")
to complement its impressive performance, google's browser has some worthy features that others lack.
or do you need lots and lots of add-ons?
chrome is also one of the most secure browsers on this list, because it is sandboxed:
owners of smartphones or tablets running android 4.0 (ice cream sandwich) will appreciate the ability to sync their chrome bookmarks and web history to those mobile devices.
print which browser should you use?
the add-ons range from simple (an evernote plug-in, for example), to complex (such as full versions of angry birds and bastion).
microsoft's internet explorer 9 earned a rather low score for its features: it doesn't offer themes for your browser, and you can't sync favorites unless you use windows live mesh.
you can customize chrome with web apps, themes, and extensions to suit your preferences.
we had expected the browser's facebook integration and social-reading sidebar to slow its performance; but in our hands-on testing, rockmelt worked faster than most of its rivals, and it permits you to share links and chat with friends on facebook without having to go directly to the social network.
opera 11.61 distinguished itself from its rivals with blazing page-load speeds and a great mobile browser, but it came up short in html 5 processing.
get the superguide now!
google's browser really shone in our javascript test, far outdistancing its competitors.
would you recommend this story?
no once you click submit you will be asked to sign in or register an account if you are not already a member.
we examined the latest versions of six widely used desktop and laptop  browsers--chrome 17, firefox 10, internet explorer 9, opera 11.61, rockmelt  0.9, and safari 5.1.2--paying special attention to such variables as speed,  safety, extra features, and extensions.
overall best pros: • lets you close slow or frozen pages without restarting the browser •
for our appraisals of five popular mobile browsers for the android operating system--chrome for android beta, dolphin browser hd, firefox for android, opera mini, and opera mobile--see "the best browsers for your android phone."
and what chrome lacks in flashiness, it certainly makes up for in performance.
or is strong security your top  priority?
while reading our assessments, bear in mind that  every browser behaves differently depending on the hardware setup, the internet  connection, and the modifications you make to your browser (with add-ons, the  amount of space allotted for cache, and the like).
safari 5.1.2 didn't perform especially well on any of our benchmarks; its  only noteworthy redeeming quality, particularly for windows users, is the solid  security it provides.
a new xerox colorqube® can increase print quality and reduce costs.
and unlike with firefox, you don't need to restart your browser every time you install a new extension or app.
the translations, powered by google translate, aren't exceptionally accurate, but they can at least give you a basic idea of what the page is about.
opera 11.61 distinguished itself from its rivals with blazing page-load  speeds and a great mobile browser, but it came up short in html 5 processing.
among the pc browser contenders, google's chrome version 17 narrowly captured the crown as the top performer overall in our tests, thanks to speedy javascript rendering and page load times, excellent security tools, and a respectable array of add-ons and features.
are  you looking for something blazing fast?
rockmelt 0.9, the browser built on google's chromium framework that comes integrated with facebook, was the surprise third-place finisher.
nevertheless, it offers more security options than  most competing browsers, and it processed html 5 code quickly.
for starters, chrome runs tabs as separate processes--so if one of them crashes, the entire browser doesn't go down with it.
chrome's minimalist design isn't eye-catching, but its lean toolbar leaves more room for viewing web pages.
microsoft's internet explorer 9 earned a rather low score for its features:  it doesn't offer themes for your browser, and you can't sync favorites unless  you use windows live mesh.
while reading our assessments, bear in mind that every browser behaves differently depending on the hardware setup, the internet connection, and the modifications you make to your browser (with add-ons, the amount of space allotted for cache, and the like).