this software is available  for no charge to all online students.
students in online courses need a high degree of self-motivation to compensate for the absence of a classroom and face-to-face faculty interaction.
students should be comfortable with basic computer skills, including: - sending and receiving email - researching topics via the web - attaching, sending, and opening documents - participating in online chats - functioning in library databases computer hardware recommended system specifications minimum requirements processor speed hard drive 3ghz or dual core equivalent 1ghz 40gb 20gb memory (ram) 2gb 512mb optical drive dvd-rom cd-rom network lan, dsl or cable modem dial-up not recommended for wimba classroom sound card sound card sound speakers speakers usb headset mini-plug headset windows operating system windows xp, windows vista (32-bit is preferred).windows 7 is not compatible with blackboard at this time.
this software is available for no charge to all online students.
did your supporting documents not reach us in time?
view the schedule print | email to a friend | share computer hardware & software guidelines college of nursing and health professions the blackboard learning systemtm is the web-based course management system in use at thecollege of nursing and health professions.
- all students must activate their drexel email account for use in our online courses.
- online degrees - bachelor's degrees online - master's degrees online - certificate programs online - online degrees by college - all online programs - programs by industry - admissions & deadlines - admissions criteria - deadlines - tuition - general tuition rates - rates for military - rates for alumni - rates for corporations & associations - financial assistance - financing - financial assistance overview - federal aid - grants & scholarships - private loans - contact a financial counselor - financial aid presentation - deferring tuition - partnership program - how it works - online demo - faqs - technical requirements - apply - apply now - continue application - reapply - application assistance - news - top stories - drexel in the media - press relases - drexel online blog - about us - drexel university online - accreditation - in the news - drexel online blog - contact us - prospective students - applicants - rn to bsn questions - financial assistance
if you have already downloaded and installed ie8, please follow these directions from microsoft (click on compatibility view on the left) on how to set your browser to compatibility view, which will help correct some of the issues between ie8 and blackboard.
drexel e-learning, inc.
(please note: google chrome browser is not supported) - if you have windows vista with internet explorer 7 and run into problems, we recommend you use mozilla firefox 3.x.
computer software the following set of software packages is required: - microsoft office is required.
all of these programs are available  free of charge from the manufacturers.
all students must activate their drexel email account for use in our  online courses.
if you have  already downloaded and installed ie8, please follow these directions from  microsoft (click on compatibility view on the left) on how to set your browser to compatibility view, which will help correct  some of the issues between ie8 and blackboard.
internet explorer 8 has not yet been certified by blackboard.
(please note: google chrome browser is not supported)
click here for more... online open house!
computer software the following set of software packages is required: microsoft office is required.
your internet service provider browser may not be compatible with the  online courseware provided by drexel university.
internet explorer 8 on xp and windows is supported by blackboard, but you must use it in compatibility mode.
internet connectivity students need access to a computer with internet capability to connect to  the drexel online courses.
click here for more... tuition reduction does your organization provide tuition benefits through drexel university online?
google chrome is not supported.
mac os 10.4 safari 2.0, 3.0, 4.0 firefox 2.0, 3.0, 3.5 your blackboard course may use wimba classroom as a synchronous  virtual class meeting room.
since some courses include mandatory virtual  classroom sessions, you will need to plan your schedule around these  “live” sessions.
you must have access to windows xp or windows vista 32-bit.
instructors set specific deadlines for work throughout the term and class participation — including live virtual classroom meetings, threaded discussions, and regular email communication — is critical to success and is factored into a grade.
the classes may be more convenient, but they are just as challenging.
- your internet service provider browser may not be compatible with the online courseware provided by drexel university.
prior to the first scheduled classroom  session, please make sure your computer is set up properly and do not wait  until the last minute to access your wimba classroom.
broadband internet access sound soundcard with microphone and speakers soundcard with microphone and speakers windows supported browsers os browser supported windows vista windows xp internet explorer 7.0, 8.0 firefox 2.0, 3.0, 3.5 macintosh supported browsers os browser supported mac os 10.5 mac os 10.4 safari 2.0, 3.0, 4.0 firefox 2.0, 3.0, 3.5 your blackboard course may use wimba classroom as a synchronous virtual class meeting room.
you can activate your email account with drexel at http://accounts.drexel.edu once you have completed the registration process.
anti-virus software: norton anti-virus software is required and is available free to all  students.
instructors schedule the class meetings ahead of  time for your convenience.
check with your instructor to see what the wimba  requirements are for your course.
in addition,you will need to purchase a headset with microphone for these sessions.
the recommended specifications should be adequate for a student for 3 or 4 years of use without being upgraded - if you are purchasing a new computer, use the recommended specs.
- you can download this from our software download center - internet browser: - internet explorer 7 is recommended for viewing all online courses.
if you are using an existing computer, they should meet the minimum requirements to provide you with an adequate experience.
you can download this from our software download center internet browser: internet explorer 7 is recommended for viewing all online courses.
visit the programs you're interested in learning more about.
would you like to start in a different term than the one you initially selected?
reapply did you already start an application but missed the deadline?
mac operating system mac os 10.4 or 10.5 browser internet explorer 7 recommended.
- anti-virus software: - norton anti-virus software is required and is available free to all students.
to test your existing  browser's capability, go to the college'sinteractive browser test.
in addition,you will  need to purchase a headset with microphone for these sessions.
blackboard makes it possible for faculty to deliver entire courses online or to supplement traditional on-campus classes with online content.
prior to the first scheduled classroom session, please make sure your computer is set up properly and do not wait until the last minute to access your wimba classroom.
please note: - students in any np or clinical trials research track must use a windows based computer.
- corporate contacts - current students college of nursing and health professions hardware & software guidelines military tuition reduction special tuition reductions for military members, spouses & immediate family.
since some courses include mandatory virtual classroom sessions, you will need to plan your schedule around these “live” sessions.
internet connectivity students need access to a computer with internet capability to connect to the drexel online courses.
business degrees & online mba | clinical research |communications | computer science | education | engineering | healthcare informatics | information systems | library science | medical billing and coding | nursing | psychology | public health | technology | ecatalog | site map | privacy policy | drexel university online ©2012
the  following plug-ins are required for use with our online programs:adobe reader,  javascript, macromedia flash player, shockwave player, quicktime player,  realone player, and windows media player.
business degrees & online mba | clinical research  |communications | computer science | education | engineering |   healthcare informatics |  information systems |  library science |  medical billing and coding | nursing |  psychology | public health |  technology | ecatalog | site map | privacy policy | drexel  university online ©2012
secure exam remote proctor devices are not compatible with mac os or windows vista 64-bit.
however, that machine may not remain suitable for years to come because software is always changing - there are add-ons that might be beneficial to the incoming student, such as a dvd-rw drive and dual monitors, but are not required wimba classroom student requirements instructor requirements hard drive 256 mb ram or higher recommended 256 mb ram or higher recommended internet access internet access at 56k or above (for best results, do not use wireless)
to obtain a copy of the required software, go to oursoftware download center, or you can write to customerservice@drexel.com or call 1-877-215-0009 (toll-free) or 215-895-0500.
if you have windows vista with internet explorer 7 and run into problems,  we recommend you use  mozilla firefox 3.x.
please read thecnhp guidelines, documentation, and best practices for using  wimba classroom.
all of these programs are available free of charge from the manufacturers.
the following plug-ins are required for use with our online programs:adobe reader, javascript, macromedia flash player, shockwave player, quicktime player, realone player, and windows media player.
to test your existing browser's capability, go to the college'sinteractive browser test.
please read thecnhp guidelines, documentation, and best practices for using wimba classroom.
to obtain a copy of the required  software, go to oursoftware download center, or you can write to  customerservice@drexel.com or call 1-877-215-0009 (toll-free) or 215-895-0500.
instructors schedule the class meetings ahead of time for your convenience.
check with your instructor to see what the wimba requirements are for your course.