look  for microsoft to continue to copy the successful features of firefox in the  future, and ignore those features that are not successful.
until one of these two options occurs, expect microsoft to continue to  interpret the web as they see fit, and in a way that will keep users on  microsoft products.
we have an application compatibility toolkit that logs and identifies changes in behavior due to changes in ie 7 and vista.
important issues positioniseverything piefecta-rigid.htm now works list-item whitespace bug fixed fixed absolutely buggy ii absolute positioned elements now use always correct containing block for positioning and size
a look at microsoft’s  history and their current position in the market place seems to point to the  idea that they will continue to buck the open source development trend and try  to mold the marketplace according to their vision.
as an example, in the platform we did not focus on any proprietary properties – though we may try out new features in the future using the official –ms- prefix, following the css extension mechanism.
because not every site is optimized for browsers such as firefox, web surfers who try to make the transition to firefox will find themselves on familiar sites that appear broken to them in firefox, but not internet explorer because internet explorer does not follow a standard set of rules that any browser can comply with.
ironically enough, microsoft and the w3c have the same goal, although microsoft would like to have uniformity on the web as a result of everyone using internet explorer.
features such as tabbed browsing, rss aggregation, and  others have proven to be more than just nice ideas or some programmer’s  pet hobby.
keep the advantage, eliminate the disadvantages there are a few reasons for people making the switch from internet explorer to firefox.
i like to thank especially the contributors on this blog for their participation.
however, with browsers such as firefox gaining market share, many people speculate that the new internet explorer will come with more than just security enhancements.
the only way for us to continue to improve our standards support is to get your help in changing your sites for ie7.
they will have this ability as long as they have  an overwhelming majority of the market share.
unfortunately for those who make their living designing and developing websites, there are only two hopeful outcomes to make life easier: either microsoft loses enough market share that they decide to adopt the w3cs recommendations, or microsoft successfully eliminates all browser competitors and is the only option for web surfers.
tags nested within li elements will no longer add extra bottom margin when hover occurs we no longer lose the image aspect ratio on refresh cleaned up our ident parsing according to css2.1 rules
ie 7 is a  stepping stone in our effort to improve our standards compliance (especially  around css).
microsoft is not worried about these people so much because they will always represent a small group of people.
i like to thank especially the contributors  on this blog for their participation.
as an example, in the platform we did not focus on any proprietary  properties – though we may try out new features in the future using the  official –ms- prefix, following the css extension mechanism.
but as we’ve been continually reminded, better standards support in ie also means some pages break.
about this author mark daoust is the owner of site-reference.com.
1 px dotted borders no longer render as dashed bottom margin bug on hover does not collapse margins several negative margin issues fixed recalc issues including relative positioning and/or negative margins are fixed now clsid attribute of  tag no longer limited to 128 characters :first-letter whitespace bug described in http://blogs.msdn.com/ie/archive/2005/09/02/460115.aspx fixed descendant selector now works properly for grand children when combined with other selectors first-line and first-letter now applies when there is no space between word :first-line and opening brace { pseudo-classes now are working as expected if selector is excluded
features firefox also offers unique features that users cannot get  with internet explorer.
discuss this article further at http://forums.site-reference.com/ (http://forums.site-reference.com/) minstrel 11-15-2006, 07:32 am so will microsoft finally adhere to the official css2 specifications?
about this author mark daoust is  the owner of site-reference.com.
however, with browsers such as firefox gaining market share,  many people speculate that the new internet explorer will come with more than  just security enhancements.
the result is nothing more than a major headache for those  developing a website that is accessible to all people, regardless of the  browser they are using.
the result is nothing more than a major headache for those developing a website that is accessible to all people, regardless of the browser they are using.
because not every site is optimized for browsers such as firefox, web  surfers who try to make the transition to firefox will find themselves on  familiar sites that appear broken to them in firefox, but not internet explorer  because internet explorer does not follow a standard set of rules that any  browser can comply with.
unfortunately, my eyes tend to glaze over and i tune out when i hit a  paraqgraph like this - just one more piece of microsoft conspiracy theory  rhetoric.
security security is probably the top reason people make the switch to firefox.
here is the list of css features and changes for ie7: bugs we fixed all bugs on positioniseverything.net except the “escaping floats” bug (which is planned for the future) peekaboo bug internet explorer and expanding box problem quirky percentages line-height bug border chaos disappearing list-background bug guillotine bug unscrollable content bug duplicate characters bug ie and italics doubled float-margin bug duplicate indent bug three pixel text jog creeping text bug missing first letter bug phantom box bug details on some of the other bugs (from sources other than the positioniseverything.net list) that we fixed: overflow now works correctly!
as long as microsoft is able to hold onto its market share through segmenting the market, they will do so.
your feedback made a difference in  deciding what issues to address.
addressed many relative positioning issues addressed many absolute positioned issues % calculations for height/width for abs positioned elements http://channel9.msdn.com/showpost.aspx?postid=191182  prolog no longer causes quirks mode html element truly independent of the body (now gets its own width, height etc.)
features such as tabbed browsing, built in  anti-spyware, and rss aggregating are all features that appear to be coming  with the rincon project.
additionally, the other side of this coin is at details on our css changes for ie7 (http://blogs.msdn.com/ie/archive/2006/08/22/712830.aspx): we are currently locking down ie7 for shipping and i wanted to give an update on the css work that went into ie7.
we have provided a set of documentation and tools to help you transition your pages to ie7: the ie 7 readiness toolkit pulls together documentation, tools, and guidance for developers, testers, and itpros to prepare sites, extensions and applications for ie 7.
ie developer information.
here  is the list of css features and changes for ie7: bugs we fixed all bugs on positioniseverything.net except the “escaping  floats” bug (which is planned for the future) peekaboo bug internet explorer and expanding box problem quirky percentages
since security is the one of the biggest reasons  people leave internet explorer, the people at microsoft have decided to make  security a major priority.
additionally, the other side of this coin is at details on  our css changes for ie7  (http://blogs.msdn.com/ie/archive/2006/08/22/712830.aspx): we  are currently locking down ie7 for shipping and i wanted to give an update on  the css work that went into ie7.
on the flip side, if the site works fine in internet explorer, but not in firefox, only a small percentage of your website visitors are inconvenienced.
vbulletin faq forums > vbulletin 3.8x modifications, tweaks and tricks >  html, design, dhtml, css > internet explorer 7.0 and css2 pda view full version : internet explorer 7.0 and css2 joeychgo   11-15-2006, 12:11 am  by mark daoust as many of you know, microsoft  has announced that it will be releasing internet explorer 7.0 this summer to  those who are on the xp operating system in a project code named  “rincon”.
i really like to thank everyone who helped us here.
css2 is nothing more than a set of recommendations for controlling layout and design of websites put forth by the world wide web consortium.
any person who does a little research  will quickly realize that most spyware programs focus on the vulnerabilities of  internet explorer, since that is what most surfers use.
now that most people have been introduced to spyware, awareness of pc security is becoming a bigger issue.
unfortunately for firefox, they have proved to be the market testing for microsoft, without microsoft having to spend any money on development.
microsoft is not worried about these people so much  because they will always represent a small group of people.
your feedback made a difference in deciding what issues to address.
there is the obvious group of people that truly believe microsoft is evil, so  they will do anything to avoid a microsoft product no matter how much it  inconveniences them.
what microsoft does  need to worry about is the real advantages of making the switch to firefox.
finally, we added new features from css2.1: min/max width/height support (also for images, which did not work in ie7b2) transparent borders fixed positioning support selectors: first-child, adjacent, attribute, child a couple of css 3 attribute selectors: prefix, suffix and substring since we were working already in the code base (also the general sibling selector)
there is the obvious group of people that truly believe microsoft is evil, so they will do anything to avoid a microsoft product no matter how much it inconveniences them.
a look at microsoft’s history  and their current position in the market place seems to point to the idea that  they will continue to buck the open source development trend and try to mold  the marketplace according to their vision.
keep the advantage, eliminate the disadvantages there are  a few reasons for people making the switch from internet explorer to firefox.
currently microsoft does not support all of css2s functionalities and also adds some functionalities that css2 never initially supported.
who knows how many countless computers were infected with spyware programs due to the vulnerabilities internet explorer presented.
(that means boxes do not automatically grow any more.)
and we know we have still a lot of work ahead of us.
we also work  very closely with the w3c css working group (which i am a member of) to help  clarify assumptions in our implementation and drive clarifications into the  spec.
all of this is wrapped up for you in the information index for ie 7.
making the switch to firefox not only gives surfers new security features that are not available with internet explorer, but they also remove themselves from the target of spyware creators.
any person who does a little research will quickly realize that most spyware programs focus on the vulnerabilities of internet explorer, since that is what most surfers use.
so will microsoft finally adhere to the official css2 specifications?
the result is that these surfers who try to make the  transition over to firefox will go back to the more familiar internet explorer.
what microsoft does need to worry about is the real advantages of making the switch to firefox.
developer and itpro checklists the ie developer center is the clearinghouse for all (past and present)
css2 is nothing more than a set of  recommendations for controlling layout and design of websites put forth by the  world wide web consortium.
since security is the one of the biggest reasons people leave internet explorer, the people at microsoft have decided to make security a major priority.
on the flip side, if the site works fine in internet  explorer, but not in firefox, only a small percentage of your website visitors  are inconvenienced.
back to  css2 what is css2 really?
unfortunately, my eyes tend to glaze over and i tune out when i hit a paraqgraph like this - just one more piece of microsoft conspiracy theory rhetoric.
microsoft views incompatibility as a competitive advantage most website developers develop a website for internet explorer first, and for the secondary browsers second.
security security is probably the top reason people make the switch  to firefox.
who knows how many countless computers were infected with  spyware programs due to the vulnerabilities internet explorer presented.
back to css2 what is css2 really?
we understand that we are far from  being done
as long as microsoft is able to hold onto its market share through segmenting  the market, they will do so.
the reason for this is obvious.
features firefox also offers unique features that users cannot get with internet explorer.
in all, we made over 200 behavior changes (bug fixes or new features) under strict mode to improve css2.1 compliance.
we also work very closely with the w3c css working group (which i am a member of) to help clarify assumptions in our implementation and drive clarifications into the spec.
chris originally outlined our plans for ie7, and we listened to a lot of feedback (blog, connect database, conferences, our wasp partnership etc.) to help us address the most grievous bugs and prioritize which features to put in for ie7.
unfortunately for those who make  their living designing and developing websites, there are only two hopeful  outcomes to make life easier: either microsoft loses enough market share that  they decide to adopt the w3c’s recommendations, or microsoft successfully  eliminates all browser competitors and is the only option for web surfers.
so will microsoft finally adhere to the  official css2 specifications?
currently microsoft does not support all of css2’s  functionalities and also adds some functionalities that css2 never initially  supported.
microsoft views  incompatibility as a competitive advantage most website developers  develop a website for internet explorer first, and for the secondary browsers  second.
fixed parsing bugs for multi- class selectors and class selectors that are combined with id selectors and many more we also extended our existing implementations to comply with w3c specifications: enable :hover on all elements not just on  background-attachment: fixed works on all elements – so eric meyer’s complexspiral demo works improved  fallback
look for microsoft to continue to copy the successful features of firefox in the future, and ignore those features that are not successful.
now that most people have been introduced to spyware, awareness of  pc security is becoming a bigger issue.
discuss this article further at  http://forums.site-reference.com/ (http://forums.site-reference.com/)  minstrel 11-15-2006, 07:32 am  so will microsoft finally adhere to the official  css2 specifications?
the cascading style sheet compatibility in internet explorer 7 - documentation on common breaking patterns and techniques you can do to avoid them.
in all, we  made over 200 behavior changes (bug fixes or new features) under strict mode to  improve css2.1 compliance.
if you have a website that works in  firefox, but appears broken in internet explorer, the site appears broken to  over 90% of its visitors.
a look at microsofts history and their current position in the market place seems to point to the idea that they will continue to buck the open source development trend and try to mold the marketplace according to their vision.
to preserve application compatibility we will not make any behavioral changes to “quirks mode” as it has been established since ie6.
the w3c’s goal for their recommendations is to  avoid market fragmentation on the internet, thus creating a more uniform and  more enjoyable surfing experience for web users.
all this work (with the exception of transparent pngs) has been done under the  switch only, since all changes required behavioral updates to be more in line what the css spec specifies.
finally, as we’ve talked about before, we have a web developer toolbar, which is a great aid during the development and debugging of a website.
the move is reportedly being done to improve the security of the ie browser.
until one of these two options occurs, expect microsoft to continue to interpret the web as they see fit, and in a way that will keep users on microsoft products.
and, in the interest of giving credit where credit is due, they should be commended for finally looking to improve the security of their browser.
microsoft, being the vast market share holder in  the browser market, can influence the behavior of website owners and web  surfers.
unfortunately for firefox, they have proved to be the market testing  for microsoft, without microsoft having to spend any money on development.
microsoft, being the vast market share holder in the browser market, can influence the behavior of website owners and web surfers.
a look at microsoft’s history and their current position in the market place seems to point to the idea that they will continue to buck the open source development trend and try to mold the marketplace according to their vision.
the real question, however, for any website owner and developer is whether microsoft will create a browser that interprets css2 in a standard way.
and, in the interest of giving credit where credit  is due, they should be commended for finally looking to improve the security of  their browser.
features such as tabbed browsing, built in anti-spyware, and rss aggregating are all features that appear to be coming with the rincon project.
to  preserve application compatibility we will not make any behavioral changes to  “quirks mode” as it has been established since ie6.
alpha channel png support (not a css feature but too important for designers to not call it out j) better standards support…
as we struggle to balance the needs of our user customers with the desires of web developers, we need your help.
the w3cs goal for their recommendations is to avoid market fragmentation on the internet, thus creating a more uniform and more enjoyable surfing experience for web users.
all this work (with the exception of transparent  pngs) has been done under the  switch only, since all changes  required behavioral updates to be more in line what the css spec specifies.
ironically enough, microsoft  and the w3c have the same goal, although microsoft would like to have  uniformity on the web as a result of everyone using internet explorer.
vbulletin faq forums > vbulletin 3.8x modifications, tweaks and tricks > html, design, dhtml, css > internet explorer 7.0 and css2 pda view full version : internet explorer 7.0 and css2 joeychgo 11-15-2006, 12:11 am by mark daoust as many of you know, microsoft has announced that it will be releasing internet explorer 7.0 this summer to those who are on the xp operating system in a project code named rincon.
we are already planning for the next ie release and will continue down the road of improving our css support.
parser bugs: * html, _property and /**/ comment bug select control: css style-able and not always on top auto-sizing of absolute positioned element with width:auto and right & left (great for 3 column layouts)
the real question, however, for any website  owner and developer is whether microsoft will create a browser that interprets  css2 in a standard way.
we understand that we are far from being done
they will have this ability as long as they have an overwhelming majority of the market share.
features such as tabbed browsing, rss aggregation, and others have proven to be more than just nice ideas or some programmers pet hobby.
ie 7 is a stepping stone in our effort to improve our standards compliance (especially around css).
the move is reportedly being done to improve the security  of the ie browser.
the :link selector works now for anchor tag with href set to bookmark addressed !
the result is that these surfers who try to make the transition over to firefox will go back to the more familiar internet explorer.
markus mielke powered by vbulletin® version 4.1.10 copyright © 2012 vbulletin solutions, inc.
if you have a website that works in firefox, but appears broken in internet explorer, the site appears broken to over 90% of its visitors.
making the switch to  firefox not only gives surfers new security features that are not available  with internet explorer, but they also remove themselves from the target of  spyware creators.
chris originally outlined our plans for ie7,  and we listened to a lot of feedback (blog, connect database, conferences, our  wasp partnership etc.) to help us address the most grievous bugs and prioritize  which features to put in for ie7.
information nested block elements now respect all overflow declarations (hidden, scroll, etc) fixed the opposing offset problem (absolute positioned element whit all four top, bottom left and right are present)