firefox 3.6.9 firefox is an open source browser from the mozilla foundation.
comments are closed.
and why should i use it?→ internet explorer is not the only web browser:
this entry was posted in cloud and social web,  tips and tagged browsers, cloud computing, google, internet, tools.
download chrome from google other browsers don’t count out microsoft, though.
it is the  second most popular browser, with about 30% of the market.
the other is the tremendous collection of add-ons that firefox users can install – most for free, which add functionality ranging from blocking ads to managing bookmarks to great tools like shareaholic (which makes it easy to share web pages to facebook, twitter or any of hundreds of places on the web where you might want to share content).
much better security than ie is one attraction of firefox.
other credible choices are safari (the apple browser)  and opera.
rock solid, easy to  use, dependable.
there are a number of fine browsers out there, but the  outstanding choices are firefox and chrome.
tip of the day posted  on october 13, 2010 by daniel better browsing if you’re a windows user and you’re still using internet
try some new  ones and see how they work for you.
beta chrome is a newer browser from google.
for help with browsers or any internet business tools, daniel lieberman  interactive is ready with guidance, advice and training to help your business  use the internet better.
bookmark the permalink.
it is the second most popular browser, with about 30% of the market.
it opens faster than other browsers and will amaze  you if you’re still using internet explorer.
it opens faster than other browsers and will amaze you if you’re still using internet explorer.
internet explorer 9 is out in beta  and getting good reviews.
the big attraction is speed.
it also has a great collection of extensions (like firefox add-ons) to add functionality to the browser.
it’s quick and easy to download and try a new browser.
other credible choices are safari (the apple browser) and opera.
this entry was posted in cloud and social web, tips and tagged browsers, cloud computing, google, internet, tools.
for help with browsers or any internet business tools, daniel lieberman interactive is ready with guidance, advice and training to help your business use the internet better.
explorer (as about 53% of users are), here’s a quick way to improve your  productivity, profit, and pleasure in using the internet.
it also has a great collection of  extensions (like firefox add-ons) to add functionality to the browser.
download firefox from mozilla chrome 7.0.517.41
as more and more of our computer time is spent online and using online  applications, more and more of our time is spent in a browser.
download firefox from mozilla
you can run as many browsers on your pc as you want, and you can uninstall them if you don’t find them suitable for your purposes.
want to find out more?
there are a number of fine browsers out there, but the outstanding choices are firefox and chrome.
internet explorer 9 is out in beta and getting good reviews.
it’s also very secure and it has a pleasant, uncluttered user interface.
it’s quick and easy to  download and try a new browser.
you  can run as many browsers on your pc as you want, and you can uninstall them if  you don’t find them suitable for your purposes.
chrome is a newer browser from google.
as more and more of our computer time is spent online and using online applications, more and more of our time is spent in a browser.
the only downside to firefox is that if you load it up with add-ons (which  you will and should) it tends to get slow.
try some new ones and see how they work for you.
the  other is the tremendous collection of add-ons that firefox users can install  – most for free, which add functionality ranging from blocking ads to  managing bookmarks to great tools like shareaholic (which makes it easy to  share web pages to facebook, twitter or any of hundreds of places on the web  where you might want to share content).
you can easily import your bookmarks, too.
if you’re a windows user and you’re still using internet explorer (as about 53% of users are), here’s a quick way to improve your productivity, profit, and pleasure in using the internet.
change your browser.
rock solid, easy to use, dependable.
the only downside to firefox is that if you load it up with add-ons (which you will and should) it tends to get slow.
download chrome from google don’t count out microsoft, though.
firefox is an open source browser from the mozilla foundation.