for instance, moodle (the platform we use here at time4writing) works better with firefox than internet explorer.
currently, there are several browsers that a student might choose, and as with everything, each has pros and cons.
firefox vs. internet explorer by mrs. gardner taking an online class can be a daunting experience in and of itself, but  if students choose the proper tools, it will save them time and frustration,  and learning online will be viewed as a very rewarding experience.
first, let me say that i used internet explorer as my browser of choice for  the first eight to ten years of being online.
however, being a creature of habit, i could not completely let go of internet explorer, and i found that many sites still worked best with it.
however, i have been using firefox as my primary browser  for over three years now, and have never had such a problem.
one  click fixes the misspelled word, and students can continue on with their typing.
in fact, at that time, many learning platforms (such as blackboard) worked best with internet explorer.
firefox will also allow students to highlight a word or phrase, right-click  it, and then use it to “search google.”
perhaps the  most important tool for a rewarding online education is the correct browser.
first, let me say that i used internet explorer as my browser of choice for the first eight to ten years of being online.
rss feed for comments on this post.
perhaps the most important tool for a rewarding online education is the correct browser.
for instance, when using internet explorer, do you ever receive those pesky  error messages that say internet explorer has had a problem and needs to be  shut down?
finally, if something unexpected does happen, like a power failure and the computer shuts down, firefox saves your settings.
in the last few years, mozilla has perfected firefox to  the point where more and more learning platforms and websites now work better  with firefox.
both mac and pc users have found that firefox is the best browser for achieving great results while working in moodle (time4writing’s learning platform).
if you want to know more about firefox, you can visit and download a free version of the browser at http://www.mozilla.com.
currently, there are several browsers that a student might choose, and as with  everything, each has pros and cons.
finally, if something unexpected does happen, like a power failure and the  computer shuts down, firefox saves your settings.
with internet explorer, nothing is saved.
for instance, moodle (the platform we use here at time4writing)  works better with firefox than internet explorer.
one click fixes the misspelled word, and students can continue on with their typing.
firefox will also help time4writing students in other ways.
this feature alone keeps me using firefox as my preferred browser.
the two most popular browsers are internet  explorer and mozilla firefox.
however, being a creature of habit, i could not completely let go of  internet explorer, and i found that many sites still worked best with it.
of course, there are other browsers and each individual needs to  find the one that works best for their endeavors.
trackback url name (required) mail (will not be published) (required) website * required
with firefox, as soon as the power comes back and  you open your firefox browser, everything is just as it was before the failure.
you would have to go back to each and every page on each  window to continue working.
this is a handy function  for students writing essays, especially when wanting to know more about their  topic.
in the last few years, mozilla has perfected firefox to the point where more and more learning platforms and websites now work better with firefox.
* required by mrs. gardner taking an online class can be a daunting experience in and of itself, but if students choose the proper tools, it will save them time and frustration, and learning online will be viewed as a very rewarding experience.
the two most popular browsers are internet explorer and mozilla firefox.
both mac and pc users have found that firefox is the best browser for  achieving great results while working in moodle (time4writing’s learning  platform).
in  fact, at that time, many learning platforms (such as blackboard) worked best  with internet explorer.
for instance, when using internet explorer, do you ever receive those pesky error messages that say internet explorer has had a problem and needs to be shut down?
then, about five years ago, i  came across some sites that claimed to work better with firefox as a browser.
for example, firefox has a built in spell checker that underlines a misspelled word in red dots as soon as it is typed and has a space or punctuation placed after it.
you know what happens next; you lose all the hard work you’ve just completed.
with firefox, as soon as the power comes back and you open your firefox browser, everything is just as it was before the failure.
however, i have been using firefox as my primary browser for over three years now, and have never had such a problem.
downloading and setting up takes very little time or effort.
with internet explorer,  nothing is saved.
downloading and setting up takes very little time or  effort.
so, wanting the best possible experience, i downloaded and started using  firefox as my preferred browser and found that it really did work better on  many sites.
then, about five years ago, i came across some sites that claimed to work better with firefox as a browser.
you would have to go back to each and every page on each window to continue working.
if you want to know more  about firefox, you can visit and download a free version of the browser at http://www.mozilla.com.
you know what happens next; you lose all the hard work you’ve  just completed.
this is a handy function for students writing essays, especially when wanting to know more about their topic.
firefox will also allow students to highlight a word or phrase, right-click it, and then use it to “search google.”
so, wanting the best possible experience, i downloaded and started using firefox as my preferred browser and found that it really did work better on many sites.
of course, there are other browsers and each individual needs to find the one that works best for their endeavors.
for example,  firefox has a built in spell checker that underlines a misspelled word in red  dots as soon as it is typed and has a space or punctuation placed after it.