reply december 15, 2011 at 1:58 pm thanks, mom!!!!
reply i have to agree, it's nice to read headlines about google fixing a bunch of chrome vulnerabilities and then have the process happen automatically.
tip o the hat to u for bing up opera.
therefore a compromise of the browser  is a potential compromise of the operating system as well.
reply december 13, 2011 at 6:56 pm i use sophos combined with prevx and not a hint of malware since.
confound it to tarnation, they ain't gonna change to some fancy-pants new browser.
but then again, with firefox mostly funded by google, does  it actually deserve that warm fuzz?
if you're new here, you might want to subscribe to our rss feed  for updates.
who would have guessed this would be the result of the data?
reply ismael lensing says: december 14, 2011 at 3:41 pm i never hold much, if any, store by research findings that are sponsored by  a company with a vested interest.
the truth of the  matter is, the browser is so out-dated, a lot of the stuff we browse barely  works on them anymore.
i wouldn't trust such findings any further  than i could throw them.
both google chrome and microsoft internet  explorer implement state-of-the-art antiexploitation technologies, but mozilla  firefox lags behind without jit hardening.
because it takes so long to test when a new browser is updated that basically  an even newer version comes out before they're done.
i find if something happens to their server i have a new one signed up just as  soon as i here about a leak!
reports go off automatically to apple, but the problem  remains.
as carole said in her update your parents' browser day post, people tend to stick like glue to the browsers they know and love.
reply i never hold much, if any, store by research findings that are sponsored by a company with a vested interest.
i have raised these concerns with microsoft in the past and have  never heard back from them.
stick a fork in them: they're done.
the  joy of blogging is being able to pick up on one of the headlines of the day and  throw in a bit of perspective, that's why.
the real issue isn't which browser you use; it's more about whether your  browser is up to date and how you've configured its security options.
no matter how many other browsers i try, i  always come back to opera as the most functional.
follow @lisavaas tags: browsers, chrome, firefox, google chrome, internet explorer, microsoft ie, mozilla firefox, vulnerabilties use no script and there is nothing wrong with firefox.
confound it to tarnation, they ain't gonna change to some fancy-pants new  browser.
personally, i use  chrome.
i'm always leery of any result obtained from "investigations" funded by an interested party but that information is frequently hard to ferret out.
because it takes so long to test when a new browser is updated that basically an even newer version comes out before they're done.
don't show me this again
i am always on the vigilant stance as i don't trust anybody or  anything from the cloud crap at all.
don't show me this again hi fellow twitter user!
i know many people don't do it for a variety of reasons.
what about apple safari?
prejudice toward an outdated version of a given browser, however, is  inexcusable.
reply anon says: december 13, 2011 at 1:49 pm it's shocking how many companies still use ie6.
if you were on the eastern european web, then you would be vulnerable as any other browser or more b/c opera has very respectable market share there.
reply "confound it to tarnation, they ain't gonna change to some fancy-pants new browser.
caveat emptor: accuvant says the study was independently and objectively  assessed, but it was, in fact, funded by google.
they're stuck on ie 7 (our office did have ie 6 until we complained!)
just one of so many joys of the  blogging life: venting!
how does that hold up in the browser lineup?reply i wish my job would see it that way about the old browsers.
chrome gets for all services (except the aforementioned url blacklisting).
sorry, that email doesn't look right to us so we haven't added it to our list.
reply december 13, 2011 at 3:46 pm this is absolutely a correct statement, and one i'm addressing on yahoo  about ie.
i'm now on version 15 and haven't seen any upgrading.
case in point: in microsoft's own estimation, ie 9 has the best protection  against phishing attacks and the most protection against socially engineered  malware of the three most popular browsers.
don't show  me this again hi fellow twitter user!
gee, i wonder which browser would come out on top if apple funded a study that included safari.... hmmm..... !
reply right, for whatever reason, studies of this type tend to stick to the top 3 browsers.
there's probably something they aren't telling us.
the real issue isn't which browser you use; it's more about whether your browser is up to date and how you've configured its security options.
after all, as accuvant puts it, it's hard to know, exactly, how long a  browser hole lets the wind in, given that vendors don't necessarily go around  blabbing about fix timelines: while accuvant labs did not approach microsoft for internal statistics on  privately identified vulnerabilities and vulnerabilities with undisclosed  remediation timelines, it is likely that these statistics exist, and could open  the door for an unambiguous debate about each project’s true response  time.
internet explorer is the least secure browser  for two fundamental reasons.
if you were on the eastern european web, then you would be vulnerable as  any other browser or more b/c opera has very respectable market share there.
reply excellent critique!
he's my future husband!!!!!!!
leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
follow our team of security experts on twitter for  the latest news about internet security threats.
ie 6, for example, held 4.63% of worldwide browser usage as of february 2011.
your stuff is a  hoot...and you're brilliant.
we're adding your address to our list...
reply lisa vaas says: december 14, 2011 at 8:11 pm i have to agree, it's nice to read headlines about google fixing a bunch of  chrome vulnerabilities and then have the process happen automatically.
ie is, of course, the whipping boy in this scenario, but with just cause.
required fields are marked * name * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:                 about the author lisa vaas has written about technology -  specifically, security, databases, technology careers, resume writing and the  applicant tracking systems that eat and/or spit out resumes - since 1995.
reply jason says: december 13, 2011 at 3:39 pm using a nac to survey our users, i recently discovered that we still have a  couple of users with firefox 2 installed.
and thanks for pointing out that google's funding of the "study" is rather like the makers of crest toothpaste stating that their product has been found to be better than those of other makers or that "3-out-of-4 dentists surveyed" recommend it.
it has a larger attack surface especially with activex enabled.
brcause he has put the same stuff on mine.
reply december 13, 2011 at 1:59 pm would have been nice to see opera in the test.
reply nigel says: december 15, 2011 at 2:18 am "confound it to tarnation, they ain't gonna change to some fancy-pants  new browser.
i wouldn't trust such findings any further than i could throw them.
your stuff is a hoot...and you're brilliant.
their old version of fill-in-the-blank works just fine, and they do not like change, nosiree.
a pre-survey is  always useful in dettermining whom to exclude when the "real survey"  is taken.
have for about 6 months and will never go back to that bloated and slow  ie.
follow our team of security experts on twitter for the latest news about internet security threats.
you've got to take these  reports with a grain of salt.
i have raised these concerns with microsoft in the past and have never heard back from them.
therefore, we believe google chrome is the browser that is most secured against  attack.
join the naked security discussion group and connect with your peers in the security industry.
accuvant measured anti-exploitation techniques as opposed to the historical  practice of tabulating vulnerabilities or assessing how speedily they get  patched.
if you're new here, you might want to subscribe to our rss feed for updates.
your email address will not be published.
do they not understand  that the longer we hang out with the old version, the more vulnerable we are??
fake news of hugo chavez's death leads to  malware microsoft offers free windows phones to android malware victims google-funded study finds firefox least secure browser, chrome the best over 100,000 people are part of the sophos community on facebook.
outdated browsers arestill out there, roaming the world at a baffling rate.
reports go off automatically to apple, but the problem remains.
prejudice toward an outdated version of a given browser, however, is inexcusable.
reply december 14, 2011 at 11:47 am tip o the hat to u for bing up opera.
i am writing articles about every security setting in internet explorer, so others can be safer using it.
besides, as sophos's carole theriault points out, the real issue isn't  which browser you use; it's more about whether your browser is up to date and  how you've configured its security options.
i absolutely agree it is very important to keep up with the latest version,  one reason i like chrome is it keeps updating automatically.
reply amy says: december 13, 2011 at 3:24 pm i wish my job would see it that way about the old browsers.
to go back to carole's point, security can be improved vastly simply by  keeping a given browser up to date, without rocking the boat on an individual's  personal preference for browser maker.
last two job interviews i  went to, they were both firm ie6 users...
i am always on the vigilant stance as i don't trust anybody or anything from the cloud crap at all.
this is absolutely a correct statement, and one i'm addressing on yahoo about ie.
i'm always leery of any result obtained from  "investigations" funded by an interested party but that information  is frequently hard to ferret out.
and dagnabit, i can't make fun of them because i am one of them: my ears got hot when i saw the dissing dished out to my beloved firefox.
after all, as accuvant puts it, it's hard to know, exactly, how long a browser hole lets the wind in, given that vendors don't necessarily go around blabbing about fix timelines: while accuvant labs did not approach microsoft for internal statistics on privately identified vulnerabilities and vulnerabilities with undisclosed remediation timelines, it is likely that these statistics exist, and could open the door for an unambiguous debate about each project’s true response time.
i find if something happens to their server i have a new one signed up just as soon as i here about a leak!reply i do the same on mine.
reply levis says: december 13, 2011 at 11:21 pm opera has worst url filtering and has no jit hardening or sandboxing so it  would be tied with firefox.
why not  join us on facebook to find out about the latest security threats.
reply how come no survey was done with safari?
reply @tyw7 says: december 13, 2011 at 1:41 pm i use internet explorer 9 partially due to the familarity and partly due to  compatability with websites.
i know many people don't do it  for a variety of reasons.
you've got to take these reports with a grain of salt.
yes love how the google funded research would come out as chrome being the best.
so i'm using firefox and safari (latest versions) again.
to go back to carole's point, security can be improved vastly simply by keeping a given browser up to date, without rocking the boat on an individual's personal preference for browser maker.
no matter how many other browsers i try, i always come back to opera as the most functional.
who would have guessed this would be the result of the data?reply it's shocking how many companies still use ie6.
reply december 13, 2011 at 1:01 pm opera?
check  your inbox soon, we've sent you an email.
reply accuvant has got it wrong.
caveat emptor: accuvant says the study was independently and objectively assessed, but it was, in fact, funded by google.
if you look at security focus and secunia'scomparison of unpatched  vulnerabilities, ie versions 6 through 8 spread unpatched vulnerabilities  across the table like a nasty rash.
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:               more videos this way more... try out our free trials and demos
the upshot: don't flee from firefox or ie because of a report like this one.
the browser comparison found that ie has, in fact, sandboxing and plug-in security, but it's just plain old "implemented," in accuvant's eyes, as opposed to being an "industry standard," which is the star billing chrome gets for all services (except the aforementioned url blacklisting).
still get contact with people using apple os 9.
personally, i use chrome.
don't show me this again don't forget you can subscribe to the sophoslabs youtube channel to find  all our latest videos.
and stop right there, commenters who will inevitably ask "then why did you bother reporting on the study?"
reply does nobody consider the point that maybe because google gave money to the study group that they will find in google's favor???reply well yea, of course—that's why i pointed to microsoft's own chart showing that ie 9 is the most secure of the bunch.
please come back  later and try again.
sorry, that email doesn't look right to us so we haven't added it to our  list.
please come back later and try again.
the browser comparison found that ie has, in fact, sandboxing and plug-in  security, but it's just plain old "implemented," in accuvant's eyes,  as opposed to being an "industry standard," which is the star billing
this is just the way it is.
the place i work is a huge healthcare organization that, when we switch to a new browser, would probably get implemented across the country, so they do need to be cautious, but not to the point of security vulnerabilities.
reply keeping your software up to date is basic.
have for about 6 months and will never go back to that bloated and slow ie.reply using a nac to survey our users, i recently discovered that we still have a couple of users with firefox 2 installed.
gee, i wonder which browser would come out on top if apple funded a study that  included safari....
this is just  the way it is.
congratulations, you've successfully signed up for our daily news!
join thousands of others, and sign up for naked security's newsletter filed under: featured, malware, privacy, vulnerability a new study has tossed the big browsers into the security mosh pit and decreed that google's chrome comes in first, microsoft's internet explorer pulls in at a close second, and mozilla firefox is bleeding a bit like a stuck pig.
(not to mention i can't even get on google +).
if, in fact, google keeps funding it...
ie 6, for example, held 4.63% of worldwide browser usage as of february  2011.
i just  miss firefox because of familiarity, and also because open-source gives me that  warm populist glow.
here's accuvant's conclusion: the url blacklisting services offered by all three browsers will stop fewer  attacks than will go undetected.
outdated browsers arestill out there, roaming the world at a  baffling rate.
last two job interviews i went to, they were both firm ie6 users...
i haven't had anything come through that one or the other software's haven't caught and stopped it dead in it's tracks.
while both google chrome and microsoft internet explorer implement the same set of anti-exploitation technologies, google chrome’s plug-in security and sandboxing architectures are implemented in a more thorough and comprehensive manner.
however, from a practical standpoint you are the safest b/c no hacker is going to spend his time coding for a 2 percent browser in the english speaking web.
follow naked security's graham cluley for the latest  security news.
accuvant measured anti-exploitation techniques as opposed to the historical practice of tabulating vulnerabilities or assessing how speedily they get patched.
" i didn't see the by-line before i started reading the article, but when i  read the part quoted above, i said, "uh-huh...i'll bet lisa wrote  this..." go ahead and vent all you want, girl.
check your inbox soon, we've sent you an email.
why not join us on facebook to find out about the latest security threats.
or i shouls say my brother does, hes an i.t. guy.
but then again, with firefox mostly funded by google, does it actually deserve that warm fuzz?
brcause he has put the  same stuff on mine.
it would have been helpful to see how it compares..
case in point: in microsoft's own estimation, ie 9 has the best protection against phishing attacks and the most protection against socially engineered malware of the three most popular browsers.
their old version of fill-in-the-blank works just fine, and they  do not like change, nosiree.
i also have paid versions of malwarebytes and avast security.
a pre-survey is always useful in dettermining whom to exclude when the "real survey" is taken.
reply i use sophos combined with prevx and not a hint of malware since.
every browser maker is apt to measure their baby and declare that it's the prettiest thing since shirley temple.
internet explorer is the least secure browser for two fundamental reasons.
don't show me this again sorry, something happened and we couldn't sign you up.
their old version of fill-in-the-blank works just fine, and they do  not like change, nosiree.
it's driving us  nuts.
reply i've given up using google chrome on my imac (running os x lion), because it keeps crashing.
the truth of the matter is, the browser is so out-dated, a lot of the stuff we browse barely works on them anymore.
i switched back to ie 9 with all of the bells and whistles.
i use through-away emails from online too.
and stop right there, commenters who will  inevitably ask "then why did you bother reporting on the study?"
i absolutely agree it is very important to keep up with the latest version, one reason i like chrome is it keeps updating automatically.
i switched to chrome recently not because of security fears but because  mozilla's update servers are getting hung up, its image consistently was  corrupted when i tried to reinstall, and i just didn't have time to  troubleshoot the whole mess.
i just miss firefox because of familiarity, and also because open-source gives me that warm populist glow.
therefore, we believe google chrome is the browser that is most secured against attack.
however, from a practical standpoint you are the  safest b/c no hacker is going to spend his time coding for a 2 percent browser  in the english speaking web.
and they're testing to make sure it's compatible with all the computers?
don't show me this again already using google+?
last thing i heard, it was a subject about which mozilla is being a bit terse... reply mark says: december 13, 2011 at 2:34 pm keeping your software up to date is basic.
i am writing articles about every security setting in internet explorer, so  others can be safer using it.
it sounds like you are.
i'm now on version  15 and haven't seen any upgrading.
read more from lisa on her website atwww.lisavaas.com.
follow naked security's graham cluley for the latest security news.
how does that hold up in the browser lineup?
firefox isn't officially supported  and only technology users are allowed to install it in the first place, but  version 2?
but do flee from old browsers.
her  stories have appeared in venues including the print and/or online versions of  eweek, pc magazine, computerworld, cio, it expert voice, hp's input/output, and  theladders.
i also have  paid versions of malwarebytes and avast security.
the joy of blogging is being able to pick up on one of the headlines of the day and throw in a bit of perspective, that's why.
it is embedded in the operating system.
last thing i heard, it was a subject about which mozilla is being a bit terse...
as carole said in her update your parents' browser day post, people tend  to stick like glue to the browsers they know and love.
it's driving us nuts.
" i didn't see the by-line before i started reading the article, but when i read the part quoted above, i said, "uh-huh...i'll bet lisa wrote this..." go ahead and vent all you want, girl.
and dagnabit, i can't make fun of them because i am one of them: my ears  got hot when i saw the dissing dished out to my beloved firefox.
so  he makes sure im well protected.
do they not understand that the longer we hang out with the old version, the more vulnerable we are??
besides, as sophos's carole theriault points out, the real issue isn't which browser you use; it's more about whether your browser is up to date and how you've configured its security options.
firefox isn't officially supported and only technology users are allowed to install it in the first place, but version 2?
therefore a compromise of the browser is a potential compromise of the operating system as well.
here's accuvant's conclusion: the url blacklisting services offered by all three browsers will stop fewer attacks than will go undetected.
reply opera has worst url filtering and has no jit hardening or sandboxing so it would be tied with firefox.
reply garfey says: december 13, 2011 at 2:12 pm excellent critique!
archive by date | author | category send us a tip | subscribe by rss over 100,000 people are part of the sophos community on facebook.
don't show me this again don't forget you can subscribe to the sophoslabs youtube channel to find all our latest videos.
don't show me this again on linkedin?
it would be interesting to see safari and opera thrown into the mix.
both google chrome and microsoft internet explorer implement state-of-the-art antiexploitation technologies, but mozilla firefox lags behind without jit hardening.
so he makes sure im well protected.
reply michael young says: december 13, 2011 at 1:41 pm i've given up using google chrome on my imac (running os x lion), because  it keeps crashing.
follow @lisavaas tags: browsers, chrome, firefox, google chrome, internet explorer,  microsoft ie, mozilla firefox, vulnerabilties take our poll  fake news  of hugo chavez's death leads to malware microsoft offers free windows  phones to android malware victims 26 responses to google-funded study finds firefox least secure  browser, chrome the best steve says: december 13, 2011 at 12:32 pm use no script and there is nothing wrong with firefox.
showing that ie 9 is the most secure of the bunch.
join thousands of others, and sign up for naked security's newsletter don't show me this again  by lisa vaas on december 13, 2011 | 11109226  comments http%3a%2f%2fnakedsecurity.sophos.com%2f2011%2f12%2f13%2fgoogle-funded-study-finds-firefox-least-secure-browser-chrome-the-best%2f google-funded+study+finds+firefox+least+secure+browser%2c+chrome+the+best 2011-12-13+10%3a58%3a10lisa+vaas http%3a%2f%2fnakedsecurity.sophos.com%2f%3fp%3d111092 filed under: featured, malware, privacy, vulnerability a new study has tossed the big browsers into the security mosh pit and  decreed that google's chrome comes in first, microsoft's internet explorer  pulls in at a close second, and mozilla firefox is bleeding a bit like a stuck  pig.
reply sharp says: december 13, 2011 at 1:42 pm yes love how the google funded research would come out as chrome being the  best.
if you look at security focus and secunia'scomparison of unpatched vulnerabilities, ie versions 6 through 8 spread unpatched vulnerabilities across the table like a nasty rash.
i haven't had anything come  through that one or the other software's haven't caught and stopped it dead in  it's tracks.
and thanks for pointing out that google's funding of  the "study" is rather like the makers of crest toothpaste stating  that their product has been found to be better than those of other makers or  that "3-out-of-4 dentists surveyed" recommend it.
reply thanks, mom!!!!
view all  posts by lisa vaas popular
i switched to chrome recently not because of security fears but because mozilla's update servers are getting hung up, its image consistently was corrupted when i tried to reinstall, and i just didn't have time to troubleshoot the whole mess.
the place  i work is a huge healthcare organization that, when we switch to a new browser,  would probably get implemented across the country, so they do need to be  cautious, but not to the point of security vulnerabilities.
the study, released friday by accuvant labs, found that firefox has four "unimplemented or ineffective" security services: sandboxing, plug-in security, it hardening and url blacklisting (the last of which all three browsers flunked).
reply julie says: december 15, 2011 at 9:58 pm
reply lisa vaas says: december 14, 2011 at 8:03 pm well yea, of course—that's why i pointed to microsoft's own chart
reply would have been nice to see opera in the test.
the study, released friday by accuvant labs, found that firefox has four  "unimplemented or ineffective" security services: sandboxing, plug-in  security, it hardening and url blacklisting (the last of which all three  browsers flunked).
what  about apple safari?
reply andrew rice says: december 13, 2011 at 2:21 pm accuvant has got it wrong.
i do the same on mine.
reply voice of one says: december 13, 2011 at 1:27 pm does nobody consider the point that maybe because google gave money to the  study group that they will find in google's favor???
while both google chrome and  microsoft internet explorer implement the same set of anti-exploitation  technologies, google chrome’s plug-in security and sandboxing  architectures are implemented in a more thorough and comprehensive manner.
every browser maker is apt to measure their baby and declare that it's the  prettiest thing since shirley temple.
and dagnabit, i can't make fun of them because i am one of them: my  ears got hot when i saw the dissing dished out to my beloved firefox.
their old version of fill-in-the-blank works just fine, and they do not like change, nosiree. "and dagnabit, i can't make fun of them because i am one of them: my ears got hot when i saw the dissing dished out to my beloved firefox.
it would have been helpful to see  how it compares.. reply lisa vaas says: december 14, 2011 at 8:05 pm right, for whatever reason, studies of this type tend to stick to the top 3  browsers.
jerry says: december 13, 2011 at 4:25 pm i switched back to ie 9 with all of the bells and whistles.
just one of so many joys of the blogging life: venting!reply i use internet explorer 9 partially due to the familarity and partly due to compatability with websites.
join the naked security discussion group and connect with your  peers in the security industry.
reply conrad says: december 13, 2011 at 1:55 pm how come no survey was done with safari?