these are the latest visitor figures for january 2011 compare that with formoda's first full month back in march 2007 and you can see the real shift away from internet explorer.
oh, and some stuff about what we've been up to... firefox overtakes internet explorer on formoda.co.uk 4th february 2011 @ 1:59pm we always keep an eye on our website statistics and it was interesting to  spot that in 2010 firefox overtook internet explorer as the most popular  browser for visitors to www.formoda.co.uk internet explorer has long been the dominant player in the internet browser  stakes and we are always hearing that "everyone uses ie", well  hopefully this will start to dispel that myth.
receive formoda's latest news as it happens by subscribing to our rss news feed.
now we know these statistics are just for visitors to our website and we know that they/you are a pretty enlightened bunch and therefore more likely to use more improved browsers such as firefox, google chrome and safari and this might not be the same across the whole internet but we can but hope it is a step in the right direction.
company no. 6172469 office address: formoda ltd, the byre, berry pomeroy, devon, tq9 6lh
you can also follow us on twitter and befriend us on facebook, we'd be delighted to see you there.
4th february 2011 @ 1:59pm we always keep an eye on our website statistics and it was interesting to spot that in 2010 firefox overtook internet explorer as the most popular browser for visitors to www.formoda.co.uk internet explorer has long been the dominant player in the internet browser stakes and we are always hearing that "everyone uses ie", well hopefully this will start to dispel that myth.
it is also worth noting that although formoda test and make our websites work in the most widely used versions of internet explorer, it often causes us problems as they just don't work as well as all the other internet browsers.
registered address: the byre, berry pomeroy, totnes, devon, tq9 6lh.
if you are still on internet explorer and would like to explore other options, why not visit the websites offirefox, google chrome or safari browse all of our news & blog articles.
it is also worth noting that although formoda test and make our websites  work in the most widely used versions of internet explorer, it often causes us  problems as they just don't work as well as all the other internet browsers.
firefox 32.6% google chrome 1.8% safari 4.4% now we know these statistics are just for visitors to our website and we  know that they/you are a pretty enlightened bunch and therefore more likely to  use more improved browsers such as firefox, google chrome and safari and this  might not be the same across the whole internet
these are the latest visitor figures for january 2011 firefox 37.5% google chrome 15.9% safari 7.3% compare that with formoda's first full month back in march 2007 and you can  see the real shift away from internet explorer.
formoda news & blog follow all the important news from our industry, be it web technology or  design.
© formoda limited 2012.
but we can but hope it is a  step in the right direction.
if you are still on internet explorer and would like to explore other  options, why not visit the websites offirefox, google  chrome or safari tags