everything from better ways to read  news, quicker way of downloading, to better organized bookmarking can be  adapted to your needs.
the best browser for the web the ability to use tabs for web browsing was one of the key reasons why i switched over from internet explorer 6 to firefox all those years ago.
take a quick look and make sure… continue reading » open up firefox and take a look at the top right search box.
it is also offers up powerful tools for handling images  on the web.
now that ie7 has come along and has incorporated tabs in  their own browser as well, does it make firefox any less appealing?
see how easily you can roll your own firefox search plugin open up firefox and take a look at the top right search box.
link… continue reading »
many of them have spyware or adware installed and are maliciously released to the community.
wherever you are on the web, you can enter a search term in the search bar and receive immediate answers from the search engine you’ve chosen.
take a  quick look and make sure… continue reading »
everything from better ways to read news, quicker way of downloading, to better organized bookmarking can be adapted to your needs.
here are some of the best image… continue reading » i’ve had quite a number of posts on this site which talk about the many ways you can improve firefox with some top notch extensions… this however, is a list of extensions to avoid.
link… continue reading »« older posts
not  with amount of… continue reading » top 5 firefox extensions for images firefox is so flexible that there are currently more than 2000 ways to  customize its features!
it is also offers up powerful tools for handling images on the web.
if you’re one of the 24% still on internet explorer, it’s time to consider a free upgrade :)
the best browser for the web top 10 ways best ways to manage firefox tabs the ability to use tabs for web browsing was one of the key reasons  why i switched over from internet explorer 6 to firefox all those years  ago.
wherever you  are on the web, you can enter a search term in the search bar and receive  immediate answers from the search engine you’ve chosen.
not with amount of… continue reading » firefox is so flexible that there are currently more than 2000 ways to customize its features!
now, since the  very beginning of firefox – mycroft has been the key repository for  firefox… continue reading » 5 firefox extensions that make all the difference in the world based on my web stats, if you’re reading this, there’s a 72%  chance that you’re already on the firefox browser – in which case  you’re in the perfect position enjoy the browser extensions and tweaks  below.
now that ie7 has come along and has incorporated tabs in their own browser as well, does it make firefox any less appealing?
now, since the very beginning of firefox – mycroft has been the key repository for firefox… continue reading » based on my web stats, if you’re reading this, there’s a 72% chance that you’re already on the firefox browser – in which case you’re in the perfect position enjoy the browser extensions and tweaks below.
here are some of the best image… continue reading » massive list of firefox extensions you don’t want to install i’ve had quite a number of posts on this site which talk about the  many ways you can improve firefox with some top notch extensions… this  however, is a list of extensions to avoid.
if you’re one of the 24% still on internet explorer, it’s  time to consider a free upgrade :)
many of them have spyware  or adware installed and are maliciously released to the community.