while firefox continues to grow, the figures reveal that internet explorer  is still by far the dominant browser holding a 66.1% share of the worldwide  market, as opposed to firefox's 28%, which still represents a new high for the  open-source browser.
printed from www.pcpro.co.uk register to receive our regular email newsletter at http://www.pcpro.co.uk/registration.
the figures are backed up by pc pro's own visitor statistics for  2007, which reveal that around 59% of those that visited the site did so using  internet explorer.
by stuart turton posted on 29 jan 2008 at 12:07 firefox continued to make ground on internet explorer in 2007, even threatening to overtake microsoft's dominance in several european countries.
the figure also suggest that while more than 90% of firefox users are running firefox 2, less than half of internet explorer users have made the leap from ie6 to ie7.
speaking to pc pro last september, mozilla europe  president tristan nitot gave his thoughts on why firefox is so popular in  europe.
of the remaining browsers, opera fares best with a 3.3% share, while safari trails with only 2%.
title: (optional) comment: advertisement most commented news stories more from pc pro - lords inquiry to probe uk's broadband strategy latest blog posts latest reviews - has bt given up on rural broadband?
in western europe, germany leads the way with a 34% share.
while firefox continues to grow, the figures reveal that internet explorer is still by far the dominant browser holding a 66.1% share of the worldwide market, as opposed to firefox's 28%, which still represents a new high for the open-source browser.
a tech solution for a fashion problem - chrome's shine getting lost in translation - bytepac: the cardboard hard disk enclosure - how tech loosens our grip on reality - hokum watch: safer internet day -
email to a friend print this article subscribe to pc pro magazine.
we'll give you 3 issues for £1 plus a free gift -click here - email to a friend - print this article from around the web be the first to comment this article you need to login or register to comment.
in western europe, germany leads the way with a 34%  share.
- a fistful of sims - internet explorer 8 - fantasy broadband league - internet on the move - parlez-vous internet?
- internet archivist - losing his cables - you're being adsl advertisement sponsored links search you can search with webid keywords sign up your email: your password: remember me create an account advertisement - sitemap - faq - privacy notice - company website - contact us - media information - broadband - security - classifieds - magazine subscriptions - discount vouchers - rss feeds © copyright dennis publishing limited licensed by felden - our websites: - the week - auto express - custom pc - evo - it pro - it pro india - macuser - men's fitness - micro mart - bit-tech - know your mobile - octane - expert reviews - channel pro - know
the figure also suggest that while more than 90% of firefox users are  running firefox 2, less than half of internet explorer users have made the leap
by stuart turton posted on 29 jan 2008 at 12:07 firefox continued to make ground on internet explorer in 2007, even  threatening to overtake microsoft's dominance in several european countries.
we'll give you  3 issues for £1 plus a free gift -click here from around the web be the first to comment this article you need to login or register to comment.
"in poland, for example, economic development caused the internet to come later to a generation that weren't already dependent on internet explorer and they saw immediately that firefox was a better option."
the figures are backed up by pc pro's own visitor statistics for 2007, which reveal that around 59% of those that visited the site did so using internet explorer.
skip to navigation - home - news - reviews - a-list - features - blogs - forums - enterprise - cloud - education - 3 issues for £1 - secure your pcs - internet explorer 9 // home / news / broadband latest news firefox makes gains on internet explorer gallery
figures released by xiti monitor reveal that firefox is close to toppling  internet explorer in countries such as finland, where it enjoys a 45% market  share, as well as poland, slovenia and hungary where it also enjoys market  share between 40% and 42%.
why i'm deleting adobe from my pc - prepare to be patronised: it's safer internet day - dear sony, samsung and every other tech company in the world: stop trying to be apple latest real world computing - zonealarm internet security suite - webroot internet security essentials - trend micro internet security - pc tools internet security 2009 - panda internet security 2009 - norton internet security 2009 - kaspersky internet security 2009 - f-secure internet security 2009 - avg internet security 8 - bullguard internet security 8.5
figures released by xiti monitor reveal that firefox is close to toppling internet explorer in countries such as finland, where it enjoys a 45% market share, as well as poland, slovenia and hungary where it also enjoys market share between 40% and 42%.
subscribe to pc pro magazine.
speaking to pc pro last september, mozilla europe president tristan nitot gave his thoughts on why firefox is so popular in europe.
- how to ensure your business never loses its net connection - does powerline networking nuke radio hams?
of the remaining browsers, opera fares best with a 3.3% share, while safari  trails with only 2%.
30% used firefox, while the remaining 11% were accounted for by the remaining browsers.
"in poland, for example, economic development caused the internet to  come later to a generation that weren't already dependent on internet explorer  and they saw immediately that firefox was a better option."
the newsletter contains links to our latest pc news, product reviews, features and how-to guides, plus special offers and competitions.
firefox makes gains on internet explorer gallery
- is hotmail's spam filtering really the "best in the business"?
30% used firefox, while the remaining 11% were accounted for  by the remaining browsers.
your cell - know your mobile india - igizmo - digital slr photography - den of geek - computer shopper - dennis communications - magazines - mobile phone deals - competitions - health & fitness - carbuyer - cloud pro - magbooks - mobile test - lits