since both firefox 4 and ie9 use hardware acceleration for more than just future 3d content, they score the maximum 60 fps with 20 fish, but ie still beats firefox with 500 fish.
chrome was, however, better than opera, which only mustered 20fps and 3fps.browser fishie with 20 fish (fps - higher is better) 500 fish another ie9 demo, psychedelic browsing, spins a color wheel and plays spacy sounds, reporting rpm as a result.
score in msbrowser sunspider 0.9.1
in this area, internet explorer and firefox are ahead of google chrome, opera, and safari.
the  company's site for its browser, calledietestdrive.com, sports a slew of  demonstrations that show off hardware acceleration, which you can try running  in any browser.
on these, you can clearly see ie and firefox's lead in hardware acceleration.
on this test, again, the browsers with graphics hardware acceleration trounced those without.
browser fishie  with 20 fish (fps - higher is better) 500 fish internet explorer 9
so much for "standards.
all you have to do is check out each browser's html5 demo site.
1996-2012 ziff davis, inc.
surprisingly, firefox beats microsoft at its  own game here by a tad, though it doesn't play the required sound.
use of this site is governed by our terms of use and privacy policy .copyright
since both firefox 4 and ie9 use hardware acceleration for more  than just future 3d content, they score the maximum 60 fps with 20 fish, but ie  still beats firefox with 500 fish.
you just have to look at the often-cited sunspider javascript benchmarks to see this.
the first two qualities are pretty much universally desirable, but the "standards" support piece, while also desirable, gets sticky:
surprisingly, firefox beats microsoft at its own game here by a tad, though it doesn't play the required sound.
since the arrival of google chrome nearly three years ago, all browsers have come under its influence, and they've all moved in the same three-pronged directions—speedier page loading, cleaner user interfaces, and greater support for new web standards.
on the fishie demo, which uses canvas and javascript to display swimming tropical fish, chrome delivered 40 frames per second with 20 fish and 5 fps with 500 fish.
each browser seems to support a different subset of the many features that fall under the label html5.
chrome,  however, plays the test's required sound, but fares far worse in the  revolutions per minute result: browser psychedelic browsing firefox 4 1885 (no sound) internet explorer 9  1799 (correct sound)
editor's note: a newer version of this story is available at this link: browser wars: chrome vs. ie9 vs. firefox web browsers are converging.
browser google v8 (v.6) scorebrowser google v8 (v.6) score browser mozilla kraken 1.1 score in msbrowser mozilla kraken 1.1 score in ms browser sunspider 0.9.1
the company's site for its browser, calledietestdrive.com, sports a slew of demonstrations that show off hardware acceleration, which you can try running in any browser.
ie8 can't run the test since it lacks the requisite html5 support.
on the fishie demo, which uses canvas and javascript to display swimming  tropical fish, chrome delivered 40 frames per second with 20 fish and 5 fps  with 500 fish.
when these first came out, the maker's own browsers widely outpaced competitors, but results on these tests are also evening out.
60 39 firefox 4 60 35 google chrome 12 40 4 opera 11.50 20 3 safari 5 20 3 another ie9 demo, psychedelic browsing, spins a color wheel and plays spacy  sounds, reporting rpm as a result.
apple's html5 demos, for example, flat out won't function unless you're browsing with safari.
microsoft was the first browser maker to make an  issue of hardware acceleration in the buildup to its releasing ie9.
" the speed of the web along with new standard support, all browsers have posted massive improvements in page-rendering and script execution speed.
in this area, internet explorer and firefox are ahead of google
even chrome, which i already described as "lightning fast" in december of 2008, has sped up on the test from a time of 881ms to 267ms in version 12 on my 2.6ghz dual-core laptop—that's less than a third of the time!
reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of ziff davis, inc. is prohibited.
score in ms the next frontier in browser performance is about graphics hardware acceleration.
the rest of the browsers have followed suit, clustering around the same level of performance.
mozilla and google have built their own javascript speed tests, kraken and v8, respectively.
chrome was, however, better than opera,  which only mustered 20fps and 3fps.
chrome, opera, and safari.
microsoft was the first browser maker to make an issue of hardware acceleration in the buildup to its releasing ie9.
chrome, however, plays the test's required sound, but fares far worse in the revolutions per minute result: browser psychedelic browsingbrowser psychedelic browsing one final test of hardware acceleration comes from mozilla, its hardware acceleration stress test, which spins a spiral of photos in the browser window and reports a score in frames per second (which tops out at the lcd's maximum of 60fps): browser mozilla hardware acceleration stress testbrowser mozilla hardware acceleration stress test
all of the major browsers—chrome, firefox, internet explorer, safari, and opera—have made significant strides in each of these three dimensions.
on these, you can clearly see ie and firefox's lead in hardware  acceleration.
google chrome 12 131 (correct sound) opera 11 82  (no sound) safari 5 83 (no sound) one final test of hardware acceleration comes from mozilla, its hardware  acceleration stress test, which spins a spiral of photos in the browser window  and reports a score in frames per second (which tops out at the lcd's maximum  of 60fps): browser mozilla hardware acceleration stress  test fps (higher is better)
pc magazine is a registered trademark of ziff davis, inc.
opera 11.50 279 safari 5.1 303 the next frontier in browser performance is about graphics hardware  acceleration.