the tree will not perform well in poorly drained soils, nor will it tolerate flooding.
fertilization of avocados is  essentially the same as for other fruit and nut trees in south texas: ammonium  sulfate (21-0-0) at the rate of one half cup per month in the first year, one  cup per month in the second year and two cups per month in the third year.
a burlap-covered cage about a foot higher than the tree is commonly  placed around the tree in the valley for both shading and wind protection.
young trees can be draped (not  wrapped) with a blanket, quilt, tarp or even plastic during the freeze event.
overripe fruit can  be pureed and frozen for later use, particularly for avocado cream soup and  dips.
avoid wasting water to runoff and do not allow water to stand  around the tree for more than a few hours.
any additional practical heat source under the tented tree will probably save even the leaves.
because it can become a large tree, it should be planted no closer than 8 to 10 feet from the house.
avocado fruits do not ripen on the  tree--they must be harvested and held for several days.
consequently, they should not be grown as seedlings for rootstock use.
educational programs conducted by the texas cooperative extension serve people of all ages regardless of socioeconomic level, race, color, sex, religion, handicap or national origin.
it matures in october and stores well on-tree into january  or february.
pruning is unnecessary for growing  trees, but freeze-damaged wood should be cut out in the spring.
for our purposes, west indian avocados are useful primarily as rootstocks because of their high salt tolerance.
the flowering habit of avocados is unique in that the flowers are perfect,  having both male and female organs, but the parts do not function together.
when backfilling is  completed, plus the extra soil above the plant's prior soil line, the outer  root system is in contact with the soil in which it must grow, so the plant is  more likely to survive transplanting and begin to grow.
most are mexican race seedlings, but they have not been described in the horticultural literature, so information about them is lacking.
avocado maturity, if unknown, can be easily determined, as the fruit  is mature when it will soften to good eating quality.
on the other hand, flowers of type b avocados open in the  afternoon as receptive females, close overnight and reopen the following  morning to shed pollen.
thereafter,  apply one to two cups per year per inch of trunk diameter, split into equal  applications in february, may and september.
the elimination of weed and grass competition is critical during the first two or three years after planting.
in important avocado-producing areas, orchards are interplanted with varieties of both types to assure good pollination.
with time, the spots can enlarge to half an inch or more  and are prone to cause the fruit to crack horizontally and vertically across  the spot.
in addition, soil is mounded around the trunk as the tree grows to assure that the graft union is below ground.
most avocado fruit in texas supermarkets are from california, whose varieties are principally mexican race or mexican-guatemalan hybrids.
generally, the south or southeast side of the  house is the warmest location in a residential site.
in  multiple plantings, avocados should be spaced 15 to 25 feet from each other and  from other large trees.
if the tree is killed to the ground, cut it off at ground level--the regenerated tree will be naturally multi- trunked or the excess sprouts can be removed to permit only one to reform the tree.
consequently, they should  not be grown as seedlings for rootstock use.
some types are killed outright by moderate freezes and others have regenerated after sustaining complete death of all aboveground parts in severe freezes.
when fruit softens,  check it for eating quality.
on the other hand, flowers of type b avocados open in the afternoon as receptive females, close overnight and reopen the following morning to shed pollen.
avocado maturity, if unknown, can be easily determined, as the fruit is mature when it will soften to good eating quality.
seeds from 'lula' are the preferred rootstock for all avocados in south texas, as it is fairly tolerant to existing soil salinity.
it matures in october and stores well on-tree into january or february.
the optimum temperature  range for ripening includes the cooler range of most home air conditioning  settings.
new  leaves will develop almost immediately, so there is no cause for concern.
one such variety is holland, a mexican race seedling tree that grew and survived several hard winters in uvalde.
some types are killed outright by  moderate freezes and others have regenerated after sustaining complete death of  all aboveground parts in severe freezes.
if the fruit don't soften, try again every  week or so with new fruit until you achieve softening.
problems, disease and insect pests the most common problem of avocados in texas is tip burn and marginal necrosis caused by water stress and salinity, which is most prevalent during hot, dry weather.
as such, seedlings grown from such seeds will normally exhibit moderate to severe leaf tip burn and marginal necrosis from salt injury.
a burlap-covered cage about a foot higher than the tree is commonly placed around the tree in the valley for both shading and wind protection.
production, maturity and use grafted varieties will produce a few fruit two years after establishment (which is defined as the tree having made significant growth after planting).
other  fungal diseases such as cercospora spot, powdery mildew and scab are rarely  encountered in texas, but are serious problems in the humid tropics.
for the most part, avocados are consumed fresh, alone  or in salads, dips, appetizers, guacamole and pico de gallo.
soil and site selection avocado trees are adapted to most soil types found in south texas, provided the soil has good internal drainage.
the fruit is rarely larger than 8 to 12 ounces, is green to purple or black, and has very thin skin.
flowers of type a varieties open in the morning as receptive females, then close in the afternoon until the following afternoon when they reopen for pollen shed.
some types do not always soften well under texas conditions.
new leaves will develop almost immediately, so there is no cause for concern.
'lula' is the variety of commerce in the lower rio grande valley, with fruits nearing a pound in size and having a green, thick peel which resists disease quite well.
avocado fruits do not ripen on the tree--they must be harvested and held for several days.
summer-maturing avocados will begin to drop  heavily because of disease as they mature.
most avocado fruit in texas supermarkets are from california,  whose varieties are principally mexican race or mexican-guatemalan hybrids.
a mature fruit will soften within three to eight days.
for the most part, avocados are consumed fresh, alone or in salads, dips, appetizers, guacamole and pico de gallo.
storage on-tree is common, and 'lula' will store on-tree  into january because of cooler temperatures.
sadly, they  are not readily available.
avocado is a tropical to subtropical tree that, with some exceptions, is best  adapted to relatively frost-free areas.
the  most serious disease of avocados is anthracnose, which is primarily a disease  of fruit nearing maturity.
reference to commercial products or trade names is made with the understanding that no discrimination is intended and that no endorsement by the cooperative extension service is implied.
because the skin is so thin, the fruit are very susceptible to  disease.
the popularity of its  fruit, particularly in mexican food dishes, and its tropical appearance have  spurred considerable interest in growing avocados at home.
zerle l. carpenter, director, texas cooperative extension, the texas a&m  university system.
it is common practice to plant the tree deeper than normal so that the graft is at or below ground level.
zerle l. carpenter, director, texas cooperative extension, the texas a&m university system.
examples include incandescent lights, decorative lights, electric  heaters and camp lanterns or stoves.
anthracnose is particularly severe on thin-skinned types, but rarely  causes significant losses on 'lula' and other thick-skinned fruits.
mature trees can produce two to three or more bushels of avocados with good management, depending upon variety.
'lula' sustains severe freeze damage below 27 degrees, although it commonly regrows from below ground.
there are three distinct horticultural races of avocado -- west indian, guatemalan and mexican -- plus hybrids between them.
avocado irrigation is no different from citrus or other fruit and nut trees--water slowly, deeply and thoroughly.
examples include incandescent lights, decorative lights, electric heaters and camp lanterns or stoves.
once competition is eliminated, organic  mulches can effectively prevent further problems.
'lula' sustains severe freeze damage below 27 degrees, although it  commonly regrows from below ground.
cold protection deep planting and subsequent soil mounding around the trunk are the best assurances that the avocado will survive a severe freeze, even if the top is completely killed.
in multiple plantings, avocados should be spaced 15 to 25 feet from each other and from other large trees.
its fruit ripens in the summer and is usually of good flavor.
cold protection deep planting and subsequent soil mounding around the trunk are the best  assurances that the avocado will survive a severe freeze, even if the top is  completely killed.
it has limited commercial value in the lower rio grande valley  and is often found in landscapes across south texas.
as  such, seedlings grown from such seeds will normally exhibit moderate to severe  leaf tip burn and marginal necrosis from salt injury.
if only limb  damage occurs, wait until regrowth commences and cut back to live tissue.
the guatemalan race of avocados is essentially intermediate between the  other two, and its hybrids with the other two races include many of the more  important varieties in commerce.
few  insects have been documented on texas avocados, although mites sometimes occur  on the foliage.
avocado grafts are commonly inserted quite close to the soil line of the rootstock.
with time, the spots can enlarge to half an inch or more and are prone to cause the fruit to crack horizontally and vertically across the spot.
gainesville, winter mexican and others -- but they are not of notable fruit quality.
propagation and planting avocados do not come true from seed, and seedlings may take up to 10 to 15 years to fruit.
the planting site should  be chosen with cold protection in mind, especially in areas where annual winter  frosts or freezes are common.
the most serious disease of avocados is anthracnose, which is primarily a disease of fruit nearing maturity.
production, maturity and use grafted varieties will produce a few fruit two years after establishment  (which is defined as the tree having made significant growth after planting).
one such  variety is holland, a mexican race seedling tree that grew and survived several  hard winters in uvalde.
the corners of the covering should be pulled outward and anchored to the ground--it is not necessary that the covering reach to the ground.
in addition, soil is mounded around the trunk as the tree grows to  assure that the graft union is below ground.
r-1, pancho, capri and numerous others have appeared and apparently been lost.
propagation in texas is mostly by cleft (tip) grafting, but other types of graftage work.
however,  under south texas conditions, there is sufficient overlap between the phases of  a flower type that pollination and fruit set are rarely a problem.
'lula' is the variety of commerce in the lower rio grande valley, with  fruits nearing a pound in size and having a green, thick peel which resists  disease quite well.
because it can become a  large tree, it should be planted no closer than 8 to 10 feet from the house.
the popularity of its fruit, particularly in mexican food dishes, and its tropical appearance have spurred considerable interest in growing avocados at home.
this problem is most acute on mexican-race seedlings and rootstocks; it can be tempered somewhat by more uniform and regular watering.
some mexican-race avocados can be rooted or air- layered, although the lack of salinity tolerance remains a problem for such own-rooted plants.
the mexican race is the most cold tolerant but the least salt tolerant.
when a severe freeze is being forecast, mound additional soil around the trunk for extra protection, then water thoroughly two or three days before the cold weather is expected.
there are  varieties having higher than usual cold tolerance --
some avocados are prone to complete defoliation at the time of flowering.
pick a couple of fruit  and set them on the kitchen counter (out of direct sun).
pick a couple of fruit and set them on the kitchen counter (out of direct sun).
possums apparently thrive on mature avocado fruit and will climb the tree to feed in the absence of fruit on the ground.
this problem is most acute on mexican-race seedlings and  rootstocks; it can be tempered somewhat by more uniform and regular watering.
home fruit production - avocado julian w. sauls extension horticulturist introduction avocado is a medium to large evergreen tree with large, leathery, deep green leaves.
it starts as circular, sunken brown to black spots that are quite small.
issued in furtherance of cooperative extension work in agriculture and home economics acts of congress of may 8, 1914, as amended, and june 30, 1914, in cooperation with the united states department of agriculture.
the crushed leaves of the mexican race of avocados have a distinct odor of anise (licorice), which is lacking in the other races.
some types do not always soften well  under texas conditions.
avocado grafts are commonly  inserted quite close to the soil line of the rootstock.
a mature fruit will  soften within three to eight days.
newly-planted trees  should be staked for support and most require shading during the first several  months.
gainesville, winter  mexican and others -- but they are not of notable fruit quality.
none has been severe enough to warrant control measures.
storage on-tree is common, and 'lula' will store on-tree into january because of cooler temperatures.
sadly, they are not readily available.
avocado irrigation is no  different from citrus or other fruit and nut trees--water slowly, deeply and  thoroughly.
if only limb damage occurs, wait until regrowth commences and cut back to live tissue.
when a severe freeze is being forecast, mound additional  soil around the trunk for extra protection, then water thoroughly two or three  days before the cold weather is expected.
the crushed leaves of the mexican race of avocados have a distinct  odor of anise (licorice), which is lacking in the other races.
if the fruit don't soften, try again every week or so with new fruit until you achieve softening.
because most avocado trees are produced in containers of soilless media, much of the outer layer of media should be washed off the sides and top of the root ball just before placing the tree in the planting hole.
it starts as circular, sunken brown to black spots  that are quite small.
propagation in texas is mostly by  cleft (tip) grafting, but other types of graftage work.
other fungal diseases such as cercospora spot, powdery mildew and scab are rarely encountered in texas, but are serious problems in the humid tropics.
if  the tree is killed to the ground, cut it off at ground level--the regenerated  tree will be naturally multi- trunked or the excess sprouts can be removed to  permit only one to reform the tree.
there are varieties having higher than usual cold tolerance --
seeds from 'lula' are the preferred  rootstock for all avocados in south texas, as it is fairly tolerant to existing  soil salinity.
generally, the south or southeast side of the house is the warmest location in a residential site.
any  additional practical heat source under the tented tree will probably save even  the leaves.
soil and site selection avocado trees are adapted to most soil types found in south texas,  provided the soil has good internal drainage.
it has limited commercial value in the lower rio grande valley and is often found in landscapes across south texas.
most are lacking in truly good quality.
west indian types are the least cold tolerant and somewhat watery in flavor, but they have the greatest tolerance to salinity and some diseases.
the guatemalan race of avocados is essentially intermediate between the other two, and its hybrids with the other two races include many of the more important varieties in commerce.
the flowering habit of avocados is unique in that the flowers are perfect, having both male and female organs, but the parts do not function together.
when backfilling is completed, plus the extra soil above the plant's prior soil line, the outer root system is in contact with the soil in which it must grow, so the plant is more likely to survive transplanting and begin to grow.
thereafter, apply one to two cups per year per inch of trunk diameter, split into equal applications in february, may and september.
fertilization of avocados is essentially the same as for other fruit and nut trees in south texas: ammonium sulfate (21-0-0) at the rate of one half cup per month in the first year, one cup per month in the second year and two cups per month in the third year.
problems, disease and insect pests the most common problem of avocados in texas is tip burn and marginal  necrosis caused by water stress and salinity, which is most prevalent during  hot, dry weather.
educational information disclaimer the information given herein is for educational purposes only.
extension horticulturist introduction avocado is a medium to large evergreen tree with large, leathery, deep  green leaves.
describing varieties is difficult, inasmuch as there exist several so-called varieties that originated as seedling trees in home plantings across south texas.
the fruit is  rarely larger than 8 to 12 ounces, is green to purple or black, and has very  thin skin.
anthracnose is particularly severe on thin-skinned types, but rarely causes significant losses on 'lula' and other thick-skinned fruits.
reference  to commercial products or trade names is made with the understanding that no  discrimination is intended and that no endorsement by the cooperative extension  service is implied.
avocado is a tropical to subtropical tree that, with some exceptions, is best adapted to relatively frost-free areas.
pruning is unnecessary for growing trees, but freeze-damaged wood should be cut out in the spring.
the tree will not perform well in  poorly drained soils, nor will it tolerate flooding.
because the skin is so thin, the fruit are very susceptible to disease.
because most avocado trees are produced in containers of soilless media, much  of the outer layer of media should be washed off the sides and top of the root  ball just before placing the tree in the planting hole.
mature trees can produce two to three or more bushels of avocados with good  management, depending upon variety.
r-1, pancho, capri and numerous others have appeared  and apparently been lost.
newly-planted trees should be staked for support and most require shading during the first several months.
when fruit softens, check it for eating quality.
the elimination of weed and grass competition is critical during the first  two or three years after planting.
young trees can be draped (not wrapped) with a blanket, quilt, tarp or even plastic during the freeze event.
the optimum temperature range for ripening includes the cooler range of most home air conditioning settings.
educational programs conducted by the texas cooperative extension serve  people of all ages regardless of socioeconomic level, race, color, sex,  religion, handicap or national origin.
it is common practice  to plant the tree deeper than normal so that the graft is at or below ground  level.
west indian types are the  least cold tolerant and somewhat watery in flavor, but they have the greatest  tolerance to salinity and some diseases.
few insects have been documented on texas avocados, although mites sometimes occur on the foliage.
in important avocado-producing areas, orchards are  interplanted with varieties of both types to assure good pollination.
the corners of the covering should be pulled outward and anchored to the  ground--it is not necessary that the covering reach to the ground.
for our purposes, west indian avocados  are useful primarily as rootstocks because of their high salt tolerance.
thus, trees killed to the ground  by severe cold will regenerate from varietal wood rather than from rootstock.
summer-maturing avocados will begin to drop heavily because of disease as they mature.
flowers of type a varieties open in the morning as receptive females, then  close in the afternoon until the following afternoon when they reopen for  pollen shed.
issued in furtherance of cooperative extension work in  agriculture and home economics acts of congress of may 8, 1914, as amended, and  june 30, 1914, in cooperation with the united states department of agriculture.
possums apparently thrive on mature avocado fruit and will climb the tree to  feed in the absence of fruit on the ground.
describing varieties is difficult, inasmuch as there exist several  so-called varieties that originated as seedling trees in home plantings across  south texas.
mexican-race seedlings and varieties typically mature during the summer; 'lula' and most other hybrids mature in september or october.
the most limiting factor to success with avocado trees is severe cold.
however, under south texas conditions, there is sufficient overlap between the phases of a flower type that pollination and fruit set are rarely a problem.
fertilization should be applied monthly from february to september.
some mexican-race  avocados can be rooted or air- layered, although the lack of salinity tolerance  remains a problem for such own-rooted plants.
overripe fruit can be pureed and frozen for later use, particularly for avocado cream soup and dips.
once competition is eliminated, organic mulches can effectively prevent further problems.
avoid wasting water to runoff and do not allow water to stand around the tree for more than a few hours.
mexican-race seedlings and varieties  typically mature during the summer; 'lula' and most other hybrids mature in  september or october.
thus, trees killed to the ground by severe cold will regenerate from varietal wood rather than from rootstock.
the planting site should be chosen with cold protection in mind, especially in areas where annual winter frosts or freezes are common.
there are three distinct horticultural races of avocado -- west indian,  guatemalan and mexican -- plus hybrids between them.
most are mexican race seedlings, but they have not been described  in the horticultural literature, so information about them is lacking.
propagation and planting avocados do not come true from seed, and seedlings may take up to 10 to 15  years to fruit.