walking, hiking  (approximately 3 to 5 hours), kayaking, or other activities on most days.
a few of our trips have had a “+” added to the number, indicating something that falls in between.
if you choose the premier camp option, night drives are possible as well.
also cooler and drier).
examples: tuscany & umbria, sicily, morocco, palau, iceland, turkey, festivals of bhutan, costa rica.
the below overview is only one possible suggestion based on our experience.
if you are traveling alone and wish to share accommodations, we will try to match you with a roommate of the same gender.
if you reserve at least 90 days ahead and a roommate is not  available, you will only be charged a “forced” single supplement in  the amount of 50% of the standard single supplement (unless otherwise noted in  the detailed itinerary).
some days this will be another  game drive, while other times we may board mokoros for a quiet exploration of  the waterways near camp or explore the area on foot in the company of our guide  and a ranger.
lush gardens spread out beneath the trees and a croquet court is an  ideal venue for a pimm's-soaked croquet game.
this is an excellent time of year to  consider extending your safari with a trip into the kalahari desert, which is  at its best during the rainier summer months (ask about our botswana: the  kalahari desert trip extension).
please note that the following is a typical safari itinerary, and actual activities may be customized to suit your interests, to take advantage of weather conditions, local events, and to allow serendipity to play a hand in your experience.
a  variety of activities are included on our ultimate custom safari, but the  primary activity is game driving.
as we approach livingstone, it is often possible to see  the spray of legendary victoria falls from miles away.
exploring the zambezi various activities  available.
single supplement view single supplement policy single supplements: accommodations (hotels, tents, cruise cabins) are based on double  occupancy.
while here, you’ll  explore this new landscape on day and night game drives in open 4 x 4 vehicles,  as well as on bush walks.
your guide will discuss the options with you upon arrival so that you can choose what interests you most.
description of trip ratings adventure travel may involve exotic destinations, unusual levels of physical exertion, and activities that may be new to you.
reserve a trip total people in party: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11+ *required.
this initial flight provides a remarkable and beautifully scenic introduction to one of the world’s most unusual ecosystems.
boundless journeys' staff has traveled extensively through the prime game regions of africa, visiting camps and meeting guides, all to insure that your customized safari is easy to plan, and flawless and unforgettable once you are there.
there is rich birdlife in this area, including several sought-after species such as african finfoot, half-collared kingfisher, african skimmer (seasonal), schalow’s turaco, and rock pratincole (seasonal).
no matter when you choose to go, you will see more elephants,  giraffes, zebras, gazelles, buffalos, hippos, and lions than you can keep track  of.
all the okavango big game can be found here – including excellent chances of spotting predators.
there are several varieties of bream (tilapia) which are  also a good catch.
the zambezi river offers some fishing opportunities and tiger fishing is an unforgettable challenge for keen anglers, with the best months being october through december.
this region is one of the most remote in the entire okavango delta and offers  an unparalleled sense of wilderness.
excellent birding can be enjoyed within the  camp itself, on boat cruises, and out on game drives.
by early afternoon, we arrive at our home for the next two nights: a deluxe  tented camp located on the western edge of the renowned moremi game reserve.
suggested trip length 10 days will allow you to fully explore  botswana's okavango delta and zambia's victoria falls when to go upcoming trips: southern africa: december to april (summer; best for  birding, baby animals, and lush landscapes); may to october (winter; best for  big game viewing.
the average altitude is generally no more than 12,000 feet.
activities over the next two days will include mokoroing (think africa’s version of the venice gondola), guided walks, and game drives.
altitude is typically not a factor on these tours.
in addition to all of the big game,  migratory birds are present in abundance.
once we receive your request we will contact you  within one business day to confirm availability and answer any questions you  may have.
the lounge, dining room and pub areas are on expansive raised decks and there  is a pool and an open-airkgotla for dining under the stars.
please see these trip pages for more details.
days 1 & 2 into the okavango delta game drives, guided walks, and mokoro canoe excursions – easy, approximate total of 5-6 hours of activities per day.
a few of our trips have had a “+” added  to the number, indicating something that falls in between.
this high concentration of wildlife combined with wilderness safaris' camps on private concessions ensure that game viewing is spectacular all year long.
since the announcement, plaudits have been rolling in for what is most likely botswana's largest solar array and the news has sped excitedly around the wilderness staff family both in botswana as well as other parts of africa.
the  in-between periods - april/early may and september/october - still tend to be  dry, but  in april/early may the days are cooler than in summer, whereas  september/october is the hottest time of year.
later on, we gather for hors d’ouvres and drinks before heading out for the afternoon activity.
activity details safari game drives over varied terrain, river boat  cruises, optional mokoro canoe excursions, and optional easy safari game walks.
terrain may be rugged with uneven footpaths.
after brunch, we  enjoy a few hours of down time, enjoying the amenities of camp, resting,  birdwatching, taking photos, or perhaps reading about the region you are  visiting.
the okavango delta is justifiably considered one of the most incredible  wilderness sanctuaries in africa.
all of these camps offer superb facilities and  accommodation, the bedrooms being slightly smaller than those of our premier  camps, but still quite spacious.
these camps combine luxury, superb design and many comforts of home.
wilderness safaris classic accommodation overview (scroll down for wilderness safaris premier accommodations suggestions): classic camps are generally tented camps, although a few are lodges built from permanent structures.
raised walkways allow animals to wander freely through the camp to and from the water.
other activities, such as snorkeling  or sea kayaking, are optional.
departure walking tour of victoria falls – easy, about one hour.
this is an excellent time of year to consider extending your safari with a trip into the kalahari desert, which is at its best during the rainier summer months (ask about our botswana: the kalahari desert trip extension).
each tent or bedroom has an en-suite  bathroom, often with an additional outdoor shower under the stars.
in addition to the lounge and dining area, there are two plunge pools and an outdoorboma for dining under the stars, complemented by wines from an excellent wine cellar.
activities over the next two days will include mokoroing (think africa’s
at nearly 6,000 square miles, the world's largest inland delta is a wonderland of water channels, lagoons, and islands in the midst of the arid kalahari desert.
there are several varieties of bream (tilapia) which are also a good catch.
if you choose  the premier camp option, night drives are possible as well.
each large,  luxurious room is raised off the ground on wooden decks and each comprises a  bedroom, lounge, shower and bathroom - with indoor and outdoor shower.
raised on wooden  platforms and walkways, each tent offers superb views of the seasonal  floodplain and lagoon and a feel of living in the midst of a riverine forest.
weather summer is from november to the end of march and usually brings very high temperatures.
some days this will be another game drive, while other times we may board mokoros for a quiet exploration of the waterways near camp or explore the area on foot in the company of our guide and a ranger.
each year, floodwaters flow from the  central african highlands hundreds of miles away to create a water-world  bursting at the seams with herds of gazelle, zebra, giraffe and elephant,  followed by prides of lions, packs of african wild dog, and high concentrations  of cheetah and leopard.
kenya zanzibar bhutan bhutan & nepal cambodia china india laos mongolia nepal tibet vietnam france, italy, switzerland iceland ireland italy scotland spain turkey chile costa rica ecuador peru antarctica palau exclusive, low-impact, and epic all describe our custom safaris in africa.
other activities available in the area at an additional charge include helicopter flights, micro-lighting, canoeing, jet boating, elephant-back safaris, and white-water rafting.
animals tend to be in good condition at this time of year, as the food supplies remain plentiful.
typically, one of the camp staff will knock at your tent door early in the  morning, and the group will gather for a quick, light breakfast and coffee or  tea before departing camp as the sun rises.
savuti camp linyanti concession botswana this intimate camp's en-suite accommodation is in seven large walk-in tents that are raised off the ground and face onto the savute channel's grasslands.
as we approach livingstone, it is often possible to see the spray of legendary victoria falls from miles away.
tours of livingstone town and museum and  visits to mkuni market and simonga village are all outstanding ways of learning  about the people and culture of this part of zambia.
as we come upon groups of animals, we  allow plenty of time to simply observe and also take photographs.
easy to moderate 2 hotel nights and/or deluxe, safari-style camping.
each departure is a little different in terms of order of areas visited, but offers the same quality of experience.
jao camp also has a salon where a wide range of massage therapies are offered.
the safari experience
when to go there are excellent reasons to visit the regions on this trip at  any time of year, each offering slightly different experiences: december-march: many ungulates have their babies at this  time of year, when the lush landscape provides both ample nutrition for  mothers, and protection from predators.
experienced naturalist guides will introduce you to the wildlife.
by mid-late morning, we return to camp where a delicious brunch awaits.
animals tend to be in good condition at this time of year, as the food supplies  remain plentiful.
each premier camp has its own individual style, as well as additional  features such assalas (an outdoor private porch with comfortable  furnishings) for a soothing midday siesta.
winter days are invariably sunny and cool to warm; however, evening and night temperatures can drop below freezing point in some areas.
if you are traveling alone and  wish to share accommodations, we will try to match you with a roommate of the  same gender.
customize your journey to indulge your  most amazing travel fantasies.
it is also the rainy season and cloud coverage and rain can cool things down, although usually for only a short period of time.
jao camp also has a  salon where a wide range of massage therapies are offered.
the below overview is only one  possible suggestion in botswana based on our experience.
accommodations include six roomy tents with an en-suite bathroom, an outside shower, and a veranda overlooking the floodplain.
these are joyful performances where it is often difficult to tell who is having more fun – the staff or the camp guests!
one side is completely open to the river, so that there is an uninterrupted vista of the zambezi and its far bank from both bed and bathtub.
many of our hotel-based walking trips  are in this category.
preparing for this trip
our detailed itineraries  provide additional information on what to expect on the trip you are  considering (detailed itineraries are available by mail, fax, or e-mail; or you  can find them on our website, www.boundlessjourneys.com).we encourage you to  call one of our travel experts with any questions or concerns that you may  have.
as this is a private safari for you and your family or friends, it can be tailored to your preferences.
"this trip was the perfect blend of fascinating history, stunning scenery, exhilarating hiking, contemporary spanish and basque culture, and delicious meals with excellent rioja wines.
we then make our way back to camp, sometimes driving with a spotlight to look for nocturnal animals.
on 7 march 2012, following an investment of bwp6 million (us$ 860 000), mombo camp officially switched over from diesel-powered generators to renewable solar energy.
that said, we are happy to design a trip that fits your budget and provides and unforgettable experience!
these camps combine luxury, superb design and many comforts of  home.
the zambezi  river offers some fishing opportunities and tiger fishing is an unforgettable  challenge for keen anglers, with the best months being october through  december.
the private collection advantage independent travel at its best.
savuti camp or  kings pool camp, linyanti, botswana day 8 into zambia after a short morning drive and breakfast,  we depart by light aircraft to zambia.
in addition to the elephants, seldom-seen sitatunga can often be spotted in the waterways, as well as rare plains game, such as roan and sable antelope and their predators, the lion and leopard, with the endangered wild dog as an incredible bonus.
group size trip rating (1 easiest - 5 most strenuous) description of trip ratings adventure travel may involve exotic destinations, unusual levels of  physical exertion, and activities that may be new to you.
the winter season begins  in may and ends in august.
the camp’s  dining, lounge and bar areas offer ample space for relaxation and are  complemented by an infinity pool, with meals served on the sundeck, the pool  deck or dining room; all overlooking the zambezi.
xigera camp or jao camp, okavango delta, botswana days 3 & 4 okavango delta game driving and nature walks – easy, approximate total of 5-6 hours of activities per day.
our grand finale is a  guided tour of the victoria falls, one of the seven natural wonders of the  world.
what better way to  celebrate important milestones than with family and friends in amazing places,  with all of the details handled for you so you can simply relax and enjoy each  other’s company?
optional private guide supplement; subject to availability $500 per  day, plus lodging and travel expenses what's included expert naturalist guides at each camp services of safari camp staff accommodations in deluxe, exclusive safari camps (we work exclusively with  wilderness safaris to support our ground operations; however, we can book camps  outside of the wilderness safaris collection on request) all meals and select alcoholic beverages included all activities noted in the itinerary, such as daily game drives, night  drives, mokoro excursions, tracking walks, and river cruises (please note all  activities will be shared with other camp guests unless you reserve a private  guide and vehicle)
savuti camp or kings pool camp, linyanti, botswana day 8 into zambia after a short morning drive and breakfast, we depart by light aircraft to zambia.
predator and prey are often in close proximity in their intense need for water, leading to some memorable encounters.
once we receive your request we will contact you within one business day to confirm availability and answer any questions you may have.
title: dr. mr. mrs. ms. first  name:*
africa custom safari overview exclusive, low-impact, and epic all describe our custom safaris in africa.
by  mid-morning we transfer to livingstone's harry mwaanga nkumbula international  airport and bid farewell to our adventure in time for early afternoon flights  homeward.
it is an area of great scenic beauty: from the falls  themelves to the broad upstream waters of the mighty zambezi river.
the pool seems part of the river itself, while a secluded deck with hammocks and loungers provides respite.
nights 3 & 4: vumbura plains camp kwedi concession,  okavango delta botswana vumbura plains consists of two  separate seven-roomed camps, each with its own raised dining, lounge and bar  area tucked beneath a canopy of shady trees and with a magnificent vista across  the floodplains.
customized safari sample itinerary please note that the following is a typical safari itinerary, and  actual activities may be customized to suit your interests, to take advantage  of weather conditions, local events, and to allow serendipity to play a hand in  your experience.
a single supplement is paid by participants who specifically request  single accommodations, subject to availability.
moderate 3 full day hikes (approximately 4 to 6 hours) most days on unpaved trails and paths through hilly terrain with typical elevation gains and losses of 1,000 to 2,000 feet.
these twin-bedded canvas and thatched rooms are situated beneath a canopy of shady trees and have en-suite facilities, as well as an outdoor shower for the more adventurous.
nights 8 & 9: toka leya camp mosi-oa-tunya national park zambia recipient of condé nast's hotel "hot list" award.
examples: chile, scotland, spain, bhutan & nepal.
the following are average temperatures and rainfall amounts in the regions you’ll be visiting: high low rainfall january: 89°f 66°f 4.33” march: 88°f 64°f 2.76” may: 82°f 48°f 0.2” july: 77°f 42°f 0” september: 91°f 55°f 0” december: 89°f 66°f 3.74” you may obtain other regional weather information atwww.weatherbase.com.
when the okavango’s annual flood is at its highest (normally may to late september), boating, fishing, and mokoro trips are also a possibility if you’ve opted for premier camps.
we will walk where  possible but this is often determined by the local area and country  regulations.
no matter when you choose to go, you will see more elephants, giraffes, zebras, gazelles, buffalos, hippos, and lions than you can keep track of.
duba plains or vumbura plains, northern okavango delta, botswana days 5-7 linyanti wildlife reserve game drives and nature walks – easy, approximate total of 5-6 hours of activities per day.
we want to make sure  that you choose the adventure that's right for you from our many one-of-a-kind  trips.
each departure is a little different in terms of order of areas visited,  but offers the same quality of experience.
nights 1 & 2: jao camp jao concession, okavango delta botswana jao camp has nine spacious, beautiful tents, each individually handcrafted.
our trip ratings may  be found on the trip schedule and on our website.
predator and prey are often in close  proximity in their intense need for water, leading to some memorable encounters.
each room looks west into glorious african sunsets best viewed from the privacy of a ball and claw bath, brim-full with bubbles.
the delta represents life at its most fertile: abundant water, sunlight, and rich soil combine to form a paradise bursting with life and a landscape of indescribable beauty.
* single accommodations are limited so you are encouraged to reserve early!
lion, leopard, cheetah, wild dog, buffalo and elephant are all found in this area, as well as excellent concentrations of zebra, wildebeest, giraffe, and all the plains animals.
upon arrival in  maun, you will be met by a boundless journeys/wilderness safaris representative  and fly by light aircraft over the shimmering waters of the okavango delta.
that said, we are happy to design  a trip that fits your budget and provides and unforgettable experience!
moderate 3 full day hikes (approximately 4 to 6 hours) most days on unpaved trails and  paths through hilly terrain with typical elevation gains and losses of 1,000 to  2,000 feet.
the spacious en-suite bathrooms are tiled with double showers and hand-basins as well as an outdoor shower for those who wish to shower close to nature!
toka leya camp or the river club, livingstone, zambia day 9
terrain may  be rugged with uneven footpaths.
this high concentration of wildlife combined with  wilderness safaris' camps on private concessions ensure that game viewing is  spectacular all year long.
ultimate private safari is  rated 1, easy, on a scale of 1-5 (with 5 being the most strenuous).
the  walls are simply screened on on three sides, and the billowing curtains between  the various areas create the sense of being aboard a yacht floating through the  floodplains.
we reach our  camp on the banks of the zambezi in the late afternoon, in time to enjoy a  sunset cruise on the river before dinner.
experienced naturalist  guides will introduce you to the wildlife.
from the camp's thatched dining area and pub, a plunge pool and large viewing area with fire pit extend outwards on raised wooden decks towards the channel, providing a wonderful view of the waterhole where zebra and elephant regularly come to be refreshed.
at the same time, the annual flooding of the okavango  delta is on its way in from the mountains of angola, creating abundant  waterways of incredible beauty, and attracting a wide diversity of wildlife.
by mid-morning we transfer to livingstone's harry mwaanga nkumbula international airport and bid farewell to our adventure in time for early afternoon flights homeward.
after breakfast, we fly  north-eastwards, departing the okavango, to the private linyanti concession;  after a short game drive we arrive at our camp for the next three nights.
after a final morning game drive and brunch at our camp, a late morning bush  flight brings us to the extreme northern okavango delta, an area of mixed open  plains and vibrant wetlands that comprise a private concession managed in  partnership with neighboring communities.
while here, you’ll explore this new landscape on day and night game drives in open 4 x 4 vehicles, as well as on bush walks.
nights 1 & 2: xigera camp xigera concession in the okavango delta botswana xigera camp (pronounced keejera) dwells on an island in the heart of the delta in moremi game reserve, set in a wetland paradise, surrounded by deep channels and lush riverine vegetation.
excellent birding can be enjoyed within the camp itself, on boat cruises, and out on game drives.
each large, luxurious room is raised off the ground on wooden decks and each comprises a bedroom, lounge, shower and bathroom - with indoor and outdoor shower.
optional walks and hikes (approximately 2 to 4 hours) through gentle terrain with little elevation gain or loss.
“sundowners” – a light snack and cocktails  served in the bush, are an african safari tradition, and a great way to enjoy  unforgettable sunsets.
each room also has a private plunge pool andsala – a comfortable area to relax, watching the waving grasses of the floodplain.
the camp consists of ten luxuriously furnished tented  rooms with en-suite facilities as well as an outdoor shower.
these trips typically involve some camping or simple accommodations.
if you would like to take advantage of the optional nature walks, you may wish to engage in easy aerobic activities for 30-45 minutes a few times a week for several weeks before the trip.
built on raised decks, each has  a privatesala for afternoon siestas and offers wonderful views of the  spectacular surrounding floodplains.
it  is also the rainy season and cloud coverage and rain can cool things down,  although usually for only a short period of time.
toka leya camp or the river club,  livingstone, zambia day 10 victoria falls  and departure walking tour of victoria falls  – easy, about one hour.
this initial flight provides a remarkable and beautifully scenic introduction  to one of the world’s most unusual ecosystems.
in particular, large  herds of elephants can be found in this region during the dry season  (may-october).
our trip ratings may be found on the trip schedule and on our website.
when the okavango’s annual flood is at its  highest (normally may to late september), boating, fishing, and mokoro trips  are also a possibility if you’ve opted for premier camps.
optional activities include an elephant back safari, helicopter flights over victoria falls, and rafting on the lower zambezi river.
the pool seems part of the river  itself, while a secluded deck with hammocks and loungers provides respite.
many of our hotel-based walking trips are in this category.
ultimate private safari is rated 1, easy, on a scale of 1-5 (with 5 being the most strenuous).
nights 8 & 9: the river club livingstone zambia the river club, with its edwardian-style house and manicured  lawns on the banks of the swift-flowing zambezi river where hippo and crocodile  float, seems to straddle the continents of africa and europe.
july-october: the dry winter season has begun to have an impact on both the landscape and the wildlife.
days 1-7: safari in the okavango delta and linyanti concession, botswana; activities include game drives, nature walks, and mokorocanoeing, all based from some of the most luxurious permanent safari camps in botswana.
birding here is particularly good, and most safari-goers – even those who don't consider themselves birders – find themselves captivated by the wide variety of entertaining birdlife in this region, in addition, of course, to the resident african buffalo, zebra, wildebeest, impala, and even white rhino.
kings pool linyanti concession botswana nine well-appointed tents of canvas and thatch each have a large bedroom area, lounge, private plunge pool andsala.
baby ungulates born in the summer are now adolescent, and can  be observed testing the skills they’ll need as adults.
we also offer custom safaris to namibia, south africa, zambia, zimbabwe, tanzania, kenya, and beginning in 2012, the republic of the congo.
each tent or bedroom has an en-suite bathroom, often with an additional outdoor shower under the stars.
we move slowly, and even when animals are not present, the landscape and sounds of the bush are entrancing.
upon leaving botswana, we fly over the  kazangula border, a point where the four countries of botswana, zambia,  zimbabwe and namibia.
this is also the dry season when virtually no rainfall occurs.
these trips typically involve some camping or  simple accommodations.
view single supplement policy single supplements: accommodations (hotels, tents, cruise cabins) are based on double occupancy.
built from permanent structures.
in particular, large herds of elephants can be found in this region during the dry season (may-october).
our guides  are experienced naturalists and will add greatly to your understanding of the  animals.
later on, we gather for hors d’ouvres and drinks  before heading out for the afternoon activity.
consult your doctor before undertaking any new fitness program.
the delta represents life  at its most fertile: abundant water, sunlight, and rich soil combine to form a  paradise bursting with life and a landscape of indescribable beauty.
birding  here is particularly good, and most safari-goers – even those who don't  consider themselves birders – find themselves captivated by the wide  variety of entertaining birdlife in this region, in addition, of course, to the  resident african buffalo, zebra, wildebeest, impala, and even white rhino.
tonight you’ll enjoy a final dinner in  celebration of an unforgettable safari in one of africa’s greatest  wilderness areas.
however, a budget of about $1,300 per person, per night is generally realistic for comfortable, permanent camps in good wildlife locations during peak periods.
examples: indochina, vietnam, egypt, galapagos  islands, botswana, tanzania.
the variety of surrounding habitats ensures diverse and interesting wildlife viewing, including elephant, lion, zebra, red lechwe, giraffe, tsessebe, wildebeest, kudu, impala, leopard and bushbuck.
meals and evening drinks are enjoyed in the lounge and dining area overlooking a permanently flowing channel or under the stars in a traditional african boma.
tours of livingstone town and museum and visits to mkuni market and simonga village are all outstanding ways of learning about the people and culture of this part of zambia.
duba plains camp kwedi concession in the okavango delta botswana one of the okavango delta's most remote camps, duba plains is a small, intimate camp on a tree-filled island in a private 30,000-hectare concession known as the kwedi reserve.
each premier camp has its own individual style, as well as additional features such assalas (an outdoor private porch with comfortable furnishings) for a soothing midday siesta.
boundless journeys has partnered with wilderness safaris, widely recognized as the best safari outfitter in southern africa, to develop a collection of truly unique safaris.
one of the seven natural wonders  of the world, victoria falls is known locally as mosi-oa-tunya, "the smoke  that thunders".
at 1,708 meters wide, it is the largest curtain of water in the world and drops more than 100 meters into the sheer zambezi gorge.
ponchos are available for use in the safari vehicles.
tonight you’ll enjoy a final dinner in celebration of an unforgettable safari in one of africa’s greatest wilderness areas.
boundless journeys has been recognized by readers oftravel + leisure magazine as a top 10 "world's best tour operator and safari  outfitter".
at the same time, the annual flooding of the okavango delta is on its way in from the mountains of angola, creating abundant waterways of incredible beauty, and attracting a wide diversity of wildlife.
typically, one of the camp staff will knock at your tent door early in the morning, and the group will gather for a quick, light breakfast and coffee or tea before departing camp as the sun rises.
the lounge, dining room and pub areas are on expansive raised decks and there is a pool and an open-airkgotla for dining under the stars.
our primary  activities require little aerobic fitness, but some agility for getting in and  out of vehicles, mokoro canoes, and walking through uneven terrain.
the safari experience a variety of activities are included on our ultimate custom safari, but the primary activity is game driving.
toka leya camp or the  river club, livingstone, zambia day 9
may:               82°f     48°f    0.2” july:                 77°f     42°f    0” september:      91°f    55°f    0” december:      89°f     66°f    3.74” you may obtain other  regional weather information atwww.weatherbase.com.
by early afternoon, we arrive at our home for the next two nights: a deluxe tented camp located on the western edge of the renowned moremi game reserve.
boundless journeys call us toll free: 800.941.8010 or request a call enter your e-mail to receive our free newsletter botswana namibia republic of the congo seychelles tanzania tanzania &
overlooking the mighty zambezi  river and some of its islands, toka leya camp consists of 12 spacious en-suite  safari-style tents.
reconnect in remarkable places.
moderate to strenuous 4 full day hikes (approximately 5 to 7 hours) through mountainous terrain with significant elevation gains and losses (2,000 to 3,000 feet).
our primary activities require little aerobic fitness, but some agility for getting in and out of vehicles, mokoro canoes, and walking through uneven terrain.
after brunch, we enjoy a few hours of down time, enjoying the amenities of camp, resting, birdwatching, taking photos, or perhaps reading about the region you are visiting.
altitude  is typically not a factor on these tours.
the in-between periods - april/early may and september/october - still tend to be dry, but in april/early may the days are cooler than in summer, whereas september/october is the hottest time of year.
ten luxury chalets  are spread out on the property, all with en-suite bathrooms.
in addition to experienced guides, first-class vehicles,  and a diverse selection of camp and lodge options, wilderness safaris’  conservation efforts and community-mindedness are great matches for boundless  journeys’ core philosophy.
the wildlife is typically most active early  in the morning and late in the afternoon (these times also provide the best  light for photography), and therefore we plan our activities accordingly.
wooden walkways snake between the units and main area,  limiting our footprint on this pristine area.
this trip can be enjoyed by anyone who is in reasonably good health.
this region is one of the most remote in the entire okavango delta and offers an unparalleled sense of wilderness.
we keep a respectful distance – although the same cannot always be said about the animals and it is not unusual to come nose-to-car with baboons, zebras, wildebeest, gazelles, and elephants.
meals and evening drinks are enjoyed in the lounge and dining area overlooking  a permanently flowing channel or under the stars in a traditional african boma.
a star-gazing deck with comfortable cushions protrudes into the floodplain, surrounding a convivial camp fire setting.
the wildlife is typically most active early in the morning and late in the afternoon (these times also provide the best light for photography), and therefore we plan our activities accordingly.
raised  walkways allow animals to wander freely through the camp to and from the water.
our grand finale is a guided tour of the victoria falls, one of the seven natural wonders of the world.
if you would like to take advantage of the optional nature walks, you may wish  to engage in easy aerobic activities for 30-45 minutes a few times a week for  several weeks before the trip.
reserve tell a friend how to enjoy a once-in-a-lifetime safari in africa: witness the  incredible, often touching interactions of inspiring wildlife; relax with  congenial fellow travelers in exceptional camps; swap stories with guides over  the campfire; dine on memorable cuisine; sleep under canvas snuggled in fine  linens; repeat.
wooden walkways snake between the units and main area, limiting our footprint on this pristine area.
all of these camps offer superb facilities and accommodation, the bedrooms being slightly smaller than those of our premier camps, but still quite spacious.
there may be occasional short steep sections of trail.
this trip  can be enjoyed by anyone who is in reasonably good health.
these trips typically offer  few options and include camping.
savuti camp linyanti concession botswana this  intimate camp's en-suite accommodation is in seven large walk-in tents that are  raised off the ground and face onto the savute channel's grasslands.
we will walk where possible but this is often determined by the local area and country regulations.
these trips typically offer few options and include camping.
vumbura plains breaks the expectations of a classic safari-style camp.
the below overview is only one possible suggestion based on our  experience.
the  summer rainy season has drawn to a close.
xigera camp or jao camp, okavango delta, botswana days 3 & 4 okavango delta game driving and nature walks – easy,  approximate total of 5-6 hours of activities per day.
some activites are also seasonal.
reserve a trip total people in party: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11+ trip name:*
moderate to strenuous 4 full day hikes (approximately 5 to 7 hours) through mountainous terrain  with significant elevation gains and losses (2,000 to 3,000 feet).
exploring the zambezi various activities available.
july-october: the dry winter season has begun to have an impact on  both the landscape and the wildlife.
examples: tour du mont blanc, peru trek, bhutan  chomolhari trek.. most strenuous 5 full-day trekking (approximately 6 to 8 hours) through rugged mountainous  terrain with steep climbs and descents and one or more of the following  present: elevation gains and losses of as much as 4,000 feet, altitude that  exceeds 12,000 feet, and rugged uneven footpaths.
the winter season begins in may and ends in august.
*please click general information for further information about our single supplement policy.
days 8-10: victoria falls and livingstone, zambia; cruise  the zambezi river at sunset, go on wildlife and birding drives in mosi-oa-tunya  national park, and visit the incredible victoria falls.
these are joyful  performances where it is often difficult to tell who is having more fun –  the staff or the camp guests!
all the okavango big game can be found  here –  including excellent chances of spotting predators.
many of the classic camps' tents are raised  off the ground with interconnecting walkways.
the variety of  surrounding habitats ensures diverse and interesting wildlife viewing,  including elephant, lion, zebra, red lechwe, giraffe, tsessebe, wildebeest,  kudu, impala, leopard and bushbuck.
a trip deposit of $500 per person is required to confirm your reservation (payable by check or major credit card).
“sundowners” – a light snack and cocktails served in the bush, are an african safari tradition, and a great way to enjoy unforgettable sunsets.
(night drives also available with classic camp option).
we reach our camp on the banks of the zambezi in the late afternoon, in time to enjoy a sunset cruise on the river before dinner.
tent interiors boast cool wooden flooring, tasteful, uncluttered african decor in earthy hues, climate-control for a cool summer sanctuary, and expansive wooden decks.
please be prepared for cold weather in the evening/night/morning and bring  plenty of warm clothing, including a hat, gloves, long pants, a fleece/wool  top, and a windbreaker jacket.
we are always happy to assist you in any way that we can.
wilderness safaris premier accommodation o verview: premier camps are the highest level of camps in the wilderness safaris portfolio and comprise their most elegant and stylish accommodation.
nights 3 & 4: vumbura plains camp kwedi concession, okavango delta botswana vumbura plains consists of two separate seven-roomed camps, each with its own raised dining, lounge and bar area tucked beneath a canopy of shady trees and with a magnificent vista across the floodplains.
the tall grasses are starting to  “lay down”, and some trees begin to lose their foliage, allowing  for easier game viewing.
your e-mail address will not be distributed to other organizations, and you may opt-out at any time.
we then make our way back to camp, sometimes driving  with a spotlight to look for nocturnal animals.
nights 8 & 9: toka leya camp mosi-oa-tunya national park zambia recipient of condé nast's hotel "hot  list" award.
its main area is a well-appointed residence, with a comfortable lounge, large dining room, impressive library and wide veranda on which breakfasts and teas are taken.
one of the seven natural wonders of the world, victoria falls is known locally as mosi-oa-tunya, "the smoke that thunders".
that the price for this level of accommodation is from approximately $1250 per  person, per night.
impressive even in small family groups, when these animals  gather together in large numbers, it becomes an awe-inspiring sight you  won’t soon forget.
the landscape is more arid in appearance although the floodwaters remain high, and the animals congregate in large numbers near the remaining watering holes.
easiest 1 our easiest trips are generally hotel-based cultural and nature journeys  that typically offer light activity.
note that the price for this level of accommodation is from approximately $1250 per person, per night.
upon leaving botswana, we fly over the kazangula border, a point where the four countries of botswana, zambia, zimbabwe and namibia.
the thatch-roofed lounge, dining room and bar areas are raised on platforms along with a swimming pool, all providing beautiful views.
(night drives also  available with classic camp option).
venturing on wildlife tracking walks, mokoro canoe safaris, and night game drives—all advantages of staying in private concessions (some activities are seasonal)
visas and passport fees pre-travel inoculations pre- and post-safari hotels in johannesburg, cape town, windhoek, etc.
bush flights while on safari what's not included international/inter-africa commercial airfare to and from your safari  meeting and departure points compulsory trip insurance (medical, evacuation, and repatriation insurance  is required; full trip cancellation/interruption insurance is highly  recommended)
kenya zanzibar mongolia nepal iceland costa rica ecuador peru palau egypt turkey ecuador antarctica jordan morocco zanzibar bhutan bhutan & nepal cambodia china india laos mongolia tibet vietnam france, italy, switzerland ireland italy spain turkey chile ecuador peru bhutan bhutan & nepal nepal peru morocco bhutan bhutan & nepal china tibet france, italy, switzerland iceland ireland italy scotland spain turkey chile costa rica ecuador peru botswana tanzania tanzania & kenya costa rica ecuador peru botswana egypt jordan morocco namibia republic of the congo seychelles tanzania tanzania &
consult your doctor before undertaking any new  fitness program.
the average altitude is generally no more than  12,000 feet.
raised on wooden platforms and walkways, each tent offers superb views of the seasonal floodplain and lagoon and a feel of living in the midst of a riverine forest.
a star-gazing deck with comfortable cushions protrudes into  the floodplain, surrounding a convivial camp fire setting.
at 1,708 meters wide, it is the largest curtain of water in the world  and drops more than 100 meters into the sheer zambezi gorge.
please complete the following information to request a reservation.
the okavango delta is justifiably considered one of the most incredible wilderness sanctuaries in africa.
upon arrival in maun, you will be met by a boundless journeys/wilderness safaris representative and fly by light aircraft over the shimmering waters of the okavango delta.
all have a concertina screen door or window across the  front of the bedroom and/or bathroom.
each year, floodwaters flow from the central african highlands hundreds of miles away to create a water-world bursting at the seams with herds of gazelle, zebra, giraffe and elephant, followed by prides of lions, packs of african wild dog, and high concentrations of cheetah and leopard.
duba plains or vumbura  plains, northern okavango delta, botswana days  5-7 linyanti wildlife reserve game  drives and nature walks – easy, approximate total of 5-6 hours of  activities per day.
optional activities  include an elephant back safari, helicopter flights over victoria falls, and  rafting on the lower zambezi river.
in the evenings,  dinner is enjoyed as a group, and will vary from seated meals ordered from the  daily menu, to dining in the camp “boma” with a feast of  traditional african foods and entertainment by the camp staff.
please be prepared for cold weather in the evening/night/morning and bring plenty of warm clothing, including a hat, gloves, long pants, a fleece/wool top, and a windbreaker jacket.
likewise, our east africa partners are  experienced leaders.
we want to make sure that you choose the adventure that's right for you from our many one-of-a-kind trips.
i give permission to boundless journeys to give my name and phone number to a potential roommate.
optional walks and hikes (approximately 2  to 4 hours) through gentle terrain with little elevation gain or loss.
on game drives with experienced local guides, and by motorboat on the zambezi river experiencing epic and diverse african landscapes and victoria falls, one of the seven wonders of the natural world relaxing at classic or premier permanent camps, offering an exceptional safari experience in prime locations tanzania: beyond the serengeti private safari botswana & zambia: wilderness safari botswana: the kalahari desert namibia: the skeleton coast march 2012 -
in addition to the elephants, seldom-seen sitatunga  can often be spotted in the waterways, as well as rare plains game, such as  roan and sable antelope and their predators, the lion and leopard, with the  endangered wild dog as an incredible bonus.
other activities available in the area at an additional charge include  helicopter flights, micro-lighting, canoeing, jet boating, elephant-back  safaris, and white-water rafting.
we keep a respectful distance – although the same cannot always  be said about the animals and it is not unusual to come nose-to-car with  baboons, zebras, wildebeest, gazelles, and elephants.
lion, leopard,  cheetah, wild dog, buffalo and elephant are all found in this area, as well as  excellent concentrations of zebra, wildebeest, giraffe, and all the plains  animals.
all have a concertina screen door or window across the front of the bedroom and/or bathroom.
the game in some parts of africa is so intense, it is not unusual to encounter elephants, lions, buffalo, zebras, and many species of antelope on your drive from airstrip to camp.
wilderness safaris premier accommodation o verview: premier camps are the highest level of camps in the  wilderness safaris portfolio and comprise their most elegant and stylish  accommodation.
deluxe (or, if you choose, downright luxurious) camps await you at day's end, in scenic locations, featuring inventive cuisine, congenial staff, and a relaxing atmosphere – perfect for reconnecting with friends and family.
in addition to the lounge and dining area,  there are two plunge pools and an outdoorboma for dining under the  stars, complemented by wines from an excellent wine cellar.
tents and public areas are not heated, though  the public areas do have fire pits, and beds are warmed with hot water bottles  on cold nights.
one side is  completely open to the river, so that there is an uninterrupted vista of the  zambezi and its far bank from both bed and bathtub.
our detailed itineraries provide additional information on what to expect on the trip you are considering (detailed itineraries are available by mail, fax, or e-mail; or you can find them on our website, www.boundlessjourneys.com).we encourage you to call one of our travel experts with any questions or concerns that you may have.
walking is at your own risk, and can take you close to dangerous wild animals.
the game in some parts of africa is  so intense, it is not unusual to encounter elephants, lions, buffalo, zebras,  and many species of antelope on your drive from airstrip to camp.
baby ungulates born in the summer are now adolescent, and can be observed testing the skills they’ll need as adults.
by mid-late morning, we  return to camp where a delicious brunch awaits.
private safari suggested itinerary please note that as this is a private safari for you and your family or  friends, it can be tailored to your preferences.
easiest 1 our easiest trips are generally hotel-based cultural and nature journeys that typically offer light activity.
kings pool linyanti concession botswana nine well-appointed tents of canvas and thatch each  have a large bedroom area, lounge, private plunge pool andsala.
its  main area is a well-appointed residence, with a comfortable lounge, large  dining room, impressive library and wide veranda on which breakfasts and teas  are taken.
built on raised decks, each has a privatesala for afternoon siestas and offers wonderful views of the spectacular surrounding floodplains.
travel with trusted leaders in adventure travel.
reserve, set in a wetland paradise, surrounded by deep channels and lush  riverine vegetation.
after a final morning game drive and brunch at our camp, a late morning bush flight brings us to the extreme northern okavango delta, an area of mixed open plains and vibrant wetlands that comprise a private concession managed in partnership with neighboring communities.
version of the venice gondola), guided walks, and game drives.
there is rich birdlife in this  area, including several sought-after species such as african finfoot,  half-collared kingfisher, african skimmer (seasonal), schalow’s turaco,  and rock pratincole (seasonal).
walking is at your own risk, and can take you close to  dangerous wild animals.
nights 1 & 2: jao camp jao concession, okavango delta botswana jao camp has nine spacious, beautiful tents, each  individually handcrafted.
the camp consists of ten luxuriously furnished tented rooms with en-suite facilities as well as an outdoor shower.
after breakfast, we fly north-eastwards, departing the okavango, to the private linyanti concession; after a short game drive we arrive at our camp for the next three nights.
all tents have en-suite bathrooms.
days 8-10: victoria falls and livingstone, zambia; cruise the zambezi river at sunset, go on wildlife and birding drives in mosi-oa-tunya national park, and visit the incredible victoria falls.
the walls are simply screened on on three sides, and the billowing curtains between the various areas create the sense of being aboard a yacht floating through the floodplains.
* single accommodations are limited so you are  encouraged to reserve early!
at nearly 6,000 square miles, the world's  largest inland delta is a wonderland of water channels, lagoons, and islands in  the midst of the arid kalahari desert.
impressive even in small family groups, when these animals gather together in large numbers, it becomes an awe-inspiring sight you won’t soon forget.
please note that as this is a private safari for you and your family or friends, it can be tailored to your preferences.
this does not apply to cruises in the galapagos islands or antarctica.
read more from the boundless journeys blog »
the camp’s dining, lounge and bar areas offer ample space for relaxation and are complemented by an infinity pool, with meals served on the sundeck, the pool deck or dining room; all overlooking the zambezi.
examples: tour du mont blanc, peru trek, bhutan chomolhari trek.. most strenuous 5 full-day trekking (approximately 6 to 8 hours) through rugged mountainous terrain with steep climbs and descents and one or more of the following present: elevation gains and losses of as much as 4,000 feet, altitude that exceeds 12,000 feet, and rugged uneven footpaths.
deluxe (or,  if you choose, downright luxurious) camps await you at day's end, in scenic  locations, featuring inventive cuisine, congenial staff, and a relaxing  atmosphere – perfect for reconnecting with friends and family.
examples:  chile, scotland, spain, bhutan & nepal.
activities available from our camps include  game drives within mosi-oa-tunya national park, river cruises, fishing  excursions, and guided nature walks.
trails and paths are through rolling countryside, with occasional steep trails with up to 1,000 feet of elevation gain.
a trip  deposit of $500 per person is required to confirm your reservation (payable by  check or major credit card).
we spend a few hours exploring and observing animals at watering holes or on the move from one region to another.
days 1-7: safari in the okavango delta and linyanti  concession, botswana; activities include game drives, nature walks, and mokorocanoeing, all based from some of the most luxurious permanent safari  camps in botswana.
many of the classic camps' tents are raised off the ground with interconnecting walkways.
ten luxury chalets are spread out on the property, all with en-suite bathrooms.
in addition to experienced guides, first-class vehicles, and a diverse selection of camp and lodge options, wilderness safaris’ conservation efforts and community-mindedness are great matches for boundless journeys’ core philosophy.
when to go there are excellent reasons to visit the regions on this trip at any time of year, each offering slightly different experiences: december-march: many ungulates have their babies at this time of year, when the lush landscape provides both ample nutrition for mothers, and protection from predators.
the  spacious en-suite bathrooms are tiled with double showers and hand-basins as  well as an outdoor shower for those who wish to shower close to nature!
typically 5 hours of activity per day.
the landscape is more arid in appearance  although the floodwaters remain high, and the animals congregate in large  numbers near the remaining watering holes.
why trust your safari to boundless journeys? boundless journeys has partnered with wilderness safaris, widely recognized  as the best safari outfitter in southern africa, to develop a collection of  truly unique safaris.
optional private activity supplement varies from $350-$700 per day,  depending on the camp
however, we are happy to book these for you at additional expense to provide  you with a seamless travel experience.
each trip is rated on a scale of 1 to 5, with 1 being the easiest, and 5  being the most strenuous.
a wellness center houses a treatment room for manicures, pedicures, facials and massages as well as a sauna, jacuzzi and mini gym.
it is an area of great scenic beauty: from the falls themelves to the broad upstream waters of the mighty zambezi river.
these twin-bedded canvas and thatched rooms are  situated beneath a canopy of shady trees and have en-suite facilities, as well  as an outdoor shower for the more adventurous.
from the  camp's thatched dining area and pub, a plunge pool and large viewing area with  fire pit extend outwards on raised wooden decks towards the channel, providing  a wonderful view of the waterhole where zebra and elephant regularly come to be  refreshed.
other activities, such as snorkeling or sea kayaking, are optional.
we also offer custom  safaris to namibia, south africa, zambia, zimbabwe, tanzania, kenya, and  beginning in 2012, the republic of the congo.
lush gardens spread out beneath the trees and a croquet court is an ideal venue for a pimm's-soaked croquet game.
your guide will discuss  the options with you upon arrival so that you can choose what interests you  most.
likewise, our east africa partners are experienced leaders.
examples: tuscany & umbria, sicily, morocco, palau,  iceland, turkey, festivals of bhutan, costa rica.
nights 1 & 2: xigera camp xigera concession in  the okavango delta botswana xigera camp (pronounced keejera) dwells on an island in the heart of the delta in moremi game
walking, hiking (approximately 3 to 5 hours), kayaking, or other activities on most days.
as this is a private  safari for you and your family or friends, it can be tailored to your  preferences.
a  wellness center houses a treatment room for manicures, pedicures, facials and  massages as well as a sauna, jacuzzi and mini gym.
traveling to and from what to expect typical trip rating boundless journeys’ trips  are designed for energetic and flexible individuals who like to be active and  have a spirit of adventure and a positive attitude.
vumbura  plains breaks the expectations of a classic safari-style camp.
typical trip rating boundless journeys’ trips are designed for energetic and flexible individuals who like to be active and have a spirit of adventure and a positive attitude.
the tall grasses are starting to “lay down”, and some trees begin to lose their foliage, allowing for easier game viewing.
during our three days here, our activities will include game drives and nature walks exploring a range of habitats, from riverbanks to scrub and forest, which reveal a myriad of wildlife en route to slake their thirst at the river.
each trip is rated on a scale of 1 to 5, with 1 being the easiest, and 5 being the most strenuous.
a single supplement is paid by participants who specifically request single accommodations, subject to availability.
in addition to all of the big game, migratory birds are present in abundance.
trails and paths are through rolling countryside, with occasional steep trails  with up to 1,000 feet of elevation gain.
we move slowly, and even when  animals are not present, the landscape and sounds of the bush are entrancing.
nights 8 & 9: the river club livingstone zambia the river club, with its edwardian-style house and manicured lawns on the banks of the swift-flowing zambezi river where hippo and crocodile float, seems to straddle the continents of africa and europe.
during our three days here, our  activities will include game drives and nature walks exploring a range of  habitats, from riverbanks to scrub and forest, which reveal a myriad of  wildlife en route to slake their thirst at the river.
this is also the dry season when virtually no  rainfall occurs.
the below overview is only one possible suggestion in botswana based on our experience.
the landscape of the linyanti wildlife reserve varies from floodplains to  open, dry savannah and forest with sweeping views, creating a paradise for a  high diversity of wildlife and bird species.
the thatch-roofed  lounge, dining room and bar areas are raised on platforms along with a swimming  pool, all providing beautiful views.
the summer rainy season has drawn to a close.
tents and public areas are not heated, though the public areas do have fire pits, and beds are warmed with hot water bottles on cold nights.
accommodations include six roomy tents with an en-suite bathroom, an  outside shower, and a veranda overlooking the floodplain.
for those hot days there is a small plunge pool in which to cool off.
suggested custom safari accommodations wilderness safaris classic accommodation overview  (scroll down for wilderness safaris premier accommodations suggestions): classic camps are generally tented camps, although a few are lodges
weather summer is  from november to the end of march and usually brings very high temperatures.
days 1 & 2 into the okavango delta game drives, guided walks, and mokoro canoe excursions – easy,  approximate total of 5-6 hours of activities per day.
east africa: december-march;  june-october 2012 land cost from $830 per person, per day 2012 custom safari land cost details from $830 per person, per night.
each room looks west into  glorious african sunsets best viewed from the privacy of a ball and claw bath,  brim-full with bubbles.
bush flights deliver you to remote wilderness camps.
winter days are invariably sunny and cool to warm; however,  evening and night temperatures can drop below freezing point in some areas.
activities available from our camps include game drives within mosi-oa-tunya national park, river cruises, fishing excursions, and guided nature walks.
from $830 per person, per day from $830 per person, per night.
if you reserve at least 90 days ahead and a roommate is not available, you will only be charged a “forced” single supplement in the amount of 50% of the standard single supplement (unless otherwise noted in the detailed itinerary).
overlooking the mighty zambezi river and some of its islands, toka leya camp consists of 12 spacious en-suite safari-style tents.
the landscape of the linyanti wildlife reserve varies from floodplains to open, dry savannah and forest with sweeping views, creating a paradise for a high diversity of wildlife and bird species.
duba plains camp kwedi  concession in the okavango delta botswana one of the  okavango delta's most remote camps, duba plains is a small, intimate camp on a  tree-filled island in a private 30,000-hectare concession known as the kwedi  reserve.
tent interiors boast cool wooden  flooring, tasteful, uncluttered african decor in earthy hues, climate-control  for a cool summer sanctuary, and expansive wooden decks.
however, a budget of about $1,300 per  person, per night is generally realistic for comfortable, permanent camps in  good wildlife locations during peak periods.
with your own exclusive  party of family or friends, you'll enjoy itineraries developed from our years  of experience.
toka leya camp or the river club, livingstone, zambia day 10 victoria falls and
as we come upon groups of animals, we allow plenty of time to simply observe and also take photographs.
examples: indochina, vietnam, egypt, galapagos islands, botswana, tanzania.
the following are  average temperatures and rainfall amounts in the regions you’ll be  visiting: high     low    rainfall january:          89°f    66°f     4.33” march:             88°f    64°f    2.76”
we spend a few hours exploring and observing animals at watering holes or on  the move from one region to another.
boundless journeys' staff has traveled extensively through the prime game  regions of africa, visiting camps and meeting guides, all to insure that your  customized safari is easy to plan, and flawless and unforgettable once you are  there.
in the evenings, dinner is enjoyed as a group, and will vary from seated meals ordered from the daily menu, to dining in the camp “boma” with a feast of traditional african foods and entertainment by the camp staff.
you chose your dates and  traveling companions, and let us do the rest!
your dates, your friends.
our guides are experienced naturalists and will add greatly to your understanding of the animals.
" - katharine svenson, spain: vintage rioja nature & safariscultural encounterstrekkinghiking & walking expedition cruisingfamily friendly palauchinaindiamongoliabhutanbhutan & nepalbotswanatanzaniamorocco icelanditalyirelandfrance, italy, switzerlandturkeyspainperuecuadorchilecosta ricaegyptnepalzanzibarnamibiaseychellesscotlandvietnamantarcticacambodiajordan tanzania & kenyatibetlaosrepublic of the congo oceania odysseythe silk road from yunnan to tibetroyal rajasthanland of the nomadsa journey into the peaceful kingdomthe chomolhari trekwilderness safarimigration safarithe land of fire and iceancient sicilya taste of tuscany & umbriagems of the emerald isletour du mont blancistanbul to the turquoise coastvintage riojathe sacred valley & machu picchutrekking the hidden inca trailthe galapagos islandslake district & patagonianature's richness revealedhighlands to the coast family adventuredesert flying safarithe skeleton coastthe highland waybeyond the serengeticultural explorerantarctic explorer cultural explorer private adventurecoast to coast multisportthe amalfi coast & caprithe best of east africathe roof of the worldprivate migration safari antarctic express copyright © 2012 boundless journeys all rights reserved slideshow photography © blaine harrington vt business web design salutation:salutation: