do not prune  after spring growth has commenced.
botrytis and anthracnose can cause rot of leaves and loss of young growth, usually stems lying on the ground or splashed during irrigation.
red currants are for culinary use: juice, jellies and purees.
depending upon the cultivar, fruits ripen from  70 to 100 days after blossoming.
if the plants are to be grown as standards,  strip all buds off cutting below soil line.
it needs no pruning and stems tend to go blind, shedding dormant buds after the first year.
berries dark red, rather small.
the leaves are alternate, single, lobed and maple-like.
red lake origin w.h. alderman, excelsior mn, 1933.
requires pollinator.
black currant flowers also  attract honeybees.
it survives full sunlight but requires much winter chilling.
earlier fruits will mature while soil remains moist  from winter rains.
irrigation: with their fibrous, shallow roots, currants are are ideal for drip irrigation.
gooseberry mildew infects currants, especially in humid areas, but is not common in california.
very productive on long strigs of small  round berries.
the  leaves are not attractive to deer.
origin bertin, versailles (f), 1840.
weisse aus juterbog - r. petraeum.
currants are unsurpassed for jelly, but are also good in pies and sauces, especially when mixed with fruits that have body but lack sprightliness.
at this point they stop active growth and the watering frequency can  be reduced.
currants are amendable to  container culture.
ripe fruits last long on the bush, often 2 months.
if the fruits  are to be stored at all, they should be picked dry.
to increase both fruit size and number, clip off part of the ends of the strigs while the bushes are flowering.
adaptation: currants grow best in summer humid, cool regions with great winter chilling.
to avoid damaging the fruits, pick a whole strig by its stem, taking care not to damage the spur.
jostaberry jostaberries are hybrids of black currant and the american gooseberry, r. hirtellum, produced in germany, 1930s-50s.
the english word 'currant' has been used for this fruit only since 1550,  taken from the fruit's resemblance to the dried currants of greece, raisins  made from a small seedless grape.
uncommon fruits worthy of attention.
fruit are  astringent, suitable only for culinary uses.
bush spreading, often  trailing and self-layering.
the english word 'currant' has been used for this fruit only since 1550, taken from the fruit's resemblance to the dried currants of greece, raisins made from a small seedless grape.
continue this each season, but by the fourth winter start cutting away at their bases any stems more than three years old.
depending upon the cultivar, fruits ripen from 70 to 100 days after blossoming.
prune so that most fruits are borne on spurs of two- or three-year  old wood.
annual growth is in a single flush in spring.
plant should be removed and burned immediately upon detection.
origin e.g. teas, irvington in, 1878.
an infestation is usually detected only after the stem wilts  and dies.
purple or brownish-red fruit are borne on lax, few-berried strigs.
it is adaptable to a range of climates and the only species recommended for southern california.
bush very spreading, low open.
the lateral buds usually shed, leaving blind branches.
bush spreading, not upright,  withstands california conditions well.
cuttings will quickly root and are best kept in part shade for the first year.
fruits  earliest to ripen, tend to run off (drop) from strig.
buffalo currants ribes aureum.
bush open, spreading,  hardy to cold and sun, resists mildew.
in the winter of the plant's first season, remove at ground level all but two or three stems.
spider mites are common and also  cause foliar distortion.
avoid potassium chloride, because currants are sensitive to the chloride ion.
propagation: currant seeds germinate if stratified for three to four months at temperatures just above freezing.
seedlings are prolific and do not vary much from parent.
saxifragaceae common names: currant (english),  johannisbeere (german), ribes (danish, swedish, italian), groseille (french),  bes (flemish).
seedling of red versailles.
cultivars are selected for the clarity of juice, size of berry and productivity.
the following winter again remove all but two or three that grew the previous season, at which point the bush will have two or three each of one- and two-year old stems.
berries round, seedy.
the strig length is reduced or flowering is suppressed by lack of winter chill.
clear-winged borers lay their eggs on stems in late  spring.
it is adaptable to a range of climates and the only  species recommended for southern california.
black currant leaves are pale green, while those of the red currant are deep  blue-green.
each flower bud opens to number of flowers (up to 20), joined together on a  delicate, drooping 5 - 6 inch stem, called a strig.
berries of red,  white and pink currants are translucent; black currants are matte brown-purple.
aphids commonly distort currant foliage causing red spots.
reading, mass.,  addison-wesley, 1991.
black currants are related to european (r. nigrum) and asian (r. ussuriense ) species.
the foliage is glossy, larger than gooseberry, lobed, scentless and resists mildew.
it  needs no pruning and stems tend to go blind, shedding dormant buds after the  first year.
pollination is by hoverflies and other insects.
the berries contain 3 - 12 minute, bony seeds.
black currants are the traditional source of the french  liqueur, cassis.
it is worst in coastal fog or where irrigation is by  overhead sprinkling.
a thick mulch of some organic material also keeps the soil cool in summer while adding humus to the soil.
they are best adapted to usda hardiness zones 3 through  5, although in california they are fairly productive in the coolest parts of  the san francisco bay area and coastal northern california.
pink currants pink currants are intermediate between red and white types, in degree of  pigmentation.
black currant flowers also attract honeybees.
an albino forms of the red currant.
it makes a prolific production of pea-sized or larger, glossy brownish-purple,  bland-flavored berries with persistent style, that resemble american gooseberry  when cooked.
fairly productive of well-filled strigs.
most currants have self-fertile flowers, but a few cultivars are partially self-sterile, so set more fruits with cross-pollination.
purple or  brownish-red fruit are borne on lax, few-berried strigs.
the bush resembles common ribes,  but is wider and weeping, with branch tips eventually touching the ground.
plants stressed for water are susceptible to mildew.
there is no cure; do not import plant material from european  sources.
culture location: currants like morning sun, afternoon  part-shade and buoyant air circulation.
cultivars  are selected for the clarity of juice, size of berry and productivity.
currant roots are susceptible to both oak root fungus (armillaria) and phytophthora.
currants are unsurpassed for jelly, but are also good in pies and sauces,  especially when mixed with fruits that have body but lack sprightliness.
individual flowers  (green in the case of red currants and blush pink for black currants) are not  showy, but joined together on the strig they give the bush a lacy texture.
annual pruning increases yields and keeps plants manageable.
most cultivars hold well on the plant.
the most feared disease in black (rarely red) currant is reversion virus,  and appears as weakened, barren plants with pleated leaves.
the leaves are not attractive to deer.
white versailles - r. vulgare.
borers will spread and generally cause loss of a whole planting without quick control.
anywhere from three pounds to over ten pounds may be harvested from a single bush.
keep the plants watered until the fruit is  harvested.
take one-foot cuttings of dormant wood in late winter, dip the base in rooting  hormone and pot in ordinary soil.
currant roots are  susceptible to both oak root fungus (armillaria) and phytophthora.
pink currants are intermediate between red and white types, in degree of pigmentation.
cultivars red currants red currants are for culinary use: juice, jellies and purees.
the  bush is very tall, thornless, tends not to branch and requires the space of 2  currant bushes.
strigs clustered at base of current  year's growth, fruits small to average, clear red, midseason.
london, crosby  lockwood & son, 1946 the international ribes association, the ribes reporter, vols.
do not prune after spring growth has commenced.
willoughby origin walter willoughby, parkside, sask., 1940.
berries tend  to "run off", shed before strig fully mature.
flowers are profuse, showy, yellow and fragrant, resemble forsythia in bloom.
the fruit is easier to pick if their strigs are long and have  "handles" (clear lengths at the bases) for holding onto while  harvesting.
it survives full sunlight but requires much winter  chilling.
ripe fruits last long on the  bush, often 2 months.
buffalo currant produces comparable fruit more abundantly in less space and is  recommended instead.
prune so that most fruits are borne on spurs of two- or three-year old wood.
more versatile but less colorful than the red; fine for all culinary uses, but are of lower acidity, thus also suitable for fresh eating.
potassium deficiency, evidenced by marginal scorching of the leaves is averted with about half an once of potassium to the square yard.
buffalo currant produces comparable fruit more abundantly in less space and is recommended instead.
benomyl spray before flowering and after harvest should control it.
currants are easily propagated by hardwood cuttings of one-year old wood.
the virus, which is spread by common and gall mites, is endemic in europe but not yet known in california.
whole stem becomes blind and dies back to ground.
bush vigorous, upright, branching low.
the traditional black currant for making  cassis.
wellington xxx origin r. wellington, east malling (gb), 1913.
fruit: fully set strigs will be a pendulous chain of small berries.
the larvae hatch and bore into the stems where they remain until the following season.
cuttings will quickly root and are best kept  in part shade for the first year.
black currants have a characteristic aroma, highly esteemed by natives of northern europe.
it tolerates a wide range of soils, even alkali, and does not  require much winter chill.
bush vigorous, much branching,  roots most resistant to armillaria, tolerates some dryness.
certain canadian cultivars (consort, crusader, coronet) arer. nigrum x ussuriense hybrids, bred to resist mildew and rust, are self- and inter-sterile and of inferior flavor, are not recommended.
affected buds swell, form dried rosettes, and fail to break  during following spring.
bush rather weak, weeping, fruit hidden inside foliage, difficult to find.
productive, strigs long, flavor fair.
for fresh eating let the berries hang for about three weeks after they color up.
continue this each season, but by the fourth  winter start cutting away at their bases any stems more than three years old.
it is worst in coastal fog or where irrigation is by overhead sprinkling.
avoid  potassium chloride, because currants are sensitive to the chloride ion.
roe, e.p. success with small fruits.
fertile, short strigs, fair flavor.
aphids commonly  distort currant foliage causing red spots.
a thick mulch  of some organic material also keeps the soil cool in summer while adding humus  to the soil.
seedlings are prolific and do  not vary much from parent.
strigs short, many, berries of best flavor.
currants are banned in counties where these pines are grown for lumber.
here is the list of additional  crfg fruit facts.
if the fruits are to be stored at all, they should be picked dry.
the larvae hatch and bore into the stems where they remain until the  following season.
they are currently a subject of commercial promotion, but performance in california is disappointing.
the roots are  superficial, fine and easily damaged by frequent cultivation.
blacksmith origin laxton bros, bedford (gb), 1916.
bush very vigorous, quick to  reach bearing size, much branching.
leaf size and number is reduced under water stress.
leaves also release the scent when rubbed.
take one-foot cuttings of dormant wood in late winter, dip the base in rooting hormone and pot in ordinary soil.
black currants commonly ripen from the top down, encouraging birds to strip berries as they color.
strigs few and short, berries not uniform in size.
sandy soils are less suitable for currants because they dry out  too fast.
black currant leaves are pale green, while those of the red currant are deep blue-green.
currants have also been used for wine, said by some to be similar in flavor to  graves or rhine wines.
ribes species are also host for white pine blister rust, which  causes few problems for currants but is lethal for 5-needle pines, including  california natives such as western white (pinus monticola) and sugar  pine (p. lambertiana).
the following winter again remove all but two or three that  grew the previous season, at which point the bush will have two or three each  of one- and two-year old stems.
they are currently a subject  of commercial promotion, but performance in california is disappointing.
very productive of full strigs of rather oblate, pale red berries.
each flower bud opens to number of flowers (up to 20), joined together on a delicate, drooping 5 - 6 inch stem, called a strig.
bush tall, branches few.
in the winter of the plant's first season, remove at ground level all but two  or three stems.
they are the size of  small gooseberry and lacking in flavor, suitable only for experimentation.
native to american prairies, they are extraordinarily hardy bushes and productive.
the best sorts are nearly transparent.
related species: gooseberry (ribes grossularia, r.  hirtellum), buffalo currant (r. aureum), jostaberry (r. nigrum xhirtellum).
origin s.d. willard, geneva, ny, 1890.
bushes grown from seed bear when two or three years  old.
seedling of fay's prolific.
the plant is a multiple-stemmed  clump, to 5 feet high and as broad, but is suitable for training as a  standard.
clear-winged borers lay their eggs on stems in late spring.
the berries contain 3 - 12 minute, bony seeds.
propagation: currant seeds germinate if stratified for three to  four months at temperatures just above freezing.
they should be  considered experimental only in southern california.
description growth habit: all forms of currant are deciduous  shrubs, fast growing under optimum conditions.
certain canadian cultivars  (consort, crusader, coronet) arer. nigrum x ussuriense hybrids,  bred to resist mildew and rust, are self- and inter-sterile and of inferior  flavor, are not recommended.
bush upright,  not branching, productive, berries quite large but few on strig.
keep plants turgid, never water-stressed.
perfection origin charles hooker, rochester ny, 1887.
white currants an albino forms of the red currant.
leaf size and number is  reduced under water stress.
pests and diseases: currants are subject to a variety of insect and disease pests.
gloire des sablons origin france, ancient.
for fresh eating  let the berries hang for about three weeks after they color up.
black currants black currants have a characteristic aroma, highly esteemed by natives of  northern europe.
fertilization: apply nitrogen at an annual rate of about four ounces per square yard.
new forms of josta, backcrossed to the black currant  parent, may be better than original types.
the bush is very tall, thornless, tends not to branch and requires the space of 2 currant bushes.
affected buds swell, form dried rosettes, and fail to break during following spring.
currants are amendable to container culture.
a distant relative of the common ribes, buffalo  currant is probably closer to gooseberry.
keep the plants watered until the fruit is harvested.
a distant relative of the common ribes, buffalo currant is probably closer to gooseberry.
new forms of josta, backcrossed to the black currant parent, may be better than original types.
with too much nitrogen the plants become more prone to disease.
at this point they stop active growth and the watering frequency can be reduced.
to  increase both fruit size and number, clip off part of the ends of the strigs  while the bushes are flowering.
they should be considered experimental only in southern california.
still the best for fruit quality.
currants have also been used for wine, said by some to be similar in flavor to graves or rhine wines.
they are best adapted to usda hardiness zones 3 through 5, although in california they are fairly productive in the coolest parts of the san francisco bay area and coastal northern california.
to avoid damaging the  fruits, pick a whole strig by its stem, taking care not to damage the spur.
tends to break dormancy early, with protracted bloom, some strigs ripening as  others are still in bloom.
native to american prairies, they are  extraordinarily hardy bushes and productive.
individual flowers (green in the case of red currants and blush pink for black currants) are not showy, but joined together on the strig they give the bush a lacy texture.
pp 101-112, 1261-171.
fairly productive, slow to begin  producing.
they appear in early spring with new growth.
flowers: currant flowers are borne toward the bases of one-year old stems and on spurs on older stems.
yields vary greatly, depending on growing conditions and cultivar.
bush slow growing, upright, sunburns easily.
black  currants are related to european (r. nigrum) and asian (r. ussuriense ) species.
modern red currant varieties have been selected  for their ability to ripen all the berries on a strig at once.
flowers: currant flowers are borne toward the bases of one-year old  stems and on spurs on older stems.
plants can be trained to a number of  utilitarian and decorative forms.
the bush resembles common ribes, but is wider and weeping, with branch tips eventually touching the ground.
the most feared disease in black (rarely red) currant is reversion virus, and appears as weakened, barren plants with pleated leaves.
berries of red, white and pink currants are translucent; black currants are matte brown-purple.
with too much nitrogen the plants become more prone to  disease.
vigorous, habit spreading, bush open.
species: red, pink and white currants belong to three european  species (ribes rubrum, r. petraeum, r. sativum).
wilder - r. vulgare.
withstands adverse conditions (sun).
fruit are astringent, suitable only for culinary uses.
irrigation: with their fibrous, shallow roots, currants are are  ideal for drip irrigation.
ribes species are also host for white pine blister rust, which causes few problems for currants but is lethal for 5-needle pines, including california natives such as western white (pinus monticola) and sugar pine (p. lambertiana).
boskoop giant origin boskoop (nl), 1890s.
most common form of pink currant.
benomyl spray  before flowering and after harvest should control it.
they are the size of small gooseberry and lacking in flavor, suitable only for experimentation.
they can be grown in the high shade of  fruit trees such as persimmon, as well as on the north side of buildings.
currants are banned in counties where these pines  are grown for lumber.
the strig length is  reduced or flowering is suppressed by lack of winter chill.
if the plants are to be grown as standards, strip all buds off cutting below soil line.
gall mite (not reported yet in california) infests dormant buds  during summer.
bush upright, twiggy, roots  particularly susceptible to armillaria.
modern red currant varieties have been selected for their ability to ripen all the berries on a strig at once.
jonkheer van tets origin j. maarse, schellenkhout (nl), 1931.
annual pruning increases yields and keeps plants  manageable.
the plants will not tolerate alkaline or salty soil.
plants can be trained to a number of utilitarian and decorative forms.
blooms early, resists mildew.
new york, collier, 1920 see index of crfg publications, 1969 - 1989 and annual indexes of fruit  gardener for additional articles on currants.
soil: currants are not finicky about soil but, in keeping with  their proclivity for cold, prefer heavier soils richer in clay.
bushes grown from seed bear when two or three years old.
more versatile but less colorful than  the red; fine for all culinary uses, but are of lower acidity, thus also  suitable for fresh eating.
cut out affected stems, search for others and spray.
black currants are the traditional source of the french liqueur, cassis.
the much older english name 'ribes' is of ancient indo-european origin and is common to other languages.
further reading card, f.w. bush fruits.
potassium deficiency, evidenced by marginal scorching of the leaves is  averted with about half an once of potassium to the square yard.
currants can also be grafted, but no advantage is gained.
origin juterbog (d), 1890s.
noir de bourgogne origin dijon (f), very ancient.
skin is colorless, flesh is pink.
gooseberry mildew infects currants, especially in humid areas, but is not  common in california.
it makes a prolific production of pea-sized or larger, glossy brownish-purple, bland-flavored berries with persistent style, that resemble american gooseberry when cooked.
species: red, pink and white currants belong to three european species (ribes rubrum, r. petraeum, r. sativum).
ripens late, hold long  on bush.
most currants have self-fertile flowers, but a few cultivars  are partially self-sterile, so set more fruits with cross-pollination.
botrytis and anthracnose can cause rot of leaves and loss of  young growth, usually stems lying on the ground or splashed during irrigation.
leaves are small, felty, gray-green and many-lobed.
the foliage is glossy, larger than gooseberry, lobed, scentless  and resists mildew.
borers will spread and generally cause loss of a whole planting  without quick control.
the virus, which is  spread by common and gall mites, is endemic in europe but not yet known in  california.
jostaberries are hybrids of black currant and the american gooseberry, r. hirtellum, produced in germany, 1930s-50s.
bush  spreading, tends to layer self.
spider mites are common and also cause foliar distortion.
largest of red currants.
not productive, few berries on short strigs, not adapted to california.
soil: currants are not finicky about soil but, in keeping with their proclivity for cold, prefer heavier soils richer in clay.
crandall origin uncertain, probably iowa, 1890s.
there is no cure; do not import plant material from european sources.
lowest in acid of currants, suitable for dessert.
sandy soils are less suitable for currants because they dry out too fast.
it tolerates a wide range of soils, even alkali, and does not require much winter chill.
currants can also be grafted, but  no advantage is gained.
fertilization: apply nitrogen at an annual rate of about four  ounces per square yard.
an infestation is usually detected only after the stem wilts and dies.
they are palatable raw or cooked.
white imperial - r. rubrum.
© copyright 1996, california rare fruit growers, inc. questions or comments?
adaptation: currants grow best in summer humid, cool regions with  great winter chilling.
each winter also shorten long stems that have grown too scraggly.
the fruit is easier to pick if their strigs are long and have "handles" (clear lengths at the bases) for holding onto while harvesting.
the much older english name 'ribes' is of  ancient indo-european origin and is common to other languages.
black currants commonly ripen from the top down, encouraging birds  to strip berries as they color.
new york, macmillan, 1907 oldham, c.h. the cultivation of berried fruits.
a program of pruning will maintain a continuous supply of such wood.
pests and diseases: currants are subject to a variety of insect and  disease pests.
gall mite (not reported yet in california) infests dormant buds during summer.
related species: gooseberry (ribes grossularia, r. hirtellum), buffalo currant (r. aureum), jostaberry (r. nigrum xhirtellum).
both are easily burned by intense sunlight.
anywhere  from three pounds to over ten pounds may be harvested from a single bush.
the  leaves sunburn readily and the plants collapse quickly when the soil or air  temperature exceeds 85° f. currants can withstand ocean winds but the  salt air will burn the leaves and turn them ragged.