here you can catch a glimpse into the lives of these famed east  african people.
day 1: upon arrival in  arusha, you are met by our guides and transferred to the kigongoni lodge.
for those who do not join the balloon ride this morning youll awaken instead to the calls of the african dove or superb starling.
begin with a very  early start, with a 5 or 5:30am wake up call.
booking terms | links | photo gallery | tour reports | news mbango safaris east africa ltd, lang'ata shopping mall, lang'ata court road, p.o. box 8914 - 00100, nairobi, kenya.
what is included: all park fees, all accommodations based on double occupancy, all meals inclusive of restaurant staff tips, services of guides, land transportation in safari 4x4 vehicles each holding 3 persons, airport transfers to and from hotels, airfare from serengeti to arusha, bottled water at all times and emergency evacuation if necessary.
this  photographic safari will be conducted in the east african country of tanzania,  home to the serengeti national park, the ngorongoro crater and mount  kilimanjaro.
tanzania is a very beautiful country and it was good to have had the opportunity to visit it using the local flights as this saved me a lot of driving time".
contact us for friendly travel advice.
you’ll head out again and will stay immersed in  the bush until the last possible moment.
it will combine an exciting photography workshop in one of the  world's most outstanding wildlife, landscape and cultural locations together  with a luxury vacation in fascinating tanzania.
safari highlight: - 11 days tanzania photography tour.
the same rate applies for each participant regardless of  whether they are doing photography or not.
wake up early  this morning so you can have a few bites to eat and a hot cup of coffee before  departing camp at 6am for the crater floor.
what  is not included:tips for camp staff and guides, fees for passport,  visas, immunizations, and insurance, hot air balloon flight fee of us $ 475,  alcoholic beverages while on safari, laundry, phone and other items of a  personal nature and cost of hospitalization if necessary.
at peak times our confirmation may take up to a day or two to reach you; normally we aim to do it within a day.
it will combine an exciting photography workshop in one of the world's most outstanding wildlife, landscape and cultural locations together with a luxury vacation in fascinating tanzania.
if you have any questions before registering, send us an e-mail with any inquiries to:safaris@mbangosafaris.com.
after breakfast you’ll  have a full day to journey far and wide in this immense park, allowing your  guide’s unerring instincts to lead the way.
even  non-photographers will find the locales visited and the wildlife viewing  opportunities to be thrilling.
please consult the nearest embassy about your  requirements as soon as possible before traveling.
alternatively, fill our online  booking form.
arrive in time for a farewell lunch at river house with your new safari friends.
after breakfast youll have a full day to journey far and wide in this immense park, allowing your guides unerring instincts to lead the way.
dinner is sure  to be a lively, engaging affair as guests swap stories about all that you saw.
- a must for enthusiastic beginner and seasoned photographers.
enjoy dinner at camp tonight in the  cool night time air.
return to your lodge this afternoon.
if you will be traveling alone and would like a private room  there will be a single room supplementary charge of us $ 1,200.
there will be no classroom sessions, no lectures, no slide shows, and most importantly, no unnecessary egos.
upon your return to camp late afternoon you can relax in the tranquility of your tent as you reflect on todays activities.
after breakfast youll depart by road for arusha.
the area is world-renowned in its reputation and very small in its scale, so you will see other safari goers.
capture some phenomenal images in the pristine morning light.
m.d, kent, new hampshire.
as the sun rises, you  lift gently off the ground, enjoying a bird’s eye perspective as you skim  over the tops of acacia trees, meander over the seronera river and finally  touch down.
dont let that distract you from the beauty of the place or from the fact that this remains one of the only places on earth where you may see all of the big five at once: lion, leopard, bull elephant, african buffalo and black rhino.
- annual wildebeests and zebras calving period.
tour reports and how to book your place.
facebook, skype, msn, yahoo messenger id: mbangosafaris.
optional hot air balloon is us $ 475 per person.
before sunset, it is time to depart this garden of  eden for the comfort of your camp, where you will have time to discuss the  multitude of sightings today and log them in your safari journal.
while tanzania's kenyan neighbors may dispute that claim, there is no doubt that tanzania offers one of the best environments in the world for an enriching wildlife experience.
you’ll be greeted with a champagne toast and treated to a full  english breakfast.
the planned range of habitats visited provided opportunities for good  photography of birds, mammals and nature.
day 9: ngorongoro crater.
costs incurred by such changes will be the responsibility of the participant.
we will have discussion and assistance on specialized topics such as, for example, wildlife observation, field craft and east african animal behavior.
arrive at ndutu safari lodge in time to settle in and enjoy lunch  before returning to your trusty safari vehicles for more exploration this  afternoon.
head  out again this afternoon to continue your exploration of this world renowned  ecosystem.
for a new perspective on the scenery, you will move to a new location in the park.
because of the unique location of this workshop, and the luxury accommodations, this workshop adventure is open to spouses as well as photographers.
its cities are relaxed and friendly.
today you have the option of joining a serengeti balloon safari  (additional fee and advance reservations required).
the country's  game viewing opportunities are considered by many to be the best in africa.
tanzania, south of kenya on the african continent's indian ocean coastline, lays claim to the title home of the safari, since the word itself is taken from the swahili word that means "journey."
© 2004 - 2011 mbango safaris east africa ltd.
this photographic safari will be conducted in the east african country of tanzania, home to the serengeti national park, the ngorongoro crater and mount kilimanjaro.
you may also  see tightly grouped herds of wildebeest, which often gather together during  their prolific calving season.
we will attempt to  notify participants of changes as far in advance as possible.
after breakfast youll be transferred to the airstrip for your 8am flight to the serengeti.
stop for a picnic lunch at your leisure and later today, after a wealth of opportunities for more wildlife photography, youll return to the comforts of your lodge.
as  you gaze up at the stars over southern hemisphere, you will feel privileged to  have experienced this special place.
make your way around the southern rim of the crater and arrive at your nyumba, situated amongst picturesque flat-top acacia trees, in time to freshen up before visiting the nearby maasai boma of irkeepusi.
learn about their history, culture and their pastoralist lives  tending sheep, goats, and cattle.
this fee includes all in-country  ground and air transportation as well as hotel accommodation (double occupancy)  and all meals.
- ngorongoro conservation area / crater and serengeti  eco-system - 30,000 sq km's wilderness.
tour reports and  how to book your place.
day 2: arusha to serengeti national park.
take a packed breakfast with you to enjoy  while you continue to explore the park.
lunch at the camp before venturing out in the afternoon to return to the camp in time to refresh before your evening meal.
- unlimited game drives in search of great photography opportunities.
- annual wildebeests and zebras  calving period.
day 4: serengeti national park.
day rooms are provided for you to rest and relax before check-in at the airport tonight.
temps can dip down to 40-55º f; make sure to bring a  fleece jacket and layer clothing while staying at the crater.
sitting on a hilltop with lush gardens, the lodge offers  breathtaking views of mt kilimanjaro and mt meru.
after  breakfast you’ll depart by road for arusha.
few travelers ever have the privilege of seeing, the world as it was in the beginning.
the rooms, cocktail lounge, and restaurant - all with fireplaces are furnished in an intimate and comfortable manner, maximizing the sites unique views and natural features.
tucked between the trees are eighteen cottages, built in traditional african styles and materials.
its game parks are populated with many of the world's most exotic creatures, including all of the "big five."
your journey will take you throughout this tremendous landscape that is constantly changing as animals move to and fro in search of pasture, water or east prey.
day 4: serengeti  national park.
after breakfast you’ll be  transferred to the airstrip for your 8am flight to the serengeti.
if this exciting trip has your name on it; if you're excited by the thought of becoming a member of this trip, then now is the time to register.
day 2: arusha to  serengeti national park.
today youll have another full day to the serengeti.
roll down the windows, or stand up to take advantage of the customized roof hatch, feeling the fresh air rush past as you navigate winding paths and secret trails in your pursuit of interesting wildlife sightings.
today is your first morning in the bush.
maximize the light of the early morning and return to camp for a hearty lunch and a brief afternoon repose.
you may also see tightly grouped herds of wildebeest, which often gather together during their prolific calving season.
a hearty breakfast prepared by experienced chefs wakens your senses and prepares you for a full day of wildlife viewing.
we will  have discussion and assistance on specialized topics such as, for example,  wildlife observation, field craft and east african animal behavior.
day 1: upon arrival in arusha, you are met by our guides and transferred to the kigongoni lodge.
alternatively, fill our online booking form.
meander through  the wildlife-rich territories of the fertile southern serengeti plains.
you may see gazelle, wildebeest, zebra, giraffe, lion, hippo, buffalo and much more.
rise for breakfast before you spend a fully day exploring the crater floor.
costs incurred by  such changes will be the responsibility of the participant.
don’t let that distract you from the beauty of the place or from the  fact that this remains one of the only places on earth where you may see all of  the big five at once: lion, leopard, bull elephant, african buffalo and black  rhino.
a  hearty breakfast prepared by experienced chefs wakens your senses and prepares  you for a full day of wildlife viewing.
retire to your comfortable camp beds after a full and  satisfying day.
arrive in time for a farewell  lunch at river house with your new safari friends.
the sounds of  buff-bellied warblers and african doves provide your gentle wake-up call.
- maximum of  9 participants with no more than 3 photographers per safari vehicle.
this evening back at camp youll have time to visit with friends before sitting down to a hearty meal.
the non refundable deposit for this trip is us $1,200.
here you can catch a glimpse into the lives of these famed east african people.
tanzania, south of  kenya on the african continent's indian ocean coastline, lays claim to the  title home of the safari, since the word itself is taken from the swahili word  that means "journey."
this fee includes all in-country ground and air transportation as well as hotel accommodation (double occupancy) and all meals.
you may see gazelle, wildebeest, zebra, giraffe, lion, hippo,  buffalo and much more.
mbango safaris have experience of operating tours in east africa & beyond.
- specially outfitted photographers 4wd safari vehicles.
day 6: serengeti national park.
sleep soundly  tonight.
today you have the option of joining a serengeti balloon safari (additional fee and advance reservations required).
sitting on a hilltop with lush gardens, the lodge offers breathtaking views of mt kilimanjaro and mt meru.
remember, there will  be limited space available for this tour.
day rooms are provided for  you to rest and relax before check-in at the airport tonight.
with this  perspective, you have unhindered 360º views, and the possibilities for  what lies in store are endless!
client comments: "the internal flights in tanzania could hardly have been better - punctual and with the expected level of service.
today you’ll have another full day to the serengeti.
the country's game viewing opportunities are considered by many to be the best in africa.
enjoy a special boxed lunch today.
- ngorongoro conservation area / crater and serengeti eco-system - 30,000 sq km's wilderness.
make your way around the southern rim  of the crater and arrive at your nyumba, situated amongst picturesque flat-top  acacia trees, in time to freshen up before visiting the nearby maasai boma of  irkeepusi.
begin with a very early start, with a 5 or 5:30am wake up call.
grab some coffee and a light snack so you can hit the road right at 6am, when driving is permitted in the park.
booking terms | links | photo gallery | tour  reports | news mbango safaris east africa ltd, lang'ata shopping mall, lang'ata  court road, p.o. box 8914 - 00100, nairobi, kenya.
temps can dip down to 40-55º f; make sure to bring a fleece jacket and layer clothing while staying at the crater.
most of europe nationalities passport holders and most other nationalities requirea visa for tanzania which is obtained in advance from the nearest embassy.
most of europe nationalities passport holders and most  other nationalities requirea visa for tanzania which is obtained in advance  from the nearest embassy.
learn about their history, culture and their pastoralist lives tending sheep, goats, and cattle.
you begin your quest to discover abundant and fascinating animal behavior in the park.
we will all work closely together, sharing our knowledge and experience.
- 2 million herbivores and  predators.
serengeti photo safari | mara photo workshop tanzania photography safari: serengeti national park &  ngorongoro conservation area.
then you’ll head to the crater floor once again to capture the best  afternoon light on film.
as you sit  comfortably on your verandah, sipping hot drinks and watching the day break,  you may even spot giraffe or zebra grazing in the distance.
tel: 00 254 20 - 600 14 54, 221 23 54,211 24 33 / 4.
keep an eye open for newly born calves  frolicking on the open plains.
here in these desolate gullies, several generations  of the leakey family toiled for decades in search of prehistoric clues in the  mystery of human evolution.
remember, there will be limited space available for this tour.
kigongoni lodge is located on an historic 70-acre coffee farm near arusha, amid natural forest.
the area is world-renowned in its  reputation and very small in its scale, so you will see other safari goers.
its cities are relaxed and  friendly.
the experience begins with  an early rise (about 4am) and pre-dawn drive to the balloon launch site, where  you will be given a balloon briefing prior to take-off.
client comments: "the internal flights in tanzania  could hardly have been better - punctual and with the expected level of  service.
under your dining tent, hot soup, fresh bread, entrees and dessert await your evening indulgence.
day 6: serengeti  national park.
you begin your  quest to discover abundant and fascinating animal behavior in the park.
once we have received your request / booking we will confirm your  booking and send you all the further details necessary for you to prepare for  your holiday.
day 8: serengeti national park  / ngorongoro conservation area via olduvai gorge.
this tour will be very informal and fun.
kigongoni lodge is located on an historic 70-acre coffee farm near arusha, amid  natural forest.
wake up early this morning so you can have a few bites to eat and a hot cup of coffee before departing camp at 6am for the crater floor.
we will attempt to notify participants of changes as far in advance as possible.
as you sit comfortably on your verandah, sipping hot drinks and watching the day break, you may even spot giraffe or zebra grazing in the distance.
here in these desolate gullies, several generations of the leakey family toiled for decades in search of prehistoric clues in the mystery of human evolution.
however, certain conditions (political, climatic, environmental, cultural, or wildlife migrations) may necessitate changes in the itinerary.
maximize the light of the early  morning and return to camp for a hearty lunch and a brief afternoon repose.
tanzania is a very beautiful country and it was good  to have had the opportunity to visit it using the local flights as this saved  me a lot of driving time".
the guides at ngorongoro and serengeti were excellent.
exotic birdcalls fill the air and hints of freshly brewed  tanzanian coffee mean that breakfast awaits you.
we will  all work closely together, sharing our knowledge and experience.
entry  requirements.
- departure dates: 20 th february - 2 nd march 2011.
return to camp in time to refresh before your  first dinner in the welcoming, open-sided dining room.
as soon as you land, you will meet your safari guides and begin wildlife viewing en route to camp, where you will have lunch followed by a safari briefing.
-  departure dates: 20 th february - 2 nd march 2011.
ngorongoro crater to arusha to amsterdam.
for those who do not join the balloon ride this morning you’ll awaken  instead to the calls of the african dove or superb starling.
tucked between the trees are  eighteen cottages, built in traditional african styles and materials.
day 7: serengeti national park.
our groups are small, so space is limited.
head out again this afternoon to continue your exploration of this world renowned ecosystem.
after a busy day and delicious evening  meal, head off to bed early to write in your safari journal and get a good  night’s rest.
dinner is sure to be a lively, engaging affair as guests swap stories about all that you saw.
the cost for non-photographers is the same as for active participants.
retire to your comfortable camp beds after a full and satisfying day.
continue your conversation around the campfire tonight and then head off to bed for a good rest.
when they're spoken for,  that's it.
the planned range of habitats visited provided opportunities for good photography of birds, mammals and nature.
out on the plains, you will be looking for warthog, jackal,  eland, kudu, reedbuck, baboon, topi, hyena, gerenuk and giraffe.
serengeti photo safari | mara photo workshop tanzania photography safari: serengeti national park & ngorongoro conservation area.
few travelers ever have the privilege of seeing, “the world as  it was in the beginning.”
the  cost for 2011 tour all-inclusive isus $ 9,290 per person(but not inclusive of international airfare to arusha,  tanzania).
continue your conversation around the campfire tonight and then head off to bed  for a good rest.
the same rate applies for each participant regardless of whether they are doing photography or not.
heading east, you’ll arrive at olduvai gorge, an  archeological site of extraordinary importance in our understanding of the  origins of “man.”
day 3: serengeti national park.
the  rooms, cocktail lounge, and restaurant - all with fireplaces – are  furnished in an intimate and comfortable manner, maximizing the site’s  unique views and natural features.
leaving your room and walking through the lush garden is a gentle reminder that you are now in africa.
the sounds of buff-bellied warblers and african doves provide your gentle wake-up call.
rise for breakfast before you  spend a fully day exploring the crater floor.
in the river systems that flow through the park you can spot hippos,  kingfishers, egrets, monitor lizards and some of the largest crocodiles in  africa.
spanning nearly 6,000 square miles, the serengeti has even more to offer you today.
keep an eye open for newly born calves frolicking on the open plains.
an infinite number of dramas
fax: 00 254 - 20 600 14 53, 222 93 54.
we reserves the  right to alter any itinerary at any time, if necessary.
day 8: serengeti national park / ngorongoro conservation area via olduvai gorge.
later  this morning you’ll all regroup to continue your wildlife viewing for the  rest of the day, going back to the camp to enjoy a lunch before returning to  the bush for more photography.
the vast open expanses of space, the multitude of animals inhabiting the pristine landscape, all of this will leave you in awe and impress even the most seasoned wildlife enthusiast.
you will also need to have various vaccinations and  take malaria prophylactic.
we reserves the right to alter any itinerary at any time, if necessary.
when they're spoken for, that's it.
rise early on your final  morning in the serengeti.
an infinite number of dramas play themselves out on these endless plains: predators stalk prey, animals eat, scavenge and graze, mothers nurture their young, birds hover and soar overhead, young animals frolic as older animals keep a watchful eye on them in short, it is a story of life and death, decay and renewal and ultimately, survival of the fittest.
- maximum of 9 participants with no more than 3 photographers per safari vehicle.
the experience begins with an early rise (about 4am) and pre-dawn drive to the balloon launch site, where you will be given a balloon briefing prior to take-off.
if you will be traveling alone and would like a private room there will be a single room supplementary charge of us $ 1,200.
meander through the wildlife-rich territories of the fertile southern serengeti plains.
yet, to a greater degree than is true of many of its neighbors, this sprawling county, the largest in east africa, remains untouched by the vacationing hordes.
- specially  outfitted photographers 4wd safari vehicles.
- 2 million herbivores and predators.
heading east, youll arrive at olduvai gorge, an archeological site of extraordinary importance in our understanding of the origins of man.
arrive at ndutu safari lodge in time to settle in and enjoy lunch before returning to your trusty safari vehicles for more exploration this afternoon.
e-mail: info@mbangosafaris.com, safaris@mbangosafaris.com member of: east africa natural history society, east africa wildlife society, kenya professional safari guides association, kenya association of tour operators, kenya tourism federation, kenya museum society and eco-tourism society of kenya .
later this  morning you’ll return to your lodge for an early lunch followed by a short  afternoon repose.
its lakes are huge and bountiful with fish.
as the sun rises, you lift gently off the ground, enjoying a birds eye perspective as you skim over the tops of acacia trees, meander over the seronera river and finally touch down.
once we have received your request / booking we will confirm your booking and send you all the further details necessary for you to prepare for your holiday.
looking for a photographic destination of a lifetime?
if you have any questions before registering, send us an e-mail with  any inquiries to:safaris@mbangosafaris.com.
safari highlight: - 11 days tanzania photography tour.
what is not included:tips for camp staff and guides, fees for passport, visas, immunizations, and insurance, hot air balloon flight fee of us $ 475, alcoholic beverages while on safari, laundry, phone and other items of a personal nature and cost of hospitalization if necessary.
your journey will take you  throughout this tremendous landscape that is constantly changing as animals  move to and fro in search of pasture, water or east prey.
as soon as  you land, you will meet your safari guides and begin wildlife viewing en route  to camp, where you will have lunch followed by a safari briefing.
more wildlife viewing is on the agenda today.
return to camp in time to refresh before your first dinner in the welcoming, open-sided dining room.
if this  exciting trip has your name on it; if you're excited by the thought of becoming  a member of this trip, then now is the time to register.
after a delicious meal  this evening you will have a chance to relax around a roaring campfire and fall  asleep to the sound of nearby animals.
safari destinations | conservation | general info |
optional  hot air balloon is us $ 475 per person.
enjoy engaging conversation around the crackling night fire this evening.
please consult the nearest embassy about your requirements as soon as possible before traveling.
upon your return to camp late afternoon  you can relax in the tranquility of your tent as you reflect on today’s
this evening back at  camp you’ll have time to visit with friends before sitting down to a  hearty meal.
take a packed breakfast with you to enjoy while you continue to explore the park.
its  game parks are populated with many of the world's most exotic creatures,  including all of the "big five."
out on the plains, you will be looking for warthog, jackal, eland, kudu, reedbuck, baboon, topi, hyena, gerenuk and giraffe.
you will awake to a new world this morning.
enjoy dinner at camp tonight in the cool night time air.
after a delicious meal this evening you will have a chance to relax around a roaring campfire and fall asleep to the sound of nearby animals.
the guides at ngorongoro and  serengeti were excellent.
for a new perspective on the scenery, you will move to a new location in  the park.
sleep soundly tonight.
stop for a picnic lunch at your  leisure and later today, after a wealth of opportunities for more wildlife  photography, you’ll return to the comforts of your lodge.
stop to enjoy a picnic lunch around noon, and then continue your gradual ascent into ngorongoro conservation area.
play themselves out on these endless plains: predators stalk prey, animals eat,  scavenge and graze, mothers nurture their young, birds hover and soar overhead,  young animals frolic as older animals keep a watchful eye on them… in  short, it is a story of life and death, decay and renewal and ultimately,  survival of the fittest.
day 5: serengeti national park.
leaving  your room and walking through the lush garden is a gentle reminder that you are  now in africa.
as you gaze up at the stars over southern hemisphere, you will feel privileged to have experienced this special place.
the small museum details some of their most important finds, among them the skull of zinjanthropus man and the 3.6 million year old australopithecine footprints from nearby laetoli.
because of the unique location of this workshop, and the luxury accommodations,  this workshop adventure is open to spouses as well as photographers.
the small museum details some of their most  important finds, among them the skull of “zinjanthropus man” and the  3.6 million year old australopithecine footprints from nearby laetoli.
what is included: all park fees, all accommodations based on  double occupancy, all meals inclusive of restaurant staff tips, services of  guides, land transportation in safari 4x4 vehicles each holding 3 persons,  airport transfers to and from hotels, airfare from serengeti to arusha, bottled  water at all times and emergency evacuation if necessary.
grab some coffee and a light  snack so you can hit the road right at 6am, when driving is permitted in the  park.
e-mail: info@mbangosafaris.com,  safaris@mbangosafaris.com member of: east africa natural  history society, east africa wildlife society, kenya professional safari guides association, kenya  association of tour operators, kenya tourism federation, kenya museum society and eco-tourism society of kenya .
after a busy day and delicious evening meal, head off to bed early to write in your safari journal and get a good nights rest.
yet, to a greater degree than is true of many of its neighbors, this  sprawling county,  the largest in east africa, remains untouched by the  vacationing hordes.
later this morning youll return to your lodge for an early lunch followed by a short afternoon repose.
roll down the windows, or stand up to take advantage of the customized roof  hatch, feeling the fresh air rush past as you navigate winding paths and secret  trails in your pursuit of interesting wildlife sightings.
cellphone: 00 254 - 722 524 987, 733 681 240.
however, certain conditions (political, climatic, environmental, cultural, or  wildlife migrations) may necessitate changes in the itinerary.
please note: we will attempt to adhere to this itinerary as much as possible.
accommodations are two person to a room.
accommodations are two  person to a room.
while tanzania's kenyan neighbors may  dispute that claim, there is no doubt that tanzania offers one of the best  environments in the world for an enriching wildlife experience.
exotic birdcalls fill the air and hints of freshly brewed tanzanian coffee mean that breakfast awaits you.
this tour  is about shooting.
lunch at the  camp before venturing out in the afternoon to return to the camp in time to  refresh before your evening meal.
at peak times our confirmation may take up to a day or two to  reach you; normally we aim to do it within a day.
kenya photo safari | mara photo safari |
this tour is about shooting.
tel: 00 254 20 - 600 14  54, 221 23 54,211 24 33 / 4.
with this perspective, you have unhindered 360º views, and the possibilities for what lies in store are endless!
then youll head to the crater floor once again to capture the best afternoon light on film.
under your dining tent, hot soup, fresh bread, entrees and dessert await  your evening indulgence.
- unlimited game drives in  search of great photography opportunities.
there will be no classroom sessions, no  lectures, no slide shows, and most importantly, no unnecessary egos.
the vast open expanses of space, the  multitude of animals inhabiting the pristine landscape, all of this will leave  you in awe and impress even the most seasoned wildlife enthusiast.
before sunset, it is time to depart this garden of eden for the comfort of your camp, where you will have time to discuss the multitude of sightings today and log them in your safari journal.
youll be greeted with a champagne toast and treated to a full english breakfast.
the cost for 2011 tour all-inclusive isus $ 9,290 per person(but not inclusive of international airfare to arusha, tanzania).
your first glimpse of the crater  floor is nothing short of awe-inspiring.
you will also need to have various vaccinations and take malaria prophylactic.
spanning nearly 6,000 square miles, the serengeti has even more to offer you  today.
stop to enjoy a picnic lunch around noon, and then continue your gradual  ascent into ngorongoro conservation area.
youll head out again and will stay immersed in the bush until the last possible moment.
your first glimpse of the crater floor is nothing short of awe-inspiring.
in the river systems that flow through the park you can spot hippos, kingfishers, egrets, monitor lizards and some of the largest crocodiles in africa.
later this morning youll all regroup to continue your wildlife viewing for the rest of the day, going back to the camp to enjoy a lunch before returning to the bush for more photography.
the cost for non-photographers is the same as  for active participants.
mbango safaris have experience of operating tours in east africa  & beyond.
even non-photographers will find the locales visited and the wildlife viewing opportunities to be thrilling.
rise early on your final morning in the serengeti.