this is reputed to be the most cold hardy species of the genus, tolerating -20 degrees.
gyokucho folding saw (fine) gyokucho folding saw /
chusquea nigricans may do all right, but there are no other clumpers that will do well in this climate.
then the culm  sheaths fall, revealing light green smooth canes with slightly enlarged nodes.
otherwise similar to phba.
great bamboo to work with!
it produces especially  tasty shoots in tropical environments and is used throughout asia for  construction.
for example, red and purplish coloration of canes is only brought out by direct sun consistently hitting the canes themselves.
however, in the afternoon the plant  prefers shade, and hot afternoon sun will yellow the leaves.
sbma sasaella masamuneana ground cover bamboo with  dark green foliage that grows to 14" in the shade and 4' in full sun.
shoots in  the spring.
its best feature is its foliage with rather large leaves, about 2" x 6", providing a texture that contrasts with other small-leaved plants.
phdec ph. decora culms are green with subtle rusty mottling.
after  the first few months, you can usually depend on a spray emitter irrigation  system, using 2 to 4 high volume emitters per plant.
growth habit may  be vertical & narrow, bushy & wide, weeping, arching at the top, dense  or airy, etc.
also, as a rule of thumb, if the leaves are curling  sideways (lengthwise) this means your bamboo is stressed and not getting enough  water.
bashania a genus of two species of running bamboos from china which shoots in early  spring.
it is a vigorous runner, hardy to -5 degrees.
hca himalayacalamus asper (formerly nmc: neo. microphyllus)
also fargesias, himalayacalamus hookerianus "blue bamboo," chusquea circinata, and ch. sulcata will not do well in areas where the temperatures exceed 100 f. and summer nights are above 70 f. south east (hot, humid summers, some winter frost and down to 10 f. in some areas)
growing 20-25' tall with  1½" diameter culms, this plant is unique in being so brightly  variegated and also tall.
looks best  in part shade where leaves grow dark green; leaves exposed to bright sun are  more yellow.
leaves are relatively wide for their length and attractively arranged.
these are very general guidelines and there can always be exceptions, depending on the situation.
dry soils are a barrier to root growth.
gophers: in northern california we have an abundance of gophers and squirrels, who think tender new rhizomes, bamboo shoots, and even new branch buds are a delicacy.
it shares some characteristics  of both phyllostachys and pleioblastus.
follow directions on bottle, including all safety  precautions.
plcw pleioblastus chino 'vaginatus variegatus' narrower leaves and variegation intermediate between the two forms above.
reaches up to 27' tall, with dark green  leaves 5/8" x 4".
bmpa bambusa multiplex 'alphonse karr'
node point on the culm from which branches and leaves grow  on the outside, and where the diaphragm appears inside, separating hollow  segments of the culm.
the ants themselves do not harm the bamboo.
fan fargesia nitida (seedling) formerly known as  sinarundinaria nitida.
with a bamboo purchase of $100 or more, you can purchase barrier at a special discount price of $3.50/ft.
occasionally, check moisture in the ground by digging down to a depth of at least 4 inches.
our price list is updated frequently and includes information about size, running/clumping type, sun exposure, cold tolerance, maximum heights possible in their ideal native environments, and current availability for each plant.
cold hardy to 20 f. excellent specimen plant  or hedge.
if the canes are not damaged, new leaves will bud out again when the weather warms up.
otatea a genus of medium sized tropical mexican bamboos which shoot in mid-summer.
yum yushania maling (also known as arundinaria maling).
by the time the mother plant finishes flowering, you may already have new seedlings well on their way!
for example, red and purplish  coloration of canes is only brought out by direct sun consistently hitting the  canes themselves.
tar thamnocalamus aristatus attractive lacey bamboo from the himalayas.
the roots generally do not grow deeper than 6-18 inches and you usually can chop them into chunks and pull them out piece by piece.
culms are olive green and are useful for many purposes, at about 20' of height by 1" diameter with some arching at the top.
old or dead culms can be thinned out to make more light available for new growth.
bmpg bambusa multiplex 'golden goddess' growth habit  similar to 'fernleaf' but smaller, with smaller leaves and light orange canes.
it grows up to 35' tall and 2" in diameter in  the climate of origin and about 25' tall in the sf bay area.
shade loving but can withstand some sun.
as culms mature, they become a pale, yellow green.
to purchase plants, please see our plant price list, which also  contains photo access and specific details about each plant.
see below for stronger measures, if  required.
it is an outstandingly  beautiful ornamental.
some grow in tight clumps, others in open groves.
psat pseudosasa amabilis "tonkin cane" formerly known  as arundinaria amabilis known for the very high quality of its wood.
the contrast between light-colored  leaves and dark canes is quite striking.
they usually get no taller than 6', have one branch at each node, and look best grown in some shade.
semiarundinaria a genus of colorful medium size running bamboos from east asia three  branches per node and nearly cylindrical culms.
order tape from menu to the left - one roll will be sufficient for 2 seams.
consider all of the advantages and disadvantages of clumpers and runners for you.
near ocean (at least 200' away from water, with salt laden air, but not salt spray)
without the layer of gravel, the pot must be raised up to keep it out of the water that collects in the saucer.
as with the other forms of  ph. nigra, 'bory' has very beautiful structure and foliage.
flowered and produced seed at bamboo sourcery in 1995.
recommended: bambusas, chusqueas, dendrocalamus, drepanostachyums, himalayacalamus, and all phyllostachys, including ph. nigra 'henon,' except those noted below.
amazed at its structural integrity and aesthetic possibilities, he embarked on a program of research which has taken him to asia, costa rica, brazil, and elsewhere to study this plant and to create experimental structures.
the following recommendations are generalizations, and do not account for microclimatic differences.
this entire information supplement can be printed from our website (see printable versions for part i and part ii), and is also available in black and white hard copy to mail order for $3.00.
chcq chusquea culeou (61-11) 'chilean straight' a superlative hardy ornamental, long cultivated in england but new to the usa.
all forms share the moniker "hedge bamboo,"  taking well to pruning and shaping.
we discuss below the various factors involved in selecting the plants that  will best suit your needs and your location from the myriad of bamboos  available.
inla indocalamus latifolius has leaves 2" wide by  1' long with a somewhat stiff and spiky appearance.
bambusoides 'slender crookstem'(phbr) and ph. nigra  'daikokuchiku' “'giant black' (phnff) grow the largest in northern  california.
nearly all can thrive with hot summers and cold winters.
30" x 40 mil plastic rhizome barrier 30" wide x 40 mil.
dosage depends on size of container: 1 tbsp per 1 gal container, 2 tbsp per 5 gal container, 4 tbsp per 15 gal container, ½ c. per 25 gal container, 1 c. per 3' x 3' container.
can grow 25' tall and 1½" in diameter.
shoots in the spring.
color and other characteristics  are identical to the 'henon', but this dwarf is now the smallest known plant in  the phyllostachys genus.
all grow best in full sun but can take some shade.
arundinaria bambusa bashania borinda brachystachyum chimonobambusa chusquea drepanostachyum fargesia
thin culm sheaths fall away within a year.
leaves can  reach 15" in length and 4" in width.
culms are light green to brown.
after plants in the ground reach the desired height & density, maintain with 16-6-8 twice a year in march & june.
also, in full sun, dry, windy or hot situations, it is ideal to spray the foliage with water once a day for an initial transition period of 2-4 weeks, and/or all summer in dry, hot climates.
a clumping type, but this is one of a handful of bamboos that grow new culms from the nodes of existing culms as well as from the root.
shiney dark green leaves have a sprinkling of bright yellow and cream stripes.
thamnocalamus a genus of clumping mountain bamboos from asia and africa.
it's best to select bamboos that will tolerate temperatures well below the lowest temperatures you've experienced in perhaps the last 10 years in order to ensure healthy plants long-term.
grows to 20-30' tall, is hardy to -5  degrees and needs half to full day sun.
cold  hardy to -15 degrees.
early spring after danger of frost  is past is the best time to plant, in order to allow them to get established  before the extreme heat arrives, and it's good to shelter plants from extreme  heat, cold, or sun when first planted.
chusquea  nigricans may do all right, but there are no other clumpers that will do well  in this climate.
adjustable spout & pump: 18" attractive and practical design with an adjustable base.
indigenous bamboos are widely found throughout asia, africa, australia, and north and south america.
grows up to 31' tall with 2¾" diameter culms in the climate of origin, but is typically half that tall in the sf bay area, where it is usually grown as a short, arching hedge.
flowered  and produced seed at bamboo sourcery in 1995.
it is good for hedges up to about 8' in height in n. cal, though it grows to 18' in the climate of origin.
certain plants, when grown in  california, reach 50% of the height they achieve in the climate of origin.
likes shade and moisture, grows 3' to 5' tall, and is hardy to -10  degrees.
start on the outside of the clump or grove and work your way inward.
all plants will look somewhat  better if in shade some part of the day.
foliage is dark green.
if the plant is small, simply washing the leaves under running water can be effective.
shoots of some species in mature groves in tropical climates have actually been clocked growing 4 feet in one 24-hour period!
sat sasa tsuboiana attractive dark green foliage with leaves reaching 7" in length.
it behaves as a clumper in cool  summer climates and a runner in warm ones.
sustainably harvested & annually renewable: mature bamboos produce new shoots and canes each year, which can be harvested individually without destroying the plant.
phps ph. heteroclada 'solid stem' this variety has  light green culm sheaths with a white edge which are retained, creating a  pattern on the culm.
the most effective method of removal of bamboo is to dig out the entire root and rhizome mass as thoroughly as possible, including fragments.
as a young plant's rhizome system expands, its ability increases to produce larger, taller, and more numerous culms.
tts thamnocalamus tessellatus also known as berg  bamboo in south africa, where it is the only native.
the heaviest shooting occurs in spring.
hardy to -5 f. fam fargesia murieliae "umbrella bamboo" an attractive clumping ornamental frequently used in european gardens, it is hardy to -20 degrees, likes shade, and grows to 15' tall.
it grows from 6 to 10', has stiffly vertical leaves and branches, and thrives between 0 and 90 degrees.
cold-hardiness can be extended considerably by putting a very deep  mulch over the bamboos in the fall.
oaaz otatea acuminata aztecorum "mexican weeping" a beautiful, drought resistant, clumping ornamental from the chaparral of mexico.
for greater growth of roots and shoots.
in maturity, it has the characteristic weeping  "umbrella" shape, and the culm sheaths and branches are copper  colored.
if you have a pressure washer, use it once every week or two on the  bamboo.
hardy to -5 degrees and likes morning sun, afternoon shade.
insects may be treated with the usual sprays (best applied outdoors).
if you live within a 2-hour drive of sebastopol, ca and have a  significant amount of a species we can use, we may be able to come, during the  appropriate digging seasons for your particular plant, and remove your bamboo.
most attractive when pruned down to 3"  in spring and allowed to shoot and releaf with new foliage.
humidity: bamboos need high ambient moisture levels.
grows  to a maximum of 50' and 3" in diameter, and to 30' and 2" in northern  california.
btu bambusa tuldoides also known as "punting pole bamboo" from its asian heritage of poling boats.
the new culms often have a pinkish or reddish cast.
tolerates a full day of sun, but  also is less cold hardy at 25 degrees.
under ideal conditions it  can grow to 55' tall and 2 ¼" in diameter.
the parts of canes which are dead will not produce new leaves and may be cut off.
its best feature is its foliage with rather  large leaves, about 2" x 6",” providing a texture that contrasts  with other small-leaved plants.
it is hardy to heat and  drought tolerant, but is sensitive to salts and minerals in the air, water and  soil, which readily result in leaf tip burn.
it can be cut to any length and installed in any shape desired.
the roots generally do  not grow deeper than 6-18 inches and you usually can chop them into chunks and  pull them out piece by piece.
leaves may be striped and variegated, yellow or  white with green, long and thin, large and wide, or very small.
traditionally used as a blowpipe for cooking in taiwan.
hardy to 10 degrees or -10 degrees if heavily mulched.
thick polyethylene, priced per foot.
no pole is perfectly straight.
most will do better with a few hours of direct sun.
it is likely that you will miss a few root fragments here and there, and  over the next few seasons you may see an occasional shoot coming up.
it grows in full sun to light shade and is hardy to 0 degrees.
we use apex, 14-14-14, a product similar to osmocote, 14-14-14, with a 4-6 month release rate, depending on temperature.
moderate spreader, 15' tall and hardy to 0 degrees.
the black bamboo prefers full sun and grows very  slowly in complete shade, almost like a clumper.
phnf ph. nigra "black bamboo" one of the  most popular bamboos, both for the black culms and the plumed masses of bright  green leaves.
chva chusquea valdiviensis the largest of the climbing  bamboos and the most robust of chilean bamboos, reaching heights of 80' by  clambering up trees and draping them with curtains of foliage.
full sun to part  shade.
a handsome, medium sized species  with dark green, shiney leaves and green culms.
bambusoides 'slender crookstem'(phbr) and ph. nigra 'daikokuchiku' 'giant black' (phnff) grow the largest in northern california.
this is a slow spreader, tolerant to salt air and cold hardy to -20 f. plant in full sun to part shade.
recommended: pleioblastus, semiarundinarias and phyllostachys(except as  noted below), sasella masamuneana albostriata, psuedosasa japonica "arrow  bamboo" and 'pleioblastoides,' and hibanobambusas.
does poorly in areas where summer temperatures go over 100 in the daytime and remain above 70 f. at night.
because it can  spread aggressively, it forms screens rapidly, and containment is recommended.
the roots may have dried out just once or are root-bound and not absorbing water well.
if there is too much water and the roots  are rotting, the leaves may look pale and droopy.
for example, clumpers spread wide more slowly, but grow tall faster, and  don’t require root barrier for containment.
not good in  desert climates.
for growth of roots and shoots, in ground plants only fertilizer 14-14-14 apex fertilizer 14-14-14 apex, 5 lbs.
shoots in the  spring.
winter chill eliminates scale and mealy  bugs, which commonly afflict them in warmer climates.
when grown in full sun its  leaves tend to curl.
here locally, it can reach 16' in height with 1.5" diameters.
this plant prefers cool daytime and nighttime temperatures, needs  plentiful water, and is extra sensitive to dry conditions - may drop leaves if  watering is missed.
hardy to -5 f. fam fargesia murieliae "umbrella bamboo" an  attractive clumping ornamental frequently used in european gardens, it is hardy  to -20 degrees, likes shade, and grows to 15' tall.
the species makes an excellent dense screen 20 to 25' tall with branches and leaves growing closely up the whole length of the culm.
especially useful in landscapes where the timber bamboo look is desired, but with less height, this plant gets 2" in diameter and 25' tall locally.
fargesia a genus of very hardy, small to medium-sized, clumping mountain bamboos  from the cool alpine conifer forests of west and southwest china.
if planting in the late summer, we recommend planting even the most cold-hardy bamboos at least 3 months before first frost (although planting season may be somewhat extended by using frost covers).
removal services are offered on a case-by-case basis when staff time is available.
shield plants from  extreme heat, cold, and sun when first planted.
not recommended : bambusas, fargesias, sasas, indocalamus, phyllostachys  nuda, semiarundinaria fastuosa.
acid fertilizers can also be added to compensate for extremely alkaline soils.
moso is difficult to establish and requires lots of water, acidity, tropical humidity and heat to reach its full potential.
f. phpt ph. heteroclada 'straight stem' "water bamboo" now considered to be the primary species, growing larger, up to 33' and 1 ½" in diameter and with less zig-zag than the two above.
nitida is is exceptionally cold resistant, withstanding -15  degrees, and is probably the most popular bamboo in northern europe.
leaf pattern seems to be more regular, and therefore even more  beautiful than the yua.
this was the case with phyllostachys bambusoides when it flowered during the 1970's, as it has done every 120 years through recorded bamboo history.
uncut, it usually grows 5' tall, but can reach 7'.
it's best to select bamboos that  will tolerate temperatures well below the lowest temperatures you've  experienced in perhaps the last 10 years in order to ensure healthy plants  long-term.
rhizome a type of rootstock consisting of a creeping stem,  usually growing horizontally underground.
makes  a nice ground cover if pruned annually.
removal methods: many people ask about using round-up or other  herbicides to kill bamboo.
almost any species can be used for effective screening, given that it will grow to the height you desire in the space that you can allow for it, and given that it is properly matched to your climate and planting area for cold hardiness and sun/shade.
brachystachyum a one species genus from china similar to semiarundinaria, which shoots in late spring.
many species require 3 years of growth before they begin to spread.
to search for plants by your criteria: click here to search  for plants by your criteria (such as height, cold-hardiness, sun/shade, clumper  or runner)
in colder areas, clumpers should be  mulched before wintertime.
not to be confused with 'richard haubrich'.
a subtly variegated form displaying green leaves covered with white pinstripes.
hcf himalayacalamus falconeri this plant is a cultivar of himalayacalamus falconeri 'damarapa.'
it forms attractive groves  up to 34' tall with culms 1 ¾" in diameter.
phdec ph. decora culms are green with subtle rusty  mottling.
this plant also makes a nice tropical-looking house plant.
bve bambusa ventricosa "buddha's belly" bright green culms sometimes develop characteristic internodal swelling when subject to high summer heat.
height: indoors, bamboos generally grow only a fraction  of their maximum height and diameter, so we recommend that you buy a plant  that is already as close as possible to the size you ultimately want.
hardcover: 553 pages publisher: o. hidalgo-lopez (january 2003)
cold hardy  to 22 f. chni chusquea sp.
falconeri 'damarapa' (formerly drepanostachum  hookerianum)"candy stripe" a highly decorative plant: gold  canes with multiple green stripes, becoming shades of pink, cranberry, and  purple with dark stripes in the spring and summer sun.
sakls sasa kurilensis 'simofuri' "fallen snow" a hardy bamboo from the kuril islands, the northernmost islands of  japan.
plhu pleioblastus humilis
plln pleioblastus linearis 'nana' a short version  (3-4' tall) of pll, with narrow leaves.
winter chill eliminates scale and mealy bugs, which commonly afflict them in warmer climates.
the green canes show off a wide yellow stripe in the sulcus,  creating alternating stripes of varying lengths up the cane.
environmental cleanup: bamboo plants are very effective at removing metals and other toxic substances from soils and water.
spout & pump: 18" three arm 18" three-arm spout produces a deep, rich sound from its wide water flow, with no splashing.
new shoots are unique in having light green sheaths with spiraling dark green stripes.
sbms sasaella masamuneana 'albostriata' also known as "sam bamboo."
also, it has three branches at each node instead of  just one.
for this reason, entryways or rooms with windows near the plants that can be kept partially open seem to work best.
pittieri may also do ok.
there are two main types of bamboo: noninvasive clumping bamboos (sympodial or pachymorph) have short roots and form discrete clumps.
reaches 15' to 20' tall.
thick mulch is recommended to protect the plants over the first winter regardless of when planted.
the circular space required may vary from 3 to 10 ft. in diameter, or more, depending on size of species.
with a certain amount of muscle power and the necessary tools, removal of bamboo is possible.
before selecting a species for your garden, always check the temperature, sun/shade ratings, height, and running/clumping type, and take into account your humidity levels.
(this does not kill larger pieces of root).
with the proper sun  exposure this makes an attractive container plant and is excellent for erosion  control or hedges.
grows up to  30' tall with 2" diameter culms in the climate of origin.
graceful foliage is arranged in attractive tiers,  creating a waterfall effect, or if topped, an umbrella-like shape.
most are from japan and are useful in the garden for ground cover, contrasting  texture and container plants.
a clumper hardy to 13 degrees, preferring half to-full day sun.
phnm ph. nigra 'megurochiku' grows and looks very  similar to 'henon'
we have  lots of deer here in northern california, specifically the western mule deer,  but have never had a problem with them.
some running bamboos behave as clumpers under certain circumstances, such as lack of exposure to sun or very cold winter temperatures.
hibanobambusa a probable hybrid of ph. nigra 'henon' and sasa veitchii f. tyugokensis from mt. hiba on honshu, japan.
when under- or over-watering is corrected quickly, the plant will often  re-leaf in a month or two and be healthy.
with a bamboo purchase of $100 or more, you can purchase barrier at a special discount price of $1.50/ft.
even large plantings of bamboo can be surrounded with a single length of plastic, requiring only one seam.
phvg ph. viridiglaucescens has powdery lime-colored  culms with a white node ring, providing excellent quality straight wood, often  used in furniture, and superior shoots for eating.
grows 40' tall and 3" in diameter.
then, simply snap them off at soil level by hand while they are small and tender.
fastest growing plant on the planet: new shoots of some tropical species have been clocked growing up to 4 feet per day in their shooting season!
colder temperatures experienced for several  nights may kill the tops or even whole canes, causing them to turn beige.
the species grows best in full sun and are successful in  almost any climate, including coastal environments and even desert areas, as  long as winter temperatures are not too cold.
similarly to bambusa ventricosa, culms sometimes develop characteristic internodal swelling when subject to high summer heat, but culm is yellow with multiple green stripes.
leaves are green with a  few bright yellow stripes.
it produces especially tasty shoots in tropical environments and is used throughout asia for construction.
not a great deal is known about this plant, as it is new to cultivation.
it is very important to read and apply all of the following guidelines if you want your bamboo houseplants to look healthy and beautiful for more than a few months.
good ground cover or bonsai.
we discuss below the various factors involved in selecting the plants that will best suit your needs and your location from the myriad of bamboos available.
the cold-hardiness rating generally represents the threshold for  root death.
its  temperature range is 10 to 100 degrees.
bamboos belong to the grass family, and their flowers look a lot like the flowers of other grasses, usually nothing spectacular, but quite varied.
for example, many of the bamboos like humidity and warmth, which makes them taller and larger in diameter; but aridity and/or cooler winters will prevent some plants from reaching their maximum size.
cut and cured canes become dark  yellow to beige with black and brown mottling, which make them exceptionally  beautiful for musical instruments, furniture and crafts.
reaches up to 27' tall, with dark green leaves 5/8" x 4".
building bamboo fences by isao yoshikawa
sand, volcanic cinders, and perlite are excellent stable inorganic components.
phah ph. arcana great bamboo for erosion control,  visual screening and edible shoots.
locally, in northern california, it grows about 20-30' tall and 1  ½" in diameter.
phan phyllostachys aurea 'holochrysa' "true gold" a cultivar of phaj with light gold culms and occasional thin, vertical green stripes.
frequently grows with a pronounced zig-zag at the base ('crookstem').
in about 1994-5, and assumed to be a variety of  pl. humilis, this plant has brightly striped leaves, 50-50 white and green.
not recommended: any plants not designated to be cold-hardy enough for your lowest nighttime winter temperatures.
our beautiful and unique demonstration gardens and expert advice enable you to select the best varieties for your needs.
similarly to bambusa ventricosa, culms sometimes develop  characteristic internodal swelling when subject to high summer heat, but culm  is yellow with multiple green stripes.
the  parts of canes which are dead will not produce new leaves and may be cut off.
mulching deeply in the cold season is also important, using 12 inches of wood shavings, leaves, or hay and then removing the mulch in the spring.
hchf himalayacalamus hookerianus 'falcatus' almost identical in appearance to 'blue bamboo', but more gray-blue and shorter, growing about 15' in the climate of origin.
bamboo  likes plenty of deep watering - soaking down to at least 8-12 inches - and also  good drainage.
chgi chusquea gigantea another chusquea new to the  u.s., growing about 25' tall and 1¾" inches in diameter with  exceptionally long branches at 3-4½ feet.
yua yushania anceps a very graceful mountain bamboo  from formosa and the philippines.
dig down 3-4 inches into the soil frequently to monitor moisture.
it is a  moderate runner, hardy to -10 degrees, in full to part sun.
if you are, nevertheless,  determined to use round up, remember that the poison is taken in through the  leaves only, and it must be applied in an undiluted form, which is sometimes  difficult to find.
the leaf edges actually die back to form a decorative, tan margin.
every other year we spread it about 4" deep in late fall to allow time for nitrogen conversion and use the rest of the year.
fastuosa "temple bamboo" also known as 'japanese temple bamboo' or "red temple bamboo."
new  growth during spring and summer restores the planting to a solid green  appearance.
hardy to -5  degrees.
”leaves are smokey green color.
indocalamus a genus of small asian running bamboos which shoot in spring and are  relatively hardy.
the aureosulcata  group is great for medium to large size hedges and specimen plants.
probably a form of phyllostachys  bambusoides, as they are nearly identical and can be used interchangeably.
for this reason, entryways or rooms with windows near the plants that  can be kept partially open seem to work best.
one of the most beautiful, graceful and tropical looking bamboos
however, if bamboo is theonly fodder for miles around theymight eat it, especially tender new plants, and in that case, deer fencing around your new bamboo plants is a good idea.
pld pleioblastus distichus a japanese dwarf with tiny, fern-like leaves arranged in even rows.
if surrounding your bamboo completely, add 4-5' to overlap the ends.
annual pruning of old and dead wood will also improve the appearance and health of the plant.
the otatea is hardy to only 20  degrees and may experience leaf drop and cane die-back at 18 degrees.
30" x 40 mil rhizome barrier (with $100 bamboo purchase) ($.20/foot will beadded to shipping cost for states east of the mississippi.)
it commonly grows up to 15' in japan, 8' tall in northern california, and only 3' in southern california.
yushania a genus of medium sized, clumping mountain bamboos from asia.
grows 35' tall on 2"  culms.
for much of the year nothing much appears to be happening, and then in one brief season they explode with growth.
with the interests of the environment in mind, below you will find our  approaches to insect problems, with the most environmentally friendly listed  first:
, the sulcata has golden yellow  culms with dark green widened nodes and very thin, feathery green leaves,  4-5" in length, on a whorl of short branches surrounding each node.
new shoot sheaths are almost black, but drop off as the culms grow,  revealing nearly white new culms, which darken only slightly with age.
also, it has three branches at each node instead of just one.
phnff ph. nigra 'daikokuchiku' "giant black" similar to above black bamboo, except that this clone has reached 57' tall and 3.3" in diameter, possibly the greatest height of any bamboo in northern california.
they tend to have large diameter for their height.
a 3' tall, running  dwarf with white striped leaves.
it is also hardier, going down to -5 degrees.
it grows 6' tall, is hardy to 0 degrees, and prefers shade.
fan fargesia nitida (seedling) formerly known as sinarundinaria nitida.
root-bound plants may be placed in a large saucer of water for a half-hour or so to soak up water from the bottom.
plar pleioblastus argenteostriatus a 3' tall, running dwarf with white striped leaves.
outstandingly beautiful  foliage and craftsman quality wood.
chmi chusquea mimosa 'australis' a new introduction  from southern brazil, this is a very interesting and delicate looking plant.
west coast this region has many highly varied microclimates, and thus can sustain a multitude of bamboo species.
overwinters well without pruning.
most have extremely large, wide, tropical-looking leaves and  tolerate low light levels.
plfo pleioblastus fortunei "dwarf white-stripe" 'dwarf white-stripe'(aka arundinaria variegata)
installation of misters to mist the  foliage daily is an optional but useful aid to help plants get established,  look their best and grow ultimately taller.
plgr pleioblastus gramineus a medium-sized,  attractive, grassy-looking bamboo which grows to 12' and has long, dark green,  lustrous leaves.
therefore,  inspect any new bamboo you import into your garden.
it grows 6' tall, is hardy  to 0 degrees, and prefers shade.
they tend to have  large diameter for their height.
as temperatures become cool again, canes revert to partly green, and then are  darker red the following summer.
hardy to 5  degrees and does best with only half day sun.
not recommended: all semiarundinarias, phyllostachys nuda, and all ph.  nigras (except ph. nigra 'henon'), which need cold winters and cooler summer  nights to do well.
the tops arch gracefully with masses of small leaves, reaching up to 80' tall with culms 8" in diameter in the climate of origin.
arching, soft green culms with  occasional white stripes grow to 40' and 3" in diameter.
reaching 50' tall and 5" diameter.
forms a very tight column of elegant, blue powdered, 1 1/2 - 2" blue-green canes, shaded by well foliated, arching tops.
best when pruned down and allowed to re-grow fresh new leaves in early spring.
good for erosion control and tolerates ocean environments with  salt air.
they tolerate colder temperatures than  other bambusas, being hardy to 13 degrees f. or more, and do well in most  northern california climate zones.
the species makes an  excellent dense screen 20 to 25' tall with branches and leaves growing closely  up the whole length of the culm.
it's also best to keep plants in cooler locations and away from heaters.
because it can spread aggressively, it forms screens rapidly, and containment is recommended.
good for covering corners or for a short screen or hedge.
bamboo plant selection purpose: in all its varied forms, the uses for bamboo are  endless: striking, stand-alone specimen plants, a low variegated border,  groundcover, accent plants in pots on a deck or patio, an interesting entryway,  an asian look for japanese gardens, etc.
clumping bamboos have a very short root structure, are genetically incapable of expanding more than few inches a year, and will generally form discrete circular clumps.
plants in this climate will need  frequent watering, probably daily in summer.
hardy to -10 degrees and a  vigorous runner.
it grows up to 50' tall and takes temperatures down to -5 degrees.
we know of no way to prevent this.
this is a dwarf bamboo, growing to about 10' under conifers in china and reaching about 6' in northern california.
plcm pleioblastus chino 'murakamianus' a beautiful variegated form with 3 leaf colors: some solid white, some green, but mostly white leaves with green stripes (average proportion is ¼ green to ¾ white).
phau ph. aureosulcata 'lama temple' a bright yellow cultivar of phas with occasional thin, vertical, green stripes around the cane (no sulcus stripe).
spring is the best planting season, allowing the whole growing season to  get established before the next winter.
clumping and running bamboos
chsu chusquea sulcata (seedlings)
culms range from pale green to turquoise color, and branches are often reddish.
makes an  excellent screen up to 15'’ in height.
classification of these bamboos has been problematic.
all forms share the moniker "hedge bamboo," taking well to pruning and shaping.
plck pleioblastus chino 'kimmei' this decorative bamboo has attractive green leaves with occasional golden stripes.
may be pruned or mowed to maintain even, dense growth.
similar to cbq,  but canes are gold with thin green stripes, and the new shoots are occasionally  pink.
also, because indoor  environments are usually less than ideal, rotating your plants outdoors in mild  conditions is often a wise practice for their long-term health.
on a large property where invasion of neighboring land or other parts of a garden are not issues, one may simply let the rhizomes go where they wish and remove new cane shoots by breaking them off if they emerge in any areas where canes are not desired.
distinguishing characteristic is the short, knobby, bulging internodes at the base of its culms, adding interest.
scale looks like little, flat cones  on branches and leaves, and are light colored when young, growing darker and  more visible with age.
has some systemic action, which makes it more effective with mites.
the tender shoots of larger species may also be harvested for food when just breaking ground.
chmu chusquea muelleri
refreshes itself within 5 weeks.
it contains germanium, which reverses the aging process in cells.
good container plant.
both forms of the plant are aggressive runners  with single branches and wide leaves up to 10" long and 1½"  wide.
cold hardy to -10  degrees and can grow close to full height even with those temperatures in  winter.
a few plants may also suffer from summer heat, such as fargesias and some chusqueas, which do not tolerate hot summer nights (over 70 f.).
the diameters below refer to the wider end.
tolerates temperatures down to only 28 degrees and likes  half to a full day of sun.
american bamboos reference guide to the 47 genera of bamboos of the western hemisphere, generously illustrated with color photos.
special orders are welcome, and we deliver within the greater bay area.
1 ½" in diameter and with less zig-zag than the two above.
gelidocalamus a genus of small to medium sized, running bamboos botanically similar to indocalamus and chimonobambusa.
removal methods: many people ask about using round-up or other herbicides to kill bamboo.
likes full sun in temperate  climates, but half to full-day of shade in very hot climates.
the shooting period varies from species to species and genus to genus.
hot and dry climates may choose from recommendations made for the southwest or high desert, colder mountain climates from the northern recommendations, etc.
the culms will produce reddish color when grown in certain  conditions: leaves must be stripped from the lower 2/3 of the culms, and the  culms must be exposed to warm morning sun.
(certain other  families of bamboo can grow here but are much more vulnerable to leaf tip burn:  phyllostachys, dendrocalamus, fargesias and some chusqueas, such as ch.
you will need to keep a close eye on your bamboo for a while to determine how much and how often to water in your particular microclimate, soil type and season.
"arrow bamboo" known as "arrow bamboo" for its historic use, this bamboo produces thin, strong, and straight green culms which retain the light brown culm sheaths for about 6 months.
a 4' dwarf with dark green leaves.
recommended: pleioblastus, semiarundinarias and phyllostachys(except as noted below), sasella masamuneana albostriata, psuedosasa japonica "arrow bamboo" and 'pleioblastoides,' and hibanobambusas.
west coast this region has many highly varied microclimates, and thus can sustain a  multitude of bamboo species.
phnh ph. nigra 'hale' this type of black bamboo shows  its color sooner than any other with new shoots that are mostly black when they  break ground and turning completely black in 3-6 months.
a runner that spreads very slowly, it  will do ok down to 0 degrees and likes half to full day sun.
stronger than steel: bamboo has a tensile strength of 28,000 per square inch, vs. 23,000 for steel.
new shoots come up green and gradually turn light yellow regardless of sun exposure.
shoots year 'round, growing up to 15' tall in the original environment and 12' to 20' in california.
the tiny root fragments will thus be deprived of nourishment from above and will die off.
to read one-paragraph descriptions of many of our plants and also access photos, please seespecies descriptions.
in many other california locations it more typically grows to about 50' in height.
mealy bugs appear usually in branch joints as little spots of "white cotton" which seem not to move at all.
while highly ornamental and mostly tolerant of  acid soil, many have little heat tolerance and are difficult to establish.
when under- or over-watering is corrected quickly, the plant will often re-leaf in a month or two and be healthy.
looks well and retains its colors through the winter if well watered in summer, but can be pruned down and refreshed in spring if desired.
it is  also hardier, going down to -5 degrees.
hardy to  10 f and tolerant of salt air.
cold hardy to 18 degrees.
the young plant has a rather open look, however.
psj pseudosasa japonica
there arecanes with colors, stripes, large/small diameters,  exposed or covered with foliage.
oaaz otatea acuminata aztecorum "mexican weeping" a beautiful, drought resistant, clumping ornamental from the chaparral  of mexico.
phyllostachys a genus of medium to giant runners with a distinct groove (sulcus) on the  culm above paired branches.
great as  medium size screen or container plant.
indosasa isc indosasa crassifolia makes a great isolated clump  or hedge.
(certain other families of bamboo can grow here but are much more vulnerable to leaf tip burn: phyllostachys, dendrocalamus, fargesias and some chusqueas, such as ch.
not recommended for southeastern states in the us where nighttime summer temperatures remain above 70 f. the fargesias are generally shade plants, but may tolerate more sun in the s.f. bay area when getting ample daily water.
less defined ways to contain runners are: 3) water only the area in which the plants are wanted and nowhere else within 10 to 20 feet (in climates that have several dry months).
these plants shoot in the spring and fall.
surface of new culms have a sandalwood scent when rubbed in the warm sun.
excellent for fast-growing, dense screens and hedges.
the ants themselves do  not harm the bamboo.
reaches 20' tall with 1' diameter culms in the climate of  origin.
this plant also makes a nice  tropical-looking house plant.
in addition, clumpers may be shaped and prevented from putting pressure on any surrounding structures (such as a fence or sidewalk) by removing new shoots at soil level when they begin to encroach more closely on those structures.
troubleshooting: yellowing leaves usually indicate  either too little or too much water.
full sun to part shade.
this  plant grows up to 72' tall and 6" in diameter in its native climate.
it is a vigorous runner with dark green leaves and tasty shoots.
a climbing bamboo with  attractive bluish leaves and trailing canes which may reach 1" in  diameter, 40' in length, and 10' in height, depending on surrounding foliage,  or a large arbor or trellis for support.
© bamboo sourcery, 2004 definitions culm a stem which is hollow except at the nodes, as are the  bamboo canes.
cold hardy to 20 f. most attractive as an isolated clump.
maximum height (near prattsville, alabama) is 45' and 3" in diameter, while in northern california it usually grows 25-30'.
tends  to look a little shabby in winter.
bte bambusa textilis 'weaver's bamboo' a stately, upright giant timber clumper which grows 20 to 30' tall in northern california and taller in the south.
mature plants look like tall clumps of giant feathers.
language: english isbn-10:
phg ph. glauca grows in china to 70' tall and 5"  in diameter, while locally in northern california it grows 40' tall and 2  ½" in diameter.
shiny canes are teal green in cool, overcast winter weather, gradually becoming rust as weather warms in spring, and then cranberry in mid-summer in 1/2 to a full-day of sun.
it also tolerates up to full day sun, and grows only to  12 feet tall with ½" diameter culms.
culms arch  in upper part and many thin branches half encircle each node.
be sure to check that  the temperature rating for the species is appropriate for your area.
bol bambusa oldhamii "giant timber" a giant  timber clumper growing 55' tall and 4" in diameter in southern california  and 20' to 30' up north.
refreshes itself  within 5 weeks.
with ground plantings, a deep soaking less frequently is best, rather than a shallow watering every day.
experience has shown that this plant can take full sun, making it an excellent  ground cover.
hardy to 5 degrees and does best with only half day sun.
how-to-book, showcasing 20 traditional japanese bamboo fence styles in color photographs and detailed instructional diagrams, illustrating bamboo working techniques, ties and knots, and joinery.
exceptionally hardy to  wind, drought & aridity.
for a  more thorough discussion of the advantages and disadvantages and how to choose  the best type for your situation, see the sectionclumping and running bamboos.
in the case of bamboo, the rhizomes  are woody and segmented just like the culms.
medium size lime-green leaves grow on  darker green canes, which turn burgundy color in direct sun.
they enhance and transform gardens into peaceful sanctuaries of light, movement and space, touching our spirits and stirring our souls.
unlike most  fargesias, this species can handle a full day of sun in n. cal, which will  produce lighter green, shiney leaves.
be sure  to check that the temperature rating for the species is appropriate for your  area.
shoots in late spring.
phyllostachys a genus of medium to giant runners with a distinct groove (sulcus) on the culm above paired branches.
phps ph. heteroclada 'solid stem' this variety has light green culm sheaths with a white edge which are retained, creating a pattern on the culm.
this is a plant for many uses, such as hedging, erosion control, crafts and fencing.
wood is of high quality and shoots are tasty.
in addition, the numerous seeds may be planted and will reproduce the mother plant identically or produce new and interesting variations.
the size and appearance of any particular bamboo variety may vary significantly depending upon climate and conditions.
if you live within a 2-hour drive of sebastopol, ca and have a significant amount of a species we can use, we may be able to come, during the appropriate digging seasons for your particular plant, and remove your bamboo.
it was introduced to the usa in 1986, and not much is known about it.
it is hardy to 0 degrees and shoots in the spring.
the dense foliage is green with thin golden stripes.
hardy to 10 degrees or -10 degrees if  heavily mulched.
the hazards of bamboo cultivation are often overstated.
those listed below are vigorous  runners.
grows 15' tall, 1" in diameter.
cbm chimonobambusa marmorea "red" also known  as "marbled" bamboo” because its new shoots are marbled with  cream and purple.
falconeri 'damarapa' (formerly drepanostachum hookerianum)"candy stripe" a highly decorative plant: gold canes with multiple green stripes, becoming shades of pink, cranberry, and purple with dark stripes in the spring and summer sun.
hardy to 10f. formerly known as arundinaria amabiis bambusa a genus of tropical and subtropical clumping bamboos from asia, america and africa that shoot all year 'round, especially summer and fall.
however, if bamboo is theonly fodder for miles around theymight eat it, especially tender new plants,  and in that case, deer fencing around your new bamboo plants is a good idea.
can tolerate temperatures down to only 15 degrees, and likes a half-day of sun.
its leaves are wide, short, and  horizontally arranged.
dense light green foliage covers the  plant from top to bottom.
phvj ph. viridis 'houzeau' very similar to ph. viridis 'robert young' with reverse coloring: culms are green with a single yellow stripe in the sulcus.
drs drepanostachyum sengteeanum
other possible pests - bamboo in the west is a deer-proof plant.
returns to same height if roots have been well-mulched.
hot and dry climates may choose from  recommendations made for the southwest or high desert, colder mountain climates  from the northern recommendations, etc.
plhi pleioblastus hindsii 'yasui' a new introduction  from japan with distinctive, stiffly upright leaves and a handsome upright  form.
grows  to 18' tall, is cold hardy to 0 degrees, and resistant to salt air.
a spectacular variegated form of tootsik that has white leaves with  green stripes and darker, olive green culms.
for more information about "runners vs clumpers: choosing the best type for your needs," please see clumping and running bamboos.
fastuosa  means tall and stately, and it lives up to its name.
widely arching canes with small, delicate branches and leaves create a lacey fountain shape.
shk shibataea kumasaca
the rigid membrane which forms the partition within the nodes, adding strength to the cane.
one nice feature is that bamboo in the  west is a deer-proof plant!
does not do well in summer heat, especially where nights do not cool down below 70 f. flowered in 1994 in northern california.
insects: mites, aphids, mealy bugs, scale, & ants: it is much  easier to keep mites out of your bamboo than it is to get rid of them once they  have established themselves, and they can become a serious problem.
running bamboos fill in the spaces between the original plants the fastest, and even with 3' ft. spacing some screening can be achieved within 2-3 years with smaller size pots.
nutrition for humans and animals: bamboo shoots have been eaten throughout asia for centuries, and branches and leaves make good fodder for animals.
all plants will look  somewhat better if in a little shade some part of the day.
fadr fargesia dracocephala 'rufa' this versatile and popular new form of fargesia is more sun and heat tolerant.
has light green leaves,  ½" x 3-5", which grow in small clusters at each node.
sun needs are listed on the price lists.
bve bambusa ventricosa "buddha's belly" bright green culms sometimes develop characteristic internodal swelling when  subject to high summer heat.
it grows up to 35' tall and 2" in diameter in the climate of origin and about 25' tall in the sf bay area.
tends to look a little shabby in winter.
it commonly grows up to 15' in japan, 8'  tall in northern california, and only 3' in southern california.
also, because indoor environments are usually less than ideal, rotating your plants outdoors in mild conditions is often a wise practice for their long-term health.
2) installing high-density polyethylene plastic rhizome barrier, 40-60 mil thick and 22-34 inches deep, vertically around the perimeter of the area in which the bamboo is to be contained.
to purchase plants, please see our plant price list, which also contains photo access and specific details about each plant.
btu bambusa tuldoides also known as "punting pole  bamboo" from its asian heritage of poling boats.
this plant prefers cool daytime and nighttime temperatures, needs plentiful water, and is extra sensitive to dry conditions - may drop leaves if watering is missed.
our bamboo price list is always accessible on our website and is also available by mail upon request.
grows to about 20' tall and 1 ¼" in diameter.
plant in sun or shade.
fascinating facts about bamboo helps reverse global warming: incredible and true, bamboo produces the most oxygen of all the plants!
bamboos grown indoors are more vulnerable to insect pests and disease , as they are generally more stressed than they would be outdoors.
medium size lime-green leaves grow on darker green canes, which turn burgundy color in direct sun.
not for desert  environments.
with the adjustable base, the spouts can be raised or lowered to the perfect fit.
bamboos do not develop their full cold-hardiness until well established, and planting in spring gives the plant a longer growing season to get established and develop its cold-hardiness before the next cold season.
the most common and popular  bamboo in much of the u.s, it is easy to grow, drought resistant, and great for  screens and hedges, as well as containers.
(please  also seepossible pests).
returns  to same height if roots have been well-mulched.
however, if the roots survive, they will produce new shoots (culms) in spring or summer.
mealy bugs and scale are less of a problem in areas which  receive hard frosts in winter.
it shares some characteristics of both phyllostachys and pleioblastus.
good in pots or in the ground as a  hedge.
in some situations it is easiest to wait and see if there is going to be a problem before implementing containment measures.
fargesia a genus of very hardy, small to medium-sized, clumping mountain bamboos from the cool alpine conifer forests of west and southwest china.
unfortunately, this often occurs due to inadequate  or inaccurate information available to consumers regarding the types of bamboo  and effective containment methods.
requires excellent drainage and tops will die in temperatures colder than 20 degrees for more than 10 days.
they will also need frequent watering in this climate, probably daily in summer.
indosasa isc indosasa crassifolia makes a great isolated clump or hedge.
four of the characteristics listed below are also listed with each species on our price list.
all bamboos in this region are best planted in spring, to maximize growing season.
because there is no bamboo native to the west coast  and the deer did not co-evolve with it, they will not eat bamboo unless it is  the only fodder for miles around.
insects: mites, aphids, mealy bugs, scale, & ants: it is much easier to keep mites out of your bamboo than it is to get rid of them once they have established themselves, and they can become a serious problem.
they usually have one branch per node and they shoot in the spring.
mulching deeply in the cold season is also important, using 12  inches of wood shavings, leaves, or hay and then removing the mulch in the  spring.
bashania a genus of two species of running bamboos from china which shoots in early spring.
will die back at 20 degrees, but if mulched grows  back to same height in one season.
plants have been fertilized at the nursery, and additional fertilizer at this point could shock the plant.
possible bamboo pests bamboo doesn't have many pests, but the pests they do have can be unsightly, if not a serious problem, unless some simple steps are taken.
a new introduction from mexico, this is a small, deeply weeping, trailing bamboo, with dense foliage.
often mites and aphids can  be found together, and the treatment for both is the same.
himalayacalamus a genus from nepal to the north-eastern most part of india at elevations of 2,250 to 2,750 m. shoots in the spring.
it can be maintained at 24" height as a ground cover  through annual pruning, but can grow to 6' without pruning.
hcc himalayacalamus cupreus this new introduction is a  tight clumper with foliage and growth habit similar to h. falconeri  'damarapa',’ with less arching at the top.
it remains  much shorter in less ideal circumstances (including california).
phr ph. rubromarginata another exceptionally cold tolerant species withstanding -15 degrees.
if the canes are not damaged, new leaves will bud out  again when the weather warms up.
grows 6' tall, hardy to 0
with a bamboo purchase of $100 or more, you can purchase barrier at a special discount price of $2.75/ft.
after filling in around the plant, pack the soil firmly to eliminate air bubbles and soak thoroughly.
runner with shiny green culms that are  occasionally zig-zagged at the base.
recommended: bambusas, chusqueas, dendrocalamus, drepanostachyums,  himalayacalamus, and all phyllostachys, including ph. nigra 'henon,' except  those noted below.
this plant loves full sun and hot temperatures but may also be planted in light shade.
graceful, arching green culms with delicate palmate foliage resemble a large, lacey japanese maple.
before flowering in the 60's and 70's, it was the predominate bamboo cultivated in japan.
grows to 6' and is hardy to -20 degrees.
chusquea this genus comes from central and south america where there are about 90  species.
a quick grower, 15-20' tall, hardy to 0 degrees, it likes half to  full day sun.
one of the most beautiful and colorful chusqueas, with dark blue-green nodes on  lime-green to yellow culms.
note: when planting along a fenceline, if there is sufficient space it is advisable to leave an 18-24 inch corridor between the fence and the bamboo barrier to allow a space for maintenance along the back side of the planting area.
when grown in part  shade, the culms bend over with the weight of numerous, closely spaced leaves.
height in relation to climate is somewhat predictable for  most of the species, so if in doubt, check with us about height for a species  in your climate.
prefers semi-shade and shoots in the spring.
grows up to 15' tall with culms 3/4" in diameter.
consider all of the advantages and disadvantages of clumpers and runners for  you.
clusters of small, light  grayish-green pointed leaves.
'nigricans' may be a dwarf form of  culeou.
phc ph. atrovaginata (congesta) "incense bam."
phi ph. iridescens beautiful dark green leaves and  culms and is useful as a visual screen and wind break.
pharr ph. aureosulcata 'harbin' this cultivar has yellow culms with multiple green grooves running the length of each internode, with no sulcus stripe.
the diversity of species is perhaps not too surprising when one considers the many environments in which they have evolved.
delivery cost is based on distance.
also fargesias, himalayacalamus hookerianus "blue  bamboo," chusquea circinata, and ch. sulcata will not do well in areas  where the temperatures exceed 100 f. and summer nights are above 70 f. south east (hot, humid summers, some winter frost and down to 10 f.  in some areas)
grows 8'-12' tall and can tolerate down to 10 degrees.
this aggressive runner grows to 25' and 1½" in diameter.
soil: we recommend a lightpotting mix, consisting of 1/3 soil, 1/3 peat moss, and 1/3 perlite in order provide excellent drainage and enable the soil to aerate and dry out more quickly after watering, to prevent root rot.
out 5" diam x 12' yellow poles (tonkin cane) 53.75sold out 6" diam x 8' yellow poles (tonkin cane) $57.00sold out 6" diam x 12' yellow poles (tonkin cane) $93.00sold out fountains adjustable spout & pump: 12" attractive and practical design with an adjustable base.
these insects all produce a sticky secretion that can be eaten by ants, and sometimes a black sooty mold grows on it as well.
yuc yushania chungii similar to yuanp, but foliage is  dark green and dense from top to bottom.
© bamboo sourcery, 2012 site map
not recommended: bambusa multiplex 'silverstripe,' b. vulgaris vittata,  chusquea circinata and sulcata, fargesias, sasas, himalayacalamus hookerianus  "blue bamboo," indocalamus, semiarundinaria fastuosa, and  phyllostachys nuda.
if  the above are not sufficiently effective and you have a large area of infested  bamboo, you might consider the following more toxic substances: malathion: kills pretty much all insects.
like most homes, in his house the bamboo was hidden beneath plaster, and indeed, it looked like it was made of brick.
looks best in full sun, which turns the canes reddish in the fall, but will grow in 1/2-day afternoon sun.
2-sided tape for sealing barrier 2-sided tape with polyethylene glue for sealing barrier, 10 ft. roll poles bamboo poleswe do not ship poles.
sinobambusa a genus of tropical running chinese bamboos similar to semiarundinaria  except the culm sheaths promptly fall off.
bamboo plant selection purpose: in all its varied forms, the uses for bamboo are endless: striking, stand-alone specimen plants, a low variegated border, groundcover, accent plants in pots on a deck or patio, an interesting entryway, an asian look for japanese gardens, etc.
for best results, mow in late winter or early spring.
cold hardy to -5 degrees.
phbr ph. bambusoides 'slender crookstem' this form of bambusoides often grows with marked zig-zags or s-curves in the lower part of the culm, which is quite striking on such large canes.
in  many other california locations it more typically grows to about 50' in height.
it's also best to keep plants in  cooler locations and away from heaters.
if you are keeping your plants in containers, or unable to  transplant for a while, make sure the water is running out of the bottom of the  pot each time you water.
the  young culms have a distinctive white powder creating a blue-green tone.
height in relation to climate is somewhat predictable for most of the species, so if in doubt, check with us about height for a species in your climate.
it sports gold stripes on green leaves as well as occasional white stripe on the green canes.
probably a form of phyllostachys bambusoides, as they are nearly identical and can be used interchangeably.
it also tolerates up to full day sun, and grows only to 12 feet tall with ½" diameter culms.
clumping bamboos take more time to fill in, but are ultimately extremely  dense.
temperature: cold-hardiness, the lowest temperature tolerated by the root system of each species for 2-3 nights at a time, is listed on our price lists for each plant.
forms a very tight column of elegant, blue powdered, 1  1/2 - 2" blue-green canes, shaded by well foliated, arching tops.
all stock is container-established and ready for planting.
clumpers with clumpers, it is not necessary or effective to surround the plant with a plastic root barrier.
new to the u.s. from india, this clumping bamboo is similar to yushania anceps, but its shoots and culms have dark red hair.
not recommended: chusquea circinata and ch. sulcata, fargesias,  himalayacalamus hookerianus "blue bamboo," phyllostachys nuda, and  semiarundinarias will not do well in areas where the temperatures exceed 100 f.  and summer nights are above 70 f. south west (low desert, with hot, dry summers and very light or no  frost in winter)
hbts hibanobambusa tranquilans 'shiroshima' quite  striking for its brightly variegated leaves, which are white and yellow with  vivid green stripes and about 1 ½"” x 8-10"” in  size.
tools for removing bamboo: a shovel, hatchet, ax, pick, strong maddox, and a long, strong pry bar are the most common tools used for removing bamboo.
a 4' dwarf with dark green  leaves.
provides safe housing: over 1 billion people in the world live in bamboo houses.
grows  to 23' tall and 1" in diameter in the climate of origin and 15-18' tall in  the sf bay area, but can be pruned to any height.
great as medium size screen or container plant.
leaves are smokey green color.
through the first year, make sure the plant remains moist but not waterlogged.
cold hardy to 0 f. psjt pseudosasa japonica 'tsutsumiana' also known as  "scallion bamboo."
shooting is in the  spring.
the culms will produce reddish color when grown in certain conditions: leaves must be stripped from the lower 2/3 of the culms, and the culms must be exposed to warm morning sun.
hbt hibanobambusa tranquilans similar to hbts, but this is the all green form.
in fall, plant at least 3 months before  first frost.
by far the most popular use of bamboo, however, is as fast-growing privacy screens and evergreen hedges.
vigorous, attractive plant.
(other "ultra-fine" oils can also be used).
fertilizer 6-20-20 fertilizer 6-20-20, 5 lbs.
pseudosasa this asian genus consists of small to medium sized, running bamboos with  usually one and never more than three branches per node.
if you wish, you can force any root fragments to shoot by watering the area for awhile.
installation of misters to mist the foliage daily is an optional but useful aid to help plants get established, look their best and grow ultimately taller.
with the interests of the environment in mind, below you will find our approaches to insect problems, with the most environmentally friendly listed first: other possible pests - bamboo in the west is a deer-proof plant.
needs acid soil to look its best.
himalayacalamus a genus from nepal to the north-eastern most part of india at elevations of  2,250 to 2,750 m. shoots in the spring.
to learn more about the types of bamboo and  containment methods for bamboo, please see the section titledclumping and  running bamboos.
look desired: there is an amazing variety in bamboos to  choose from.
plce pleioblastus chino 'elegantissimus' forms attractive, mounded, 6' plants with curved, green leaves with subtle cream stripes.
hardy bamboos, taming the dragon by paul whittaker a distillation of 20 years of hands-on growing experience, this is the ultimate bamboo reference book for cool-climate gardeners.
culms are rough to the touch with large nodes, and  grow in an upright form.
to make  the job easier, water the area deeply a few days before digging.
hardy to 20 degrees f, grows 12' tall locally.
requires excellent drainage and tops  will die in temperatures colder than 20 degrees for more than 10 days.
and it consumes more carbon dioxide than any other plant!
often the addition of compost or other additives is beneficial (see section below).
brf borinda fungosa (frmrly fargesia fungosa) "chocolate bamboo" ornamental weeping bamboo that can be used as a screen or centerpiece.
in general, bamboo does not like salt laden air and is  prone to leaf tip burn.
high desert (hot, dry summers, cool nights, cold winters)
humidity may also be provided by placing a small fountain or humidifier nearby.
the cane also develop a showy, reddish color with sun exposure.
hardy to -10 degrees and more if heavily mulched.
here locally, it  can reach 16' in height with 1.5" diameters.
unique to this bamboo is the extremely variable internode length  and occasional bulging internodes, giving the canes a knobby look.
plce pleioblastus chino 'elegantissimus' forms  attractive, mounded, 6' plants with curved, green leaves with subtle cream  stripes.
promising genetic research and international cooperation should help clarify the situation.
contents may be accessed through the menu at the left.
30" x 60 mil plastic rhizome barrier 30" wide x 60 mil.
shield plants from extreme heat, cold, and sun when first planted.
shoot new culm which has just broken ground, arising from a rhizome underground, completely covered with sheaths, and poised to demonstrate bamboo's reputation for phenomenally rapid growth.
this is a very popular garden form with attractive gold culms with multiple green stripes.
the usual height here in n. california is between 10' and 15' with 2" diameter culms, but it can reach 16' in its native environment.
we also carry bamboo root barriers, fertilizer, fencing, poles, garden accessories and books.
if you also place a layer of gravel in the  bottom of your pot (which must have holes for drainage, of course), you can  place the pot in a saucer of water.
if further advice or clarification is needed, please call bamboo sourcery.
phao ph. aurea 'koi' a cultivar of phaj with a soft green stripe in the sulcus on light yellow culms and occasional white stripes on the leaves.
good ground or container plant which is  hardy to 0 degrees and likes indirect light all day, to half-day morning sun.
slow  spreading and shallow rhizomes are easy to control with a shovel.
in bright light to  filtered sun it may grow to 7' tall.
the rigid membrane which forms the partition  within the nodes, adding strength to the cane.
spreading rhizomes require moisture and grow primarily during the warm summer months when most of the western states are dry.
tolerates a wide range of light exposure.
am sun is cooler, but pm sun may be harsher, and is especially harsh in dry climates.
grows 25' tall with  1.5" diameter culms in the climate of origin, and approximately 15' tall  in the sf bay area.
a climbing bamboo with attractive bluish leaves and trailing canes which may reach 1" in diameter, 40' in length, and 10' in height, depending on surrounding foliage, or a large arbor or trellis for support.
good ground or container plant which is hardy to 0 degrees and likes indirect light all day, to half-day morning sun.
daily misting is recommended to compensate for the lower humidity of most interiors, especially while winter heating is in use.
yuanp yushania anceps 'pitt white' possibly the same as yua, but this clone is a seedling of a plant which grew 32' tall at pitt white, england.
may be  pruned or mowed to maintain even, dense growth.
it is found in china at  elevations of 10,000 feet, where it is an important food for the giant pandas.
while highly ornamental and mostly tolerant of acid soil, many have little heat tolerance and are difficult to establish.
very thin  culms have slightly widened nodes and medium size green leaves, 5" x  ¾".
slow release for potted plants.
use two cups per 64 sq. ft. (8 oz per 8' x 8' area), applied every 6 weeks.
because there is no bamboo native to the west coast and the deer did not co-evolve with it, they will not eat bamboo unless it is the only fodder for miles around.
if your soil is deficient, the extra time and expense of improving it is usually well worth the effort.
in full sun the culms turn  scarlet.
similar to  ph. aurea in its rapid growth, hardiness, versatility and resilience.
the safest methods for containing running bamboos are: 1)
(we do not recommend "drip" systems, as they do not emit a large enough volume of water and do not cover an area widely).
a choice ornamental, it grows to 12 feet tall with slender arching branches, forming a fountain shape.
looks best in shade with no direct sun; but will tolerate am sun.
running or clumping type: listed on the price lists.
prefers a half-day of sun, but may grow in full sun.
myriads of small leaves form lovely patterns on blue-green culms.
(we do not recommend  "drip" systems, as they do not emit a large enough volume of water  and do not cover an area widely).
when we dig a large area of a giant timber species, we also use a  carbide-tipped chain saw and a special heavy duty chopping bar.
it is distinctive in that its culms turn somewhat reddish when receiving full sun on the culm itself, but otherwise both culms and leaves are dark green.
culms are light green with a white node ring, turning  more yellow if exposed to direct sun.
it requires very good drainage, but tolerates salt air, alkalinity, and clay soils.
however, if your climate has hot, humid, long summers and stays well within  the plant's cold tolerance, and if the plant is located in an appropriate  amount of sun or shade and will have year-round water, you can generally expect  the maximum height.
timber press pocket guide to bamboos by ted jordan meredith packed with all the authority of an encyclopedia in a pocket-size format, this book is a perfect reference for taking to the nursery, or if you are a landscaper it is great for sharing quick visuals with your clients.
in colder areas, clumpers should be mulched before wintertime.
we typically recommend using the 30" barrier for most plants in the phyllostachys genus.
(we tend not to use zone systems,  since there are so many different systems).
plsi pleioblastus simonii with dense green foliage,  this is an excellent choice for screens and hedges in very cold winter  locations or near the ocean.
psu pseudosasa usawai imported from taiwan in 1981,  where it grows to 15' tall and ¾" in diameter, this plant takes  part to full sun and is hardy to at least 10 degrees.
if mites are found, immediately separate the plants from other bamboos in your garden and clean thoroughly with a high-powered hose.
bxd brachystachyum densiflorum (sometimes classified  as arundinaria densiflora or bashania densiflora).
in the spring, new shoots growing up through the clump are initially black, turning more burgundy color as they gain height.
grows up to 31'  tall with 2¾" diameter culms in the climate of origin, but is  typically half that tall in the sf bay area, where it is usually grown as a  short, arching hedge.
phan phyllostachys aurea 'holochrysa' "true gold" a cultivar of phaj with light gold culms and occasional thin, vertical  green stripes.
the dense root system can exert strong pressure on structures in contact with it, and thus clumpers should be planted at some distance from fences, sidewalks, retaining walls, etc.
removal of bamboo while we at bamboo sourcery are bamboo lovers, we recognize that  occasionally there arises the need or desire to reduce or remove entirely a  clump or a stand of bamboo.
bvek bambusa ventricosa 'holochrysa kimmei' very ornamental plant.
half-day of morning sun produces a deep yellow color and requires plenty of watering.
so be forewarned, you may shortly find yourself becoming ensnared with bamboo magic!
can be planted any time of year.
it is one of the few bamboos which can grow  in very wet soils, as well in typical garden conditions.
the large sized three-arm fountain kit creates a statement that will enhance any garden scene.
widely arching canes with small, delicate branches and leaves create a lacey  fountain shape.
vast quantities of stakes are still imported for the nursery trade.
fertilizer fertilizer 16-6-8 fertilizer 16-6-8, 5 lbs.
culms are light green with a white node ring, turning more yellow if exposed to direct sun.
a 15' tall plumed bush  with hanging leaves.
(we tend not to use zone systems, since there are so many different systems).
surface  of new culms have a sandalwood scent when rubbed in the warm sun.
plants in this climate will need frequent watering, probably daily in summer.
the symptoms of mites are small, regular, bleached-looking spots on the leaves.
new shoots are excellent for eating .
makes a nice ground cover if pruned annually.
grows to 20' tall with 1½" in diameter in the climate of origin, 15' tall with ¾" diameter here locally.
seyki semiarundinaria yashadake 'kimmei inversa' also  similar to seyk, but culms are light green with a yellow stripe, with culms  receiving direct sun turning blackish with a red stripe.
hardy to 13  degrees.
bambusoides holochrysa 'all gold' decorative  orangey beige culm with a few thin green stripes, and green leaves with cream  to gold stripes.
this may take a number of years, depending on the size and age of the original planting, the species, and the growing conditions.
hardy to 10 degrees, preferring half to full day of sun.
removal of bamboo while we at bamboo sourcery are bamboo lovers, we recognize that occasionally there arises the need or desire to reduce or remove entirely a clump or a stand of bamboo.
cbq chimonobambusa quadrangularis "square" unique in several ways, this plant has culms whose opposite sides are flat, forming a rounded square.
958334298x isbn-13: 978-9583342981 rhizome barrier 24" x 40 mil plastic rhizome barrier - 24" wide x 40 mil.
when we dig a large area of a giant timber species, we also use a carbide-tipped chain saw and a special heavy duty chopping bar.
good as a hedge or  ground cover.
has edible shoots of outstanding flavor.
does not do well in southern states with  very hot summers.
a beautiful erect specimen  or hedge plant.
in the fall, be sure to plant at least 3 months before your first frost.
this plant loves full sun and hot temperatures but may also be planted  in light shade.
height & diameter: maximum height and diameter reached  by each species in theclimate of origin is listed in the price list.
retentive white sheathes leaves form an interesting pattern with triangles of dark green culm showing through.
plha pleioblastus humilis 'albovariegatus' introduced  to this country by gerald bol
if the leaves are drooping downward, your bamboo might be getting too  much water and/or not enough drainage.
a new introduction from mexico,  this is a small, deeply weeping, trailing bamboo, with dense foliage.
sapn sasa palmata 'nebulosa' valued by many for its large leaved, tropical appearance.
grows 6' to 8' tall and ¼" to ½" in diameter.
similar to the above, except it is lower growing and develops interesting, bulging internodes and only grows 10' tall.
drk drepanostachyum khasianum very similar to hch but  with blue-green culms.
new to the u.s. from india, this clumping bamboo is similar to  yushania anceps, but its shoots and culms have dark red hair.
a runner which grows to 6'  tall, has swollen nodes, and is hardy to at least 5 degrees.
cold  hardy to 18 degrees.
in mild climate areas such as coastal california, it doesnt make as much difference, except for the least cold hardy clumpers, for which spring is still the best.
if there is too much water and the roots are rotting, the leaves may look pale and droopy.
cbq chimonobambusa quadrangularis "square" unique in several ways, this plant has culms whose opposite sides are flat,  forming a rounded square.
clumpers cannot adjust their circular shape to a long, narrow space, and height of culms may be limited if too small a space is allowed for the roots.
inlo indocalamus longiauritus has attractive, dark green leaves on upright, solid culms.
small closely spaced bluish-green culms and delicate foliage create a deeply arching, umbrella-like form.
has noteworthy drought resistance and grows well under a wide range of conditions.
tolerates a wide range of light  exposure.
temperature: cold-hardiness, the lowest temperature  tolerated by the root system of each species for 2-3 nights at a time, is  listed on our price lists for each plant.
in the fall, be sure to plant at  least 3 months before your first frost.
plar pleioblastus argenteostriatus
"arrow bamboo" known as "arrow bamboo" for its historic use, this bamboo produces  thin, strong, and straight green culms which retain the light brown culm  sheaths for about 6 months.
for exceptionally tall growth, two applications per year may be used (early spring and late fall).
during the summer and fall, most species manufacture and store sugars in their rhizomes.
it is  characterized by the grainy quality of the culm surface which can be felt by  running the edge of your thumbnail up and down the culm surface.
inlo indocalamus longiauritus has attractive, dark  green leaves on upright, solid culms.
may be dropped or retained  as shoot matures.
its always a good idea to consult with your local nurseryman about how best to amend your local soils.
chci chusquea circinata beautiful tropical bamboo from chiapas, mexico, with long narrow leaves, ¼" x 3 ½".
he was sold on bamboo.
bamboo indoors bamboos can sometimes be successfully and beautifully grown indoors, but  only if you have a very green thumb and can give them adequate light, humidity,  moving fresh air, and attentive observation and care.
recommended: bambusas, otateas, phyllostachys and semiarundinarias (exceptions noted below), hibanobambusa, pseudosasa japonica "arrow bamboo" and "pleioblastoides," and most pleioblastus species.
somewhat less cold temperatures may cause only leaf burn and the  loss of some leaves.
hardy  to 20 degrees.
likes shade and moisture, grows 3' to 5' tall, and is hardy to -10 degrees.
regional recommendations we provide these suggestions to help you make your selections; however, no guarantee of success is implied.
bamboos will more readily establish themselves when weather is milder and rain is more likely.
its temperature range is 10 to 100 degrees.
regular overhead watering will reduce the amount of leaf drop during the transition, help your bamboo get established quickly, and increase its growth rate and ultimate height in dry climates.
psjp pseudosasa japonica 'pleioblastoides' similar to the basic species, this japonica is drought, wind, and salt tolerant.
psjp pseudosasa japonica 'pleioblastoides' similar to  the basic species, this japonica is drought, wind, and salt tolerant.
as an open clumper, culms are erect with some distance from each other, but the tops of this plant are deeply weeping.
good for containers and great for erosion control.
hardy to 0 degrees and salt  tolerant.
chimonobambusa a genus of medium sized bamboos from the himalayas, china and japan, which  shoot fall and winter, and are difficult to propagate.
in the coldest regions mature heights will be lower.
gelidocalamus hibanobambusa himalayacalamus indocalamus indosasa otatea phyllostachys pleioblastus pseudosasa sasa sasaella semiarundinaria shibataea sinobambusa thamnocalamus yushania arundinaria a genus of medium sized, hardy, running bamboos with 3-6 branches at each node, persistent culm sheaths, and no sulcus.
sasaella a genus of running bamboos similar to sasa except with straight culms and smaller leaves.
therefore, inspect any new bamboo you import into your garden.
early spring after danger of frost is past is the best time to plant, in order to allow them to get established before the extreme heat arrives, and it's good to shelter plants from extreme heat, cold, or sun when first planted.
hardy to -10 degrees.
f. phpt ph. heteroclada 'straight stem' "water bamboo" now considered to be the primary species, growing larger, up to 33' and
and some features appear only in certain conditions and may  not yet be present when you receive the plant.
culms range from pale green to turquoise color, and  branches are often reddish.
psu pseudosasa usawai imported from taiwan in 1981, where it grows to 15' tall and ¾" in diameter, this plant takes part to full sun and is hardy to at least 10 degrees.
lime green culms with dark green nodes are tall and upright with weeping branches and delicate green foliage, also resembling giant, arching feathers.
it is slower growing.
the  vivax, along with ph.
best growth with good indirect light.
phg ph. glauca grows in china to 70' tall and 5" in diameter, while locally in northern california it grows 40' tall and 2 ½" in diameter.
dense light green foliage covers the plant from top to bottom.
we do not recommend it.
the species grow about 15' tall, are cold hardy to -5 degrees, and and  make good container plants and screens.
tar thamnocalamus aristatus attractive lacey bamboo  from the himalayas.
cbtum chimonobambusa tumidissinoda "walking stick" a rare chinese bamboo noted for its widened culm nodes, like two closed cymbals.
also, when planting onvery steep slopes or planting very large giant timber runners in soft, sandy soil, it may be necessary to use a 36" deep root barrier.
it commonly grows 3-6' tall and is hardy to -10 degrees.
p. nuda gets its name from its ability to become deciduous with extreme cold.
size alone is greatly affected by location, temperature, nutrition, water, and sun exposure.
good house or garden plant.
this  is a dwarf bamboo, growing to about 10' under conifers in china and reaching  about 6' in northern california.
they should be watered in small  amounts, deeply enough that roots are kept moist (a little water should run out  the bottom), but not so much that the soil stays soggy for days.
the soil you use should both drain well and retain moisture.
grows 35' tall on 2" culms.
culms are thick walled  and straight, making them useful for many purposes.
it grows to 12' tall and 1 ½" in diameter and is good as a screen or hedge.
it is very  important to read and apply all of the following guidelines if you want your  bamboo houseplants to look healthy and beautiful for more than a few months.
born in a bamboo house in chinchina, colombia, bamboo construction was common in his state, where many residential and public buildings were constructed using this cheap and widely available material.
phbas ph. bambusoides 'aureostriata' this unique plant was brought from japan years ago by gerald bol.
the gardener's guide to growing temperate bamboos by michael bell sold outan excellent, concisely written reference book for the gardener, including 58 pages of species descriptions and color photos.
gyokucho folding saw / all purpose 250mm 10" planter boxes 2'w x 2'l x 18"d redwood planter box 2' wide x 2' long x 18" deep, lined with rhizome barrier for longevity 2'w x 3'l x 18"d redwood planter box 2' wide x 3' long x 18" deep, lined with rhizome barrier for longevity 2'w x 4'l x 18"d redwood planter box 2' wide x 4' long x 18" deep, lined with rhizome barrier for longevity gift certificates gift certificates we will pay the taxes on any gift certificate purchased by christmas!
it requires very good drainage, but  tolerates salt air, alkalinity, and clay soils.
if this occurs, often the plant will grow new leaves which are more acclimated to the indoor conditions.
but with the addition of a brown or purplish-black stripe in the grooves on the culms.
f. sanag sasa nagimontana (muroi) creates discrete clumps about 6' tall with semi-dark green leaves and culms.
recommended: bambusas, otateas, phyllostachys and semiarundinarias  (exceptions noted below), hibanobambusa, pseudosasa japonica "arrow  bamboo" and "pleioblastoides," and most pleioblastus species.
new shoot sheaths are almost black, but drop off as the culms grow, revealing nearly white new culms, which darken only slightly with age.
again, always make sure your temperatures, sun exposure, sun-shade, and humidity are appropriate for any particular species you may choose.
grows to 18' tall, is cold hardy to 0 degrees, and resistant to salt air.
potting mixes if you plan to grow your bamboo in containers, make sure to use a good potting mix.
too little water may cause  leaves to have brown tips, curl up, look dry and yellow, and begin to drop.
grows 40' tall and  3" in diameter.
hcc himalayacalamus cupreus this new introduction is a tight clumper with foliage and growth habit similar to h. falconeri 'damarapa', with less arching at the top.
phar ph. aureosulcata 'alata' a dark green form of aureosulcata with frequent zig-zag in the canes and no stripe in the sulcus.
the culms are dark green, developing burgundy tones when exposed to sunlight.
hardy to 0 degrees and likes good  indirect light to half day direct sunlight.
grows 16' tall with  1" diameter culms.
it is one of the few bamboos which can grow in very wet soils, as well in typical garden conditions.
sbma sasaella masamuneana ground cover bamboo with dark green foliage that grows to 14" in the shade and 4' in full sun.
a clumping type, but…this is one of a handful  of bamboos that grow new culms from the nodes of existing culms as well as from  the root.
208 pages bamboo - the gift of the gods architect oscar hidalgo has dedicated his life to bamboo research, and teaching the world about the limitless possibilities of this remarkable plant.
traditionally, botanists describe species on the basis of their flowers.
chcw chusquea culeou (6-11) 'chilean weeping' new to  the u.s. and another very striking chusquea resembling chcq.
chcw chusquea culeou (6-11) 'chilean weeping' new to the u.s. and another very striking chusquea resembling chcq.
does not do well in southern states with very hot summers.
if you  wish, you can force any root fragments to shoot by watering the area for  awhile.
also many phyllostachys, with bissetii, nuda, rubromarginata being among the most cold-hardy; pleioblastus, particularly simonii and simonii 'heterophyllus'; many semiarundinarias and sasas.
mid-summer planting can sometimes be accomplished by using shade cloth to protect from intense sun.
five days before the opening ceremony, there was a hurricane which distorted the building extremely, moving the kingpost 90 cm off-center.
as temperatures become cool again, canes revert to partly green, and then are darker red the following summer.
almost any species  can be used for effective screening, given that it will grow to the height you  desire in the space that you can allow for it, and given that it is properly  matched to your climate and planting area for cold hardiness and sun/shade.
, the sulcata has golden yellow culms with dark green widened nodes and very thin, feathery green leaves, 4-5" in length, on a whorl of short branches surrounding each node.
yuc yushania chungii similar to yuanp, but foliage is dark green and dense from top to bottom.
most come from china.
multiple  short branches grow from each node, and culms reach 15' tall and 1" in  diameter in the climate of origin.
phar ph. aureosulcata 'alata' a dark green form of  aureosulcata with frequent zig-zag in the canes and no stripe in the sulcus.
before flowering in the 60's and 70's, it was the predominate bamboo cultivated  in japan.
has a feathery weeping look early in life.
phf ph. flexuosa named for the distinct zig-zag pattern shown by some of the culms.
the mites themselves are silvery grey and so small  it is hard to see them without a magnifying glass.
in cold climates, they may be grown herbaciously by mulching heavily during the winter, and will survive an additional 10 to 20 degrees colder than listed and produce new top growth in the spring.
psat pseudosasa amabilis "tonkin cane" formerly known as arundinaria amabilis known for the very high quality of its wood.
will die back at 20 degrees, but if mulched grows back to same height in one season.
in humid, warm climates it can grow 55' tall and 2  ¼" in diameter.
tolerates alkalinity.
similar to ph. aurea in its rapid growth, hardiness, versatility and resilience.
small plants should be partially shaded.
soil: we recommend a light”potting mix, consisting of 1/3 soil, 1/3 peat moss, and 1/3 perlite in order provide  excellent drainage and enable the soil to aerate and dry out more quickly after  watering, to prevent root rot.
phau ph. aureosulcata 'lama temple' a bright yellow  cultivar of phas with occasional thin, vertical, green stripes around the cane  (no sulcus stripe).
tolerates temperatures down to only 28 degrees and likes half to a full day of sun.
all variegated forms of the above genera  and dwarf forms of pleioblastus should also be grown in shade only.
after he left the university, oscar was intrigued by the possibilities of using bamboo in construction, and embarked on a project to construct a country club kiosk 23 meters in diameter using this material.
usually 8 to 10' tall with ½" culms in northern california; 20' with 1/2" culms in climate of origin.
in humid, warm climates it can grow 55' tall and 2 ¼" in diameter.
in general, bamboo does not like salt laden air and is prone to leaf tip burn.
it is likely that you will miss a few root fragments here and there, and over the next few seasons you may see an occasional shoot coming up.
most have extremely large, wide, tropical-looking leaves and tolerate low light levels.
chci chusquea circinata beautiful tropical bamboo from  chiapas, mexico, with long narrow leaves, ¼" x 3 ½".
hardy to 0 degrees and does well in  half-day morning sun to full sun.
this plant has an airy look, a  delightful specimen plant but too open for screening.
it may also be advantageous to add a small proportion of loam or clay for micro-nutrients.
to search for plants by your criteria: click here to search for plants by your criteria (such as height, cold-hardiness, sun/shade, clumper or runner)
grows to 15' tall with 1" diameter canes in brazil and is cold hardy to 20 degrees.
hcp himalayacalamus porcatus a very upright, tight  clumper with light green leaves and misty green canes covered with a white  powder.
(if you want to remove super large chunks at one time, you can dig deeply around the circumference of a chunk, tie a strong rope or chain around it, and pull it out with a truck or tractor!)
leaves are usually small and narrow, and most are clumpers with gracefully arching or trailing culms and branches.
plgr pleioblastus gramineus a medium-sized, attractive, grassy-looking bamboo which grows to 12' and has long, dark green, lustrous leaves.
an outstanding,  attractive dwarf variegated bamboo.
hardy to 0 degrees and does best with half to full  day sun.
removal services: we are sometimes able to offer bamboo removal  services.
grows up to 15'  tall with culms 3/4" in diameter.
ornamental bamboos a gardener's guide to nearly 200 ornamental bamboos, based on the author's experience in a cool-temperature climate in hampshire, england, where his nursery holds the national collection of bamboos for the u.k. emphasis is on the unique qualities of bamboo, uses for bamboo, and plants recommended for specific landscaping purposes.
makes a very effective canopy; best in a large scale environment.
if you are, nevertheless, determined to use round up, remember that the poison is taken in through the leaves only, and it must be applied in an undiluted form, which is sometimes difficult to find.
a runner that spreads very slowly, it will do ok down to 0 degrees and likes half to full day sun.
recommended: almost anything will grow in this area if minimum temperature rating of species is appropriate.
the most common and popular bamboo in much of the u.s, it is easy to grow, drought resistant, and great for screens and hedges, as well as containers.
attractive on a large scale with trees or a large  trellis for support.
look desired: there is an amazing variety in bamboos to choose from.
phr ph. rubromarginata another exceptionally cold  tolerant species withstanding -15 degrees.
since bamboo is one of the fastest  growing plants on the planet, bamboo screens and hedges can be created more  quickly and inexpensively, compared to other plants or trees.
geg gelidocalamus (arun) fangianus a new introduction  from west sichuan china, where it is a primary food for the giant panda.
in cold winter climates the best planting time is in the spring when likelihood of frost is past and when the ground can be worked.
half-day of morning or afternoon sun.
borinda a recently created genus of clumpers and "open clumpers" from the  mountainous regions of asia, composed of several species that had been  previously assigned to other genera, such as fargesia, yushania, arundinaria,  thamnocalamus, and himalayacalamus.
hardy to -5 degrees and likes  morning sun, afternoon shade.
24" x 40 mil rhizome barrier (with $100 bamboo purchase) ($.20/foot will beadded to shipping cost for states east of the mississippi.)
it is found in china at elevations of 10,000 feet, where it is an important food for the giant pandas.
point-of-sale purchases only.
this is a decorative bamboo similar to inlo, but has smaller,  narrower leaves, 1" x 5".
leaves are up to 1 ¼" wide by 7" long.
phas ph. aureosulcata 'spectabilis' a very attractive recent introduction with a green sulcus on bright yellow culms, turning cranberry red where sun strikes the cane in summer.
fertilizer: for container-grown bamboos, we like the slow-release fertilizers supplemented with trace minerals.
runners are recommended for: please see containment of bamboo for a complete explanation of methods of containment.
the vivax, along with ph.
drainage may also be improved by mounding the soil or ditching around the planting.
drk drepanostachyum khasianum very similar to hch but with blue-green culms.
1" diam x 6' yellow poles (tonkin cane) $5.00 1" diam x 6' black poles (leopard bamboo) $7.50 1" diam x 8' yellow poles (tonkin cane) $6.00 1" diam x 12' yellow poles (tonkin cane) $7.50 1" diam x 12' black poles (leopard bamboo) $9.50 1.5" diam x 8' yellow poles (tonkin cane) $15.00 1.5" diam x 12' yellow poles (tonkin cane) $20.00 1.5" diam x 12' black poles (leopard bamboo) $22.25 2" diam x 8' yellow poles (tonkin cane) $14.25 2" diam x 12' yellow poles (tonkin cane) $22.00 3" diam x 12' black poles (tonkin cane) $41.50 sold out 3" diam x 8' yelow poles (tonkin cane) $29.00 3" diam x 12' yellow poles (tonkin cane) $41.50sold out 4" diam x 8' yellow poles (tonkin cane) $35.25 4" diam x 12' yellow poles (tonkin cane) 48.25sold
below are our recommended methods for removing bamboo.
cbmv chimonobambusa marmorea 'variegata' same as cbm, except leaves are occasionally striped with narrow white lines.
as the plant gets older, it becomes more upright and dense.
this is the "known reference point."
plln pleioblastus linearis 'nana' a short version (3-4' tall) of pll, with narrow leaves.
good as a hedge or ground cover.
the usual height here in n. california is between 10' and 15' with 2"  diameter culms, but it can reach 16' in its native environment.
in shade, yushania, some himalayacalamus, and other  drepanostachyums may be grown as well.
it may reach 50' with 5" diameter culms in n.  california, and lends a strong, vertical, structural quality to any landscape.
culms and leaves are dark green and arching at the very top.
long known for its large, olive green culms, vertical and clumping growth habit, and tasty shoots.
not a great deal is known  about this plant, as it is new to cultivation.
does poorly in areas where summer  temperatures go over 100 in the daytime and remain above 70 f. at night.
root-bound plants may be placed in a large  saucer of water for a half-hour or so to soak up water from the bottom.
canes are fairly unremarkable and are largely hidden by the leaves in the  mature plant.
attractive dark green leaves, an inch or so wide by 6-8" long, grace 15-20' silver/gray culms.
the black bamboo prefers full sun and grows very slowly in complete shade, almost like a clumper.
this  plant may reach heights of 15-20' in ideal conditions with warm, relatively dry  winters, but in areas with more frost and occasional temperatures in the teens,  it may maintain heights of only 5'-12'.
a water-filled stream or ditch can also effectively contain the spread of bamboo, since rhizomes and roots cannot tolerate extended periods of saturation.
most bamboos suffer root damage if submerged in water for several weeks.
this genus comes from central and south america where there are about 90 species.
a tight clumper with slender, bright green culms which bend under the weight of abundant, small narrow leaves, creating a delicate, graceful look.
culms grow to 1 ½" in diameter.
foroverly acidic soils with ph of 5.5 or lower, add lime to reduce acidity to a ph of 6.0 - 7.0.clay soils may be improved to provide better drainage with the addition of sand and organic materials.
with a bamboo purchase of $100 or more, you can purchase barrier at a special discount price of $2.00/ft.
this bamboo is similar to borinda boliana with blue-green powdery canes, but an open clumper with larger blue green leaves.
not recommended : bambusas, fargesias, sasas, indocalamus, phyllostachys nuda, semiarundinaria fastuosa.
shooting season is variable.
good for erosion control, hardy to -10 degrees, plant in part shade.
also, mites live in grass, so make an effort to keep grasses away from the base of your bamboo.
bamboo shoots are a delicacy in chinese cuisine.
seo semiarundinaria okuboi previously known as  semiarundinaria villosa.
chmi chusquea mimosa 'australis' a new introduction from southern brazil, this is a very interesting and delicate looking plant.
best when pruned down and allowed to  re-grow fresh new leaves in early spring.
if the soil is dry at 4 inches, water is not getting to  the roots adequately.
phah ph. arcana great bamboo for erosion control, visual screening and edible shoots.
most are from japan and are useful in the garden for ground cover, contrasting texture and container plants.
culms are very straight with slight arching at top.
high nitrogen for green leaves, for in ground plants only.
then the culm sheaths fall, revealing light green smooth canes with slightly enlarged nodes.
shibataea a genus of small, non-aggressive, running bamboos from china and japan with  3 to 5 short branches per node and wide, short leaves.
pham ph. aurea 'flavescens-inversa' a very striking cultivar of phaj.
shoot new culm which has just broken ground, arising from a  rhizome underground, completely covered with sheaths, and poised to demonstrate  bamboo's reputation for phenomenally rapid growth.
bamboo sourcery offers an extensive variety of bamboo plants in many sizes, ranging from the shippable 1 gal and 5 gal sizes to magnificent giant timber specimens 30 to 40 feet tall in large tubs.
very thin culms have slightly widened nodes and medium size green leaves, 5" x ¾".
brachystachyum a one species genus from china similar to semiarundinaria, which shoots in  late spring.
many branches per node.
pld pleioblastus distichus a japanese dwarf with tiny,  fern-like leaves arranged in even rows.
planted in total shade it forms an attractive 3' tall mounded ground cover.
not recommended: chusquea circinata and ch. sulcata, fargesias, himalayacalamus hookerianus "blue bamboo," phyllostachys nuda, and semiarundinarias will not do well in areas where the temperatures exceed 100 f. and summer nights are above 70 f. south west (low desert, with hot, dry summers and very light or no frost in winter)
bamboo building essentials building bamboo essentials : the eleven basic principles by: darrel deboer and megan groth bamboo for gardens by ted jordan meredith excellent reference book describing over 300 bamboos and their requirements, with 140 pages of species and photos, some from bamboo sourcery.
scheduling is sometimes unpredictable, so flexibility in scheduling is very helpful.
under ideal conditions it can grow to 55' tall and 2 ¼" in diameter.
this is a slow spreader,  tolerant to salt air and cold hardy to -20 f. plant in full sun to part shade.
will grow in bright indirect light to half-day sun.
leaves can reach 15" in length and 4" in width.
the species grows best in areas with hot, humid summers, where it reaches heights of 50' and 2 ½" in diameter.
daily  misting is recommended to compensate for the lower humidity of most interiors,  especially while winter heating is in use.
looks best in part shade where leaves grow dark green; leaves exposed to bright sun are more yellow.
chva chusquea valdiviensis the largest of the climbing bamboos and the most robust of chilean bamboos, reaching heights of 80' by clambering up trees and draping them with curtains of foliage.
hardy  to -5 degrees.
bamboo is extremely strong, however cracks can and do appear lengthwise with age and dryness.
and some features appear only in certain conditions and may not yet be present when you receive the plant.
leaves are green with a few bright yellow stripes.
to read one-paragraph descriptions of many of our plants and also  access photos, please seespecies descriptions.
hardy  to 10f. formerly known as arundinaria amabiis bambusa a genus of tropical and subtropical clumping bamboos from asia, america and  africa that shoot all year 'round, especially summer and fall.
it is an outstandingly beautiful ornamental.
with a little knowledge and proper materials, running bamboos and open clumpers can be effectively contained.
it can be maintained at 24" height as a ground cover through annual pruning, but can grow to 6' without pruning.
the most effective method of removal of bamboo is to dig out the entire  root and rhizome mass as thoroughly as possible, including fragments.
we also occasionally remove unwanted bamboo free of charge upon request, if we have time and have a use for it.
excellent tolerance for both drought and alkalinity.
the leaves of some species grow only half an inch long, while others reach a couple of feet.
spout & pump: 12" three arm 12" three-arm spout produces a deep, rich sound from its wide water flow, with no splashing.
pittieri, sulcata, circinata, foliosa, and the culeous).
keep in mind, also, that young plants may not immediately show colors and variegation when you receive them, but these features will become more prominent after the first year or two.
there are also a few species of clumpers which have slightly longer roots (6-18"), and we refer to these asopen clumpers.
oct-feb: apex fertilizer, 6-24-24.
bamboo in containers year-round, indoors or outdoors: apex or osmocote fertilizer, 14-14-14 or 16-16-16, four to six month slow-release.
new shoots  are excellent for eating .
this plant prefers morning sun and afternoon shade, and it spreads slowly in shade, almost like a clumper.
hcf himalayacalamus falconeri this plant is a cultivar  of himalayacalamus falconeri 'damarapa.'
bambusas usually  have round culms with numerous branches at each node, although one or two  usually predominate.
it has nearly solid culms and is otherwise similar to the form above.
please check the sun/shade ratings listed under "indoor  plant selection" (or on our price lists for other plants that interest  you).
bdoss bambusa dolichomerithalla 'silver stripe' upright culms of this tight clumper are dark green with silver-white striping  on long internodes, making it a beautiful accent clump.
smaller than the typical  form, it grows 40-65' tall and 3-5" in diameter in its native environment,  and still is one of the tallest growing bamboos in northern california,
in the case of bamboo, the rhizomes are woody and segmented just like the culms.
excellent tolerance  for summer heat, winter cold, and drought.
clumpers make excellent specimen plants and will also form very dense screens, but more slowly than runners.
these plants  generally have thin canes with small leaves.
clumping bamboos take more time to fill in, but are ultimately extremely dense.
masses of bright green leaves form on multiple short branches.
prefers part shade but can take full sun in cool summer areas.
leaves are  usually small and narrow, and most are clumpers with gracefully arching or  trailing culms and branches.
takes the reader from planting through harvest and marketing of poles and shoots, in fine detail.
after the first few months, you can usually depend on a spray emitter irrigation system, using 2 to 4 high volume emitters per plant.
running bamboos (monopodial or leptomorph) are the ones that spread through the growth of long, horizontal roots, called rhizomes.
fast growing giant bamboo with tasty shoots.
hibanobambusa a probable hybrid of ph. nigra 'henon' and sasa veitchii f. tyugokensis  from mt. hiba on honshu, japan.
tts thamnocalamus tessellatus also known as berg bamboo in south africa, where it is the only native.
many species have beautifully variegated culms (stems) and leaves.
hardy to 0 degrees and does best with half to full day sun.
in shade, it grows a lighter green and  more openly.
the best time to plant varies from area to area and species to species.
sand has the virtue of being cheap, while cinders and perlite not only promote good drainage but also hold water.
makes interesting subject for bonsai.
it forms attractive groves up to 34' tall with culms 1 ¾" in diameter.
excellent tolerance for both  drought and alkalinity.
some plants may freeze back in winter, but if mulched deeply will shoot  up again in the spring.
formerly, several pleioblastus and yushania were listed as arundinaria.
plants will leaf out again within a month or two.
pll pleioblastus linearis forms a 15' tall plumed bush with hanging leaves.
also, mites live in grass, so make an effort to keep grasses away  from the base of your bamboo.
unfortunately, this often occurs due to inadequate or inaccurate information available to consumers regarding the types of bamboo and effective containment methods.
they usually get no taller than 6', have one  branch at each node, and look best grown in some shade.
grows  to 6' and is hardy to -20 degrees.
excellent for screening.
in humid, warm climates it can grow 55'  tall and 2 ¼" in diameter.
by the time the basket has rusted away, your bamboo is usually  large and well established, and gophers cannot do enough damage to seriously  harm your bamboo.
tolerates a little more sun and more shade, but height  and diameter are the same as the damarapa.
some plants may freeze back in winter, but if mulched deeply will shoot up again in the spring.
long known for its large, olive green culms, vertical  and clumping growth habit, and tasty shoots.
grows to 6' tall and handles both sun and shade.
they will also need frequent  watering in this climate, probably daily in summer.
it is  good for hedges up to about 8' in height in n. cal, though it grows to 18' in  the climate of origin.
makes a very effective canopy; best in  a large scale environment.
serving homeowners, landscape professionals, and the discriminating collector.
the mites themselves are silvery grey and so small it is hard to see them without a magnifying glass.
especially useful in landscapes where the timber bamboo look is desired,  but with less height, this plant gets 2" in diameter and 25' tall locally.
can tolerate temperatures down to  only 15 degrees, and likes a half-day of sun.
makes interesting texture under trees.
how and when to plant
leaves may be striped and variegated, yellow or white with green, long and thin, large and wide, or very small.
leaves are long and narrow, 10" x 3/4".
do not fertilize for the first 6 months.
phao ph. aurea 'koi' a cultivar of phaj with a soft  green stripe in the sulcus on light yellow culms and occasional white stripes  on the leaves.
phhp ph. heterocycla 'pubescens' (china) "moso" the largest growing species of the genus and considered by many to be the most beautiful, moso is the most cultivated bamboo in china and japan.
exceptionally hardy, withstanding temperatures to -15  degrees.
good for covering  corners or for a short screen or hedge.
bamboo indoors bamboos can sometimes be successfully and beautifully grown indoors, but only if you have a very green thumb and can give them adequate light, humidity, moving fresh air, and attentive observation and care.
the many dwarf species, often variegated, make good ground covers, hedges, and container specimens, which benefit from an annual winter clipping to keep them low, uniform, and attractive.
baf bashania fargesii (sometimes classified as  arundinaria fargesii).
thus, each year's crop of shoots is larger than the last, until the mature size for the species is reached and new culms continue to come up at the mature size.
drepanostachyum sengteeanum, borinda boliana, chusquea nigricans, and ch. pittieri may also do ok.
it's best to plant in mild fall weather to give plants time to get established before hot summer temperatures and take advantage of winter rains.
if you have access to such tools, they will save you time and effort.
grows to 12' tall and is a clumper.
the clumps slowly enlarge as new culms emerge every year, but may ultimately need to expand to anywhere from a 3 to 10 ft. diameter (or more, especially for taller types) in order to reach their mature height, depending on species.
the vivax reaches 50' and 5" in diameter.
sheaths are dropped quickly as the solid, dark green culms grow about 20' tall and 1 ¼" diameter in the climate of origin.
arching, soft green culms with occasional white stripes grow to 40' and 3" in diameter.
if you have  access to such tools, they will save you time and effort.
the species  grows best in areas with hot, humid summers, where it reaches heights of 50'  and 2 ½" in diameter.
unlike most fargesias, this species can handle a full day of sun in n. cal, which will produce lighter green, shiney leaves.
culms get darker, sometimes almost black, in winter.
since bamboo is one of the fastest growing plants on the planet, bamboo screens and hedges can be created more quickly and inexpensively, compared to other plants or trees.
viridistriatus "dwarf greenstripe" has very attractive bright yellow leaves with sharp green stripes.
bambusoides holochrysa 'all gold' decorative orangey beige culm with a few thin green stripes, and green leaves with cream to gold stripes.
niem oil: organic insecticide which kills mites, aphids, mealy bugs, white  flies, and other insects.
shiny canes are  teal green in cool, overcast winter weather, gradually becoming rust as weather  warms in spring, and then cranberry in mid-summer in 1/2 to a full-day of sun.
for example, clumpers spread wide more slowly, but grow tall faster, and dont require root barrier for containment.
it is one of the few areas that phyllostachys heterocycla pubescens 'moso' grows well.
drepanostachyum a genus of beautiful, medium sized, clumping, himalayan bamboos.
place the plant at approximately the same soil level as it is in the pot, in a hole somewhat larger than the pot.
if you have bamboo that you would like us to remove, give us a phone call to  initiate the conversation.
almost identical to ph. vivax.
may be dropped or retained as shoot matures.
leaves are olive green.
plvsc pleioblastus viridistriatus 'chrysophyllus' similar to plvs but some leaves are green and some yellow with touches of green, but have no stripes.
phf ph. flexuosa named for the distinct zig-zag  pattern shown by some of the culms.
new shoots come up green and gradually turn light yellow  regardless of sun exposure.
this  exceptionally cold tolerant bamboo withstands -10 degrees.
shoots year 'round, growing up  to 15' tall in the original environment and 12' to 20' in california.
hardy to 0 degrees and salt tolerant.
the contrast between light-colored leaves and dark canes is quite striking.
then, simply snap them off at soil level by hand while they are small  and tender.
phng ph. nigra 'bory' "leopard bamboo" a  large relative of black bamboo, which, instead of turning black, develops large  decorative brown/black spots on 3" diameter green culms.
during manure application years, additional chemical fertilizers are unnecessary.
© bamboo sourcery, 2004 definitions culm a stem which is hollow except at the nodes, as are the bamboo canes.
and see ourprice list for the many available clumping bamboos (designated by the code "c"), open clumpers ("o"), and running bamboos ("r") that we offer.
new seedlings available now.
scale looks like little, flat cones on branches and leaves, and are light colored when young, growing darker and more visible with age.
they grow 20' tall at high elevations in southern chile and will  thrive between 0 and 90 f. chcum chusquea cumingii
cbqs chimonobambusa quadrangularis 'suow' highly ornamental bamboo from china which is also good for screening .
phbas ph. bambusoides 'aureostriata' this unique plant  was brought from japan years ago by gerald bol.
the  tops arch gracefully with masses of small leaves, reaching up to 80' tall with  culms 8" in diameter in the climate of origin.
plvsc pleioblastus viridistriatus 'chrysophyllus' similar to plvs but some leaves are green and some yellow with touches of  green, but have no stripes.
since the rhizomes generally grow quite shallow, usually within the top 12 inches of soil, roots may also be curbed annually by cutting with a shovel and pulling them out while still young.
this can be very effective against mites and other insects, and will  not harm the leaves.
cold-hardiness can be extended considerably by putting a very deep mulch over the bamboos in the fall.
sheath an enclosing "leaf" which protects the young shoots, culms, and sometimes branches as well.
cutting off new shoots coming up wherever theyre not wanted complements and completes this method.
inla indocalamus latifolius has leaves 2" wide by 1' long with a somewhat stiff and spiky appearance.
phhu ph. humilis great for erosion control or as a hedge, this vertical bamboo with small leaves is distinctive because of its short culm internodes (4-6"), and the first few internodes of each branch are hollow.
the  wide range of conditions under which this genus can be grown, plus its utility  and beauty, have caused it to be the most commonly cultivated genus in the  world.
leaf pattern seems to be more regular, and therefore even more beautiful than the yua.
the typical form of a very  useful garden species.
phvr ph. viridis 'robert young' a handsome striped form with occasional green stripes on vivid yellow culms.
a subtly variegated form displaying green leaves covered with white  pinstripes.
(if you want to remove super large chunks at one  time, you can dig deeply around the circumference of a chunk, tie a strong rope  or chain around it, and pull it out with a truck or tractor!)
if you look very closely at the underside of the leaves, you will also see a very fine white web.
in more shade the leaves will be dark  green and shiney.
does poorly in areas where  summer temperatures go over 100 in the daytime and remain above 70 f. at night.
practical bamboos proposes imaginative design and landscaping ideas, and puts these dynamic, rewarding plants within easy reach.
a new introduction with dense, vertical growth good for  screening.
similar to the above, except it is lower growing  and develops interesting, bulging internodes and only grows 10' tall.
occasionally, check moisture in the ground by digging down to a depth  of at least 4 inches.
grows to 55' tall and 3 ½" in diameter and is noted for its good quality wood with long internodes and edible shoots.
phnid phyllostachys nigra 'henon' "dwarf" a  dwarf form of ph. nigra 'henon' grown from seeds obtained by hastings schmidt  from china, this plant has never grown to more than 30" tall in the 17  years it's been cultivated at bamboo sourcery.
grows from 35' to 45' with 1 1/2" diamters in climate of origin and 15-20' in n. california.
pleioblastus a genus of small to medium size running bamboos with numerous branches at each node and culm sheaths which remain attached to the culm.
slow spreading and shallow rhizomes are easy to control with a shovel.
considered a choice bamboo for weaving because of its strong yet  pliable fibers and the absence of prominent culm nodes.
cbmv chimonobambusa marmorea 'variegata' same as cbm,  except leaves are occasionally striped with narrow white lines.
phvxa phyllostachys vivax 'aureocaulis' identical to  ph. vivax, except that the culms are bright gold with occasional, random dark  green stripes and bright, shiney green leaves - an exceptionally striking  variety!
cold hardy to 20 f. most attractive as an  isolated clump.
young shoots are edible.
runner with shiny green culms that are occasionally zig-zagged at the base.
one of the largest, reliable, easy-to-grow, temperate  climate, giant bamboo, it can grow 72' tall and 6" in diameter and  produces excellent wood.
it is hardy to -5 degrees and is an exceptionally vigorous runner, so we recommend using 60 mil polyethylene plastic root barrier.
uniquely, the chusqueas have solid culms and exhibit a whorl of  multiple branches at each node, giving them a distinctive look.
in more shade the leaves will be dark green and shiney.
leaves are relatively wide  for their length and attractively arranged.
spring is the best planting season, allowing the whole growing season to get established before the next winter.
not recommended: bambusa multiplex 'silverstripe,' b. vulgaris vittata, chusquea circinata and sulcata, fargesias, sasas, himalayacalamus hookerianus "blue bamboo," indocalamus, semiarundinaria fastuosa, and phyllostachys nuda.
it remains much shorter in less ideal circumstances (including california).
retentive white sheathes leaves form an interesting  pattern with triangles of dark green culm showing through.
flowering of the basic nitida occurred in n. california in 2003.
prefers part shade but  can take full sun in cool summer areas.
bdos bambusa dolichomerithalla 'green stripe' will grow to 18' in the bay area.
grows up to 36' tall and  2 3/4" in diameter in half-day afternoon sun or all day full sun.
666 wagnon road, sebastopol, ca 95472
internode portion of the culm or cane between nodes.
near ocean (at least 200' away from water, with salt laden air, but  not salt spray)
this plant may reach heights of 15-20' in ideal conditions with warm, relatively dry winters, but in areas with more frost and occasional temperatures in the teens, it may maintain heights of only 5'-12'.
by the time the basket has rusted away, your bamboo is usually large and well established, and gophers cannot do enough damage to seriously harm your bamboo.
in fall, plant at least 3 months before first frost.
half-day to a full-day of shade produces an equally beautiful light lime-green color contrasting with the dark green stripes.
this is the largest of a handful of bamboos that grow new  culms from the nodes of existing culms as well as from the root.
grows in indirect light but prefers full sun in most environments.
usually 8 to 10' tall with ½" culms in northern california; 20'  with 1/2" culms in climate of origin.
use one cup per 64 sq. feet (8 oz per 8' x 8'area), applied once a month.
an excellent, bright green  ground-cover with a compact, shrubby look.
it grows to 15 feet, does  best in part shade, and is hardy to 17 degrees.
ancient healing: various parts of many bamboo species have been used in chinese and ayurvedic medicine for centuries.
lime green culms  with dark green nodes are tall and upright with weeping branches and delicate  green foliage, also resembling giant, arching feathers.
36" x 60 mil plastic rhizome barrier 36" x 60 mil.
watering: for the same reasons, close attention to watering  is very important for bamboos kept indoors.
fadr fargesia dracocephala 'rufa' this versatile and  popular new form of fargesia is more sun and heat tolerant.
insects may  be treated with the usual sprays (best applied outdoors).
it grows up to  50' tall and takes temperatures down to -5 degrees.
chimonobambusa a genus of medium sized bamboos from the himalayas, china and japan, which shoot fall and winter, and are difficult to propagate.
tips on care for bamboo ordered by mail.
to make the job easier, water the area deeply a few days before digging.
looks best with some leaves trimmed away from lower parts of canes to expose to sun and show off colors.
also, some bamboos are cold hardy to -20 degrees f. how bamboos grow bamboos grow in fits and starts.
if the leaves are drooping downward, your bamboo might be getting too much water and/or not enough drainage.
grows to 55' tall and 3  ½" in diameter and is noted for its good quality wood with long  internodes and edible shoots.
this clumper grows to 14' and is hardy to 10 degrees.
in shade, yushania, some himalayacalamus, and other drepanostachyums may be grown as well.
does not do well in summer heat, especially where  nights do not cool down below 70 f. flowered in 1994 in northern california.
those listed below are vigorous runners.
so the presence of ants or sooty mold is often a sign of insect problems.
this plant is hardy to 0 degrees and likes half to full day direct sunlight phbi ph. bambusoides 'castillon inversa' a good ornamental hedge or centerpiece, this form is the reverse of phbc with green culms and yellow stripes in a striated sulcus.
apply no more than  once every two weeks.
introduction to bamboo & bamboo sourcery bamboos are among the earth's most beautiful and useful plants, providing outstanding texture and form as screens, hedges, ground-covers and specimens.
plhi pleioblastus hindsii 'yasui' a new introduction from japan with distinctive, stiffly upright leaves and a handsome upright form.
int indocalamus tessellatus (sasa tessellata) has the  largest leaves of any bamboo in cultivation, sometimes up to 2' long by 4"  wide.
height & diameter: maximum height and diameter reached by each species in theclimate of origin is listed in the price list.
not recommended for southeastern  states in the us where nighttime summer temperatures remain above 70 f. the  fargesias are generally shade plants, but may tolerate more sun in the s.f. bay  area when getting ample daily water.
bmpgs bambusa multiplex 'gold stripe' a moderate sized  clumper similar in form to bambusa multiplex 'alphons karr,' but with green  culms exhibiting a single gold stripe in the grooves.
this is reputed to be the most cold  hardy species of the genus, tolerating -20 degrees.
troubleshooting: yellowing leaves usually indicate either too little or too much water.
prefers semi-shade and  shoots in the spring.
also, in full sun, dry, windy or hot situations, it is ideal to spray the  foliage with water once a day for an initial transition period of 2-4 weeks,  and/or all summer in dry, hot climates.
phvj ph. viridis 'houzeau' very similar to ph. viridis  'robert young' with reverse coloring: culms are green with a single yellow  stripe in the sulcus.
foliage has an upright spikey look.
a runner which grows to 6' tall, has swollen nodes, and is hardy to at least 5 degrees.
you will need to keep a close eye on your bamboo for a while to determine  how much and how often to water in your particular microclimate, soil type and  season.
the parent grove is located in folsom, california and is growing in well irrigated, deep, sandy loam.
very  expensive and hard to find in retail stores
regular overhead watering will reduce  the amount of leaf drop during the transition, help your bamboo get established  quickly, and increase its growth rate and ultimate height in dry climates.
in order to determine whether the plant may be useful to us and the  feasibility of digging, we will need a few photographs and/or cane samples sent  to us: i.e. a length of cane with 1-2 nodes, branches, and leaves in a zip-loc  bag and then in a brown envelope.
plha pleioblastus humilis 'albovariegatus' introduced to this country by gerald bol in about 1994-5, and assumed to be a variety of pl. humilis, this plant has brightly striped leaves, 50-50 white and green.
if you find that new shoots or new branch buds are being chewed up by squirrels or gophers, painting on tabasco sauce is quite effective!
light: bamboos do best indoors with at least all day  bright indirect natural light.
prices are listed for the smaller size containers (1 gal and 5 gal), suitable for shipping anywhere in the country.
use other manures if you have them available, but avoid nitrogen-hot ones, such as chicken and steer manure.
containment of bamboo runners: runners should generally be contained if on a property line or in a small yard, even if bordered by surface structures such as brick or cement patio, cement sidewalk or driveway, or shallow walls.
a few plants may also suffer from summer heat, such as fargesias and some  chusqueas, which do not tolerate hot summer nights (over 70 f.).
is hardy to -10 degrees.
it commonly grows 3-6' tall and  is hardy to -10 degrees.
grows to a maximum of 50' and 3" in diameter, and to 30' and 2" in northern california.
one nice feature is that bamboo in the west is a deer-proof plant!
it turns leaves somewhat yellow, but is our treatment of  choice because of its high effectiveness and low toxicity to the environment.
we use apex,  14-14-14, a product similar to osmocote, 14-14-14, with a 4-6 month release  rate, depending on temperature.
bdos bambusa dolichomerithalla 'green stripe' will  grow to 18' in the bay area.
node point on the culm from which branches and leaves grow on the outside, and where the diaphragm appears inside, separating hollow segments of the culm.
tolerates temperatures down to -5 degrees.
here every season has its advantages, with spring and summer offering the most active growing periods and fall, winter and spring sharing the rainy season.
as an “open clumper,” culms are erect with some  distance from each other, but the tops of this plant are deeply weeping.
the young culms have a distinctive white powder creating a blue-green tone.
the culms are dark green without any  striping, with abundant deep green leaves, 3/4" wide by 4 1/2" long,  similar to the damarapa.
fine 250mm 10" gyokucho pruning saw gyokucho fugaku kajyu
(please also seepossible pests).
for a more thorough discussion of the advantages and disadvantages and how to choose the best type for your situation, see the sectionclumping and running bamboos.
this is a decorative bamboo similar to inlo, but has smaller, narrower leaves, 1" x 5".
am sun is cooler, but pm sun may be harsher,  and is especially harsh in dry climates.
cold hardy to -15 degrees.
then in spring and sometimes fall, they pump the accumulated energy into new shoots (culms), which achieve all of their height in about 30-60 days.
bamboo shoots are a delicacy  in chinese cuisine.
new shoots are unique in having  light green sheaths with spiraling dark green stripes.
its leaves are wide, short, and horizontally arranged.
leaves are about 6-8" long and 1 1/2-2" wide.
with ground plantings, a deep soaking less frequently  is best, rather than a shallow watering every day.
cal hawk brad point drill bit set 7 pc 12" gyokucho bamboo saw gykucho fugaku
in bright light to filtered sun it may grow to 7' tall.
flowering of  the basic nitida occurred in n. california in 2003.
if you have bamboo that you would like us to remove, give us a phone call to initiate the conversation.
in shade, it grows a lighter green and more openly.
a very attractive ground cover with upright foliage,  remaining fresh looking throughout the year.
planted in total  shade it forms an attractive 3' tall mounded ground cover.
it is distinctive in that its culms turn somewhat  reddish when receiving full sun on the culm itself, but otherwise both culms  and leaves are dark green.
phnff ph. nigra 'daikokuchiku' "giant black" similar to above black bamboo, except that this clone has reached 57' tall and  3.3" in diameter, possibly the greatest height of any bamboo in northern  california.
again, always make sure your  temperatures, sun exposure, sun-shade, and humidity are appropriate for any  particular species you may choose.
sheaths are dropped  quickly as the solid, dark green culms grow about 20' tall and 1 ¼"  diameter in the climate of origin.
looks  best in full sun, which turns the canes reddish in the fall, but will grow in  1/2-day afternoon sun.
new growth during spring and summer restores the planting to a solid green appearance.
masses of bright green leaves form on multiple short  branches.
also drought resistant.
hardy to -10  degrees and more if heavily mulched.
bamboo likes plenty of deep watering - soaking down to at least 8-12 inches - and also good drainage.
grows to 20-30' tall, is hardy to -5 degrees and needs half to full day sun.
aphids are small crawling insects, either green or black in color.
all species  have edible shoots.
you may also purchase2-sided tape with polypropylene glue to seal the ends together.
the culms are dark green without any striping, with abundant deep green leaves, 3/4" wide by 4 1/2" long, similar to the damarapa.
likes a half-day of morning sun to half-day afternoon sun, and culms will turn chocolate-red and shiny with more sun.
rhizomes produce the roots, top growth, and new rhizomes.
the  new culms often have a pinkish or reddish cast.
sbms sasaella masamuneana 'albostriata' also known as  "sam bamboo."
phi ph. iridescens beautiful dark green leaves and culms and is useful as a visual screen and wind break.
in more sun, culms turn maroon to almost black with delicate purplish green leaves.
a spectacular variegated form of tootsik that has white leaves with green stripes and darker, olive green culms.
the cane also  develop a showy, reddish color with sun exposure.
in hotter southern states, this plant must be kept in shade all day, and therefore cane color will be chestnut brown, as they usually are when shipped, also.
if the plant is  small, simply washing the leaves under running water can be effective.
this  clumper grows to 14' and is hardy to 10 degrees.
'nigricans' may be a dwarf form of culeou.
it  readily forms dense masses of foliage in less light than most bamboos and may  be effectively used for screening in shady places.
canes are bright green and smooth.
an excellent, bright green ground-cover with a compact, shrubby look.
however, if the roots survive, they will produce new shoots (culms) in spring  or summer.
masses of long narrow leaves hang in graceful plumes on smokey green  culms.
covers 300 species in 35 genera.
shibataea a genus of small, non-aggressive, running bamboos from china and japan with 3 to 5 short branches per node and wide, short leaves.
growth habit may be vertical & narrow, bushy & wide, weeping, arching at the top, dense or airy, etc.
most of these items and many of our plants can be viewed in color photos on our website at bamboosourcery.com.
water need only be present for one season a year.
a good container  plant.
flowering of the individual plant may continue for 2 to 7 years and is often fatal, but with extra care and feeding, the mother plant may survive and just be smaller.
often mites and aphids can be found together, and the treatment for both is the same.
canes are consistently solid black, even in the young plants.
locally, in northern california, it grows about 20-30' tall and 1 ½" in diameter.
half-day of morning sun produces a deep yellow color  and requires plenty of watering.
then wait until the soil is just slightly damp - not wet, and not bone dry - before watering again.
bmpgs bambusa multiplex 'gold stripe' a moderate sized clumper similar in form to bambusa multiplex 'alphons karr,'
one of the largest, reliable, easy-to-grow, temperate climate, giant bamboo, it can grow 72' tall and 6" in diameter and produces excellent wood.
all plants will look somewhat better if in shade some part of the day.
pseudosasa this asian genus consists of small to medium sized, running bamboos with usually one and never more than three branches per node.
see below for stronger measures, if required.
grows 25' tall with 1.5" diameter culms in the climate of origin, and approximately 15' tall in the sf bay area.
not good in desert climates.
watering: for the same reasons, close attention to watering is very important for bamboos kept indoors.
pleioblastus a genus of small to medium size running bamboos with numerous branches at  each node and culm sheaths which remain attached to the culm.
start on the  outside of the clump or grove and work your way inward.
diverse: there are over 1500 species of bamboo in the world.
read on in the species description list for more information and color photos.
flowering of bamboos one of the mysteries of bamboo is how some species are able to flower periodically all over the world at the same time.
rhizome a type of rootstock consisting of a creeping stem, usually growing horizontally underground.
it does well in 80 degree summer heat as well.
bmp bambusa multiplex
likes plenty of sun and is cold hardy to 18f. bmpt bambusa multiplex 'tiny fern' a wonderful bamboo  for small hedges (3' max.
before  selecting a species for your garden, always check the temperature, sun/shade  ratings, height, and running/clumping type, and take into account your humidity  levels.
this makes it ideal for indoor or tabletop fountains.
all variegated forms of the above genera and dwarf forms of pleioblastus should also be grown in shade only.
in full sun the culms turn scarlet.
in a potting mix one basically looks for texture rather than nutrition, however.
runners vs clumpers - choosing the best type for your needs: we provide here some tips and criteria for choosing between runners and clumpers for a given purpose or planting location.
gophers: in northern california we have an abundance of gophers and  squirrels, who think tender new rhizomes, bamboo shoots, and even new branch  buds are a delicacy.
follow directions on bottle,  including all safety precautions.
canes are bright  green and smooth.
then wait until the soil is  just slightly damp - not wet, and not bone dry - before watering again.
masses of long narrow leaves hang in graceful plumes on smokey green culms.
grows from 35' to 45'  with 1 1/2" diamters in climate of origin and 15-20' in n. california.
aphids, mealy bugs and scale are sometimes accompanied by ants and/or sooty mold.
they usually have one branch per node and they shoot in the  spring.
shoots in the spring and fall.
installation of  misters to mist the foliage daily is an optional but useful aid to help plants  get established, look their best and grow ultimately taller.
suggested indoor bamboos: click here for the list.
seyk semiarundinaria yashadake 'kimmei' decorative bamboo with almost translucent golden culms which have a slightly zigzagging pale green stripe down the groove.
possible bamboo pests bamboo doesn't have many pests, but the pests they do have  can be unsightly, if not a serious problem, unless some simple steps are taken.
after only two hours of working with a winch, however, the structure was successfully moved back into place without collapsing.
the wide range of conditions under which this genus can be grown, plus its utility and beauty, have caused it to be the most commonly cultivated genus in the world.
semk semiarundinaria makinoi graceful low hedge or containerized plant with varying colors through the seasons.
myriads of small leaves form lovely patterns  on blue-green culms.
farming bamboo by daphne lewis & carol miles finally!
not only will round-up  poison your soil (and possibly yourself), but the root mass left in the ground  will make other uses or replanting of the same area difficult, if not  impossible, and often the plants will still re-shoot.
bamboo sourcery also sells bamboos that are 10-20 ft, even 30 ft. tall  already which can be used for "instant screens."
plck pleioblastus chino 'kimmei' this decorative  bamboo has attractive green leaves with occasional golden stripes.
phvc ph. violascens a totally unique bamboo with thin green to purple to mahogany vertical stripes all around the green culms.
but we offer the following guidelines: bamboos grow best in rich, moist, well-drained soils.
grows up to 30' tall with 2" diameter culms in the climate of origin.
pair it with a large container to create a symphony of water.
bte bambusa textilis 'weaver's bamboo' a stately,  upright giant timber clumper which grows 20 to 30' tall in northern california  and taller in the south.
it is characterized by the grainy quality of the culm surface which can be felt by running the edge of your thumbnail up and down the culm surface.
171 pgs of species descriptions & color photos.
looks well and retains its colors through the winter if well  watered in summer, but can be pruned down and refreshed in spring if desired.
cold hardy to 20 f. excellent specimen plant or hedge.
very  delicate and airy with an umbrella shape overall, growing to 8-15' tall and  1" in diameter.
dark purplish culms are covered with a bluish-white powder when young, and leaves are delicate and attractive.
also, severe leaf  drop may occur as a plant adjusts to less light and ambient moisture.
high in nitrogen to keep leaves green.
sulcus a groove along the length of the internode, sometimes of a different color from the rest of the cane.
it generally grows 3' tall but can grow twice that.
air canals in rhizomes and roots make it well adapted for wetter soils.
leaves and culms are olive green.
pll pleioblastus linearis forms
attractive on a large scale with trees or a large trellis for support.
in the spring, new shoots growing up through the clump are  initially black, turning more burgundy color as they gain height.
all bamboos in this region are best  planted in spring, to maximize growing season.
very delicate and airy with an umbrella shape overall, growing to 8-15' tall and 1" in diameter.
it has nearly  solid culms and is otherwise similar to the form above.
it sports gold stripes on green  leaves as well as occasional white stripe on the green canes.
cold hardy to 0 f. psjt pseudosasa japonica 'tsutsumiana' also known as "scallion bamboo."
planting in containers click the following link for details in a printable microsoft word document:bamboo in planters and containers - do's, don'ts and special maintenance considerations.
when grown in full sun its leaves tend to curl.
hardy to 0 degrees and likes half to full day sun.
hbt hibanobambusa tranquilans similar to hbts, but  this is the all green form.
they should be watered in small amounts, deeply enough that roots are kept moist (a little water should run out the bottom), but not so much that the soil stays soggy for days.
they tolerate colder temperatures than other bambusas, being hardy to 13 degrees f. or more, and do well in most northern california climate zones.
summer temperatures are very hot, above 100 degrees for weeks on end.
to our knowledge, no one knows what triggers the flowering.
new shoots have culm sheaths that are dark brown with light  brown spots.
grows to 15' tall with 1" diameter canes in brazil and is cold hardy to 20  degrees.
yum yushania maling (also known as arundinaria  maling).
(it may leave permanent stains on culms, however).
it grows to 20' tall with 1½" diameter in n. california and is hardy to 0 degrees.
all about bamboothe bamboo sourcery information supplement is a complete guide to the world of bamboo, providing thorough and accurate information and advice about such useful topics as bamboo care and cultivation, planting, selection of species, clumpers, runners, containment, flowering, pests, growing indoors, etc.
culm sheaths are soft green.
phbc ph. bambusoides 'castillon' this form, a mutation of ph. bambusoides, has yellow culms with a light green stripe in the sulcus, and occasionally a few bright green stripes elsewhere.
makes interesting subject  for bonsai.
nutrition is easy to supplement.
all species have edible shoots.
chcq chusquea culeou (61-11) 'chilean straight' a  superlative hardy ornamental, long cultivated in england but new to the usa.
culms grow up to 20' and are shiney dark brown with full sun and light brown with less sun.
exceptionally hardy to wind, drought & aridity.
phaq ph. aureosulcata "yellow groove" this  plant is a real stand-out with brightly colored green canes and a bold yellow  vertical stripe in the sulcus.
however, the following bamboos are relatively more salt tolerant.
the otatea is hardy to only 20 degrees and may experience leaf drop and cane die-back at 18 degrees.
this bamboo is similar to  borinda boliana with blue-green powdery canes, but an open clumper with larger  blue green leaves.
over 1000 species of bamboo in 90 genera have been described and named.
nitida is is exceptionally cold resistant, withstanding -15 degrees, and is probably the most popular bamboo in northern europe.
hchf himalayacalamus hookerianus 'falcatus' almost  identical in appearance to 'blue bamboo', but more gray-blue and shorter,  growing about 15' in the climate of origin.
several  related nitida varieties began flowering in europe in 2002-2003.
certain plants, when grown in california, reach 50% of the height they achieve in the climate of origin.
because the spout sits near the surface of the water, it works well even in shallow containers.
also, severe leaf drop may occur as a plant adjusts to less light and ambient moisture.
bol bambusa oldhamii "giant timber" a giant timber clumper growing 55' tall and 4" in diameter in southern california and 20' to 30' up north.
prefers a half-day of sun,  morning or afternoon, except in climates with frequent 100 degree summer  temperatures, where it tolerates am sun and bright, indirect light only.
compare with  the number of hours of direct sun which your plants will receive, and what part  of the day they will be in sun.
phas ph. aureosulcata 'spectabilis' a very attractive  recent introduction with a green sulcus on bright yellow culms, turning  cranberry red where sun strikes the cane in summer.
(note: if you have gophers in your area, be sure to read the section onpests before planting).
it's best  to plant in mild fall weather to give plants time to get established before hot  summer temperatures and take advantage of winter rains.
sapn sasa palmata 'nebulosa' valued by many for its  large leaved, tropical appearance.
(add plants to shopping cart before barrier to enable discount.)
it grows from 6 to 10', has stiffly vertical leaves and branches, and  thrives between 0 and 90 degrees.
the tiny root fragments will thus be deprived of nourishment from  above and will die off.
summer temperatures are very hot, above 100  degrees for weeks on end.
this plant grows up to 72' tall and 6" in diameter in its native climate.
a tight clumper with  slender, bright green culms which bend under the weight of abundant, small  narrow leaves, creating a delicate, graceful look.
brf borinda fungosa (frmrly fargesia fungosa) "chocolate  bamboo" ornamental weeping bamboo that can be used as a screen  or centerpiece.
the culms  are dark green, developing burgundy tones when exposed to sunlight.
we will also need some information about the height of your plant, size of the area it covers, soil type, surrounding structures, and any other relevant details, including your address and phone number.
hardy to 0 degrees and likes good indirect light to half day direct sunlight.
this is a plant for many uses, such as hedging, erosion  control, crafts and fencing.
hardy to 15 degrees, and tolerates a  wide range of lighting.
moderate spreader, 15' tall and hardy to 0  degrees.
however, in the afternoon the plant prefers shade, and hot afternoon sun will yellow the leaves.
phni ph. nigra 'henon' an all green form of black  bamboo which can grow 60' tall and 5" in diameter in the climate of  origin.
one may either repot it into a larger pot or divide the plant with a saw or hatchet.
half-day to a full-day of shade produces an  equally beautiful light lime-green color contrasting with the dark green  stripes.
overwinters well  without pruning.
bra borinda albocerea
north (cold winters down to 0 to 20 f.) recommended: all fargesias (shade plants which are native to high mountain environments) are a good choice.
outstandingly beautiful foliage and craftsman quality wood.
culms grow up to 20' and are shiney dark brown with full sun and light brown  with less sun.
grows  15' tall, 1" in diameter.
individual culms and rhizomes only live an average of 5-10 years, and the culms grow no taller or bigger with age.
to learn more about the types of bamboo and containment methods for bamboo, please see the section titledclumping and running bamboos.
colder temperatures experienced for several nights may kill the tops or even whole canes, causing them to turn beige.
in china it is called the beautiful bamboo.
apply the following amounts once every four to six months: 1-gallon planter - 1 tbsp 5-gallon planter - 2 tbsp 15-gallon planter - ¼ cup 25-gallon planter - ½ cup 3' x 3' planter - 1 cup watering of bamboo first and foremost, keep your bamboo well watered.
repotting every third year is often helpful to keep the plant growing vigorously and looking its best.
runners fill in the spaces between plantings faster, making them ideal for fast screens, hedges, and the popular open grove look.
not only will round-up poison your soil (and possibly yourself), but the root mass left in the ground will make other uses or replanting of the same area difficult, if not impossible, and often the plants will still re-shoot.
reaches 20' tall with 1' diameter culms in the climate of origin.
grows to 20' tall with  1½" in diameter in the climate of origin, 15'’ tall with  ¾"” diameter here locally.
keep in  mind, also, that young plants may not immediately show colors and variegation  when you receive them, but these features will become more prominent after the  first year or two.
it is hardy to heat and drought tolerant, but is sensitive to salts and minerals in the air, water and soil, which readily result in leaf tip burn.
leaves are up to 1 ¼" wide by  7" long.
this tibetan bamboo is a stately and highly decorative ornamental.
if you are keeping your plants in containers, or unable to transplant for a while, make sure the water is running out of the bottom of the pot each time you water.
the top  2-3”inches of soil should be allowed to dry out before watering again.
excellent for fast-growing,  dense screens and hedges.
considered a choice bamboo for weaving because of its strong yet pliable fibers and the absence of prominent culm nodes.
create an insecticidal soap made with arm & hammer laundry detergent  (powder), using 1 tablespoon per 1 gal water in a sprayer.
light: bamboos do best indoors with at least all day bright indirect natural light.
seo semiarundinaria okuboi previously known as semiarundinaria villosa.
aphids, mealy bugs and scale are sometimes accompanied by ants and/or  sooty mold.
cbm chimonobambusa marmorea "red" also known as "marbled" bamboo because its new shoots are marbled with cream and purple.
if you find that new shoots or new branch buds are being  chewed up by squirrels or gophers, painting on tabasco sauce is quite  effective!
running bamboos  fill in the spaces between the original plants the fastest, and even with 3'  ft. spacing some screening can be achieved within 2-3 years with smaller size  pots.
mature plants look like tall clumps of giant  feathers.
tools for removing bamboo: a shovel, hatchet, ax, pick, strong  maddox, and a long, strong pry bar are the most common tools used for removing  bamboo.
hbts hibanobambusa tranquilans 'shiroshima' quite striking for its brightly variegated leaves, which are white and yellow with vivid green stripes and about 1 ½" x 8-10" in size.
in hotter southern  states, this plant must be kept in shade all day, and therefore cane color will  be chestnut brown, as they usually are when shipped, also.
in order to determine whether the plant may be useful to us and the feasibility of digging, we will need a few photographs and/or cane samples sent to us: i.e. a length of cane with 1-2 nodes, branches, and leaves in a zip-loc bag and then in a brown envelope.
semiarundinaria a genus of colorful medium size running bamboos from east asia three branches per node and nearly cylindrical culms.
in very hot summer climates , the best planting times for bamboos are early spring and late fall.
for  example, many of the bamboos like humidity and warmth, which makes them taller  and larger in diameter; but aridity and/or cooler winters will prevent some  plants from reaching their maximum size.
beautiful color photos.
this is especially important during the first 2-3 months  after transplanting.
a new introduction with dense, vertical growth good for screening.
we will also need some information about the  height of your plant, size of the area it covers, soil type, surrounding  structures, and any other relevant details, including your address and phone  number.
multiple short branches grow from each node, and culms reach 15' tall and 1" in diameter in the climate of origin.
grows 6'  tall, hardy to 0
a quick grower, 15-20' tall, hardy to 0 degrees, it likes half to full day sun.
but with green culms exhibiting a single gold stripe in the grooves.
formerly, several pleioblastus  and yushania were listed as arundinaria.
in summer shade, the culms remain rich green with white node rings.
open 9-4, tuesday-saturday appointments recommended - drop-ins welcome!
this is a very  popular garden form with attractive gold culms with multiple green stripes.
likes filtered  light.
avid: kills specifically only mites and leaf miners, no other insects or  birds.
a great book on commercial farming of bamboo!
phhp ph. heterocycla 'pubescens' (china) "moso" the largest growing species of the genus and considered by many to be  the most beautiful, moso is the most cultivated bamboo in china and japan.
so the presence of  ants or sooty mold is often a sign of insect problems.
sinobambusa a genus of tropical running chinese bamboos similar to semiarundinaria except the culm sheaths promptly fall off.
otherwise similar  to phba.
below the 4inch depth, soil should be lightly moist around the roots at all times.
hardy to 0 degrees and likes half to  full day sun.
uniquely, the chusqueas have solid culms and exhibit a whorl of multiple branches at each node, giving them a distinctive look.
bxd brachystachyum densiflorum (sometimes classified as arundinaria densiflora or bashania densiflora).
unique to this bamboo is the extremely variable internode length and occasional bulging internodes, giving the canes a knobby look.
small closely spaced bluish-green culms and delicate foliage create a deeply  arching, umbrella-like form.
the nursery and gardens, located 1¼ hrs drive north of san francisco, is open by appointment only, thursdays, fridays and saturdays (days and hours may vary seasonally).
phnf ph. nigra "black bamboo" one of the most popular bamboos, both for the black culms and the plumed masses of bright green leaves.
likes full sun to a half-day of afternoon sun.
when grown in part shade, the culms bend over with the weight of numerous, closely spaced leaves.
pham ph. aurea 'flavescens-inversa' a very striking  cultivar of phaj.
the culms come up green and slowly turn black during the first  year or two.
bambusas usually have round culms with numerous branches at each node, although one or two usually predominate.
however, if your climate has hot, humid, long summers and stays well within the plant's cold tolerance, and if the plant is located in an appropriate amount of sun or shade and will have year-round water, you can generally expect the maximum height.
culms arch in upper part and many thin branches half encircle each node.
recommended: assuming the species' temperature rating is appropriate for your area, some good choices are the bambusas, otatea acuminata, pseudosasa japonica, chimonobambusa quadrangularis, semiarundinaria fastuosa, pleioblastus hindsii, pl. gramineus, pl. simonii and simonii 'heterophyllus.'
drepanostachyum sengteeanum, borinda boliana, chusquea nigricans, and ch.
it behaves as a clumper in cool summer climates and a runner in warm ones.
grows  to 6' tall and handles both sun and shade.
in the eastern u.s., the white-tailed deer co-evolved with our one native american species of bamboo, arundinaria gigantea, and developed a taste for bamboo; and therefore, deer fencing is more imperative in the eastern states.
it grows to 12' tall and 1 ½" in  diameter and is good as a screen or hedge.
olive green, shiny,  upright and full foliage from bottom to top when mature.
all plants will look somewhat better if in a little shade some part of the day.
an especially exciting subject for bonsai.
a clumper hardy  to 13 degrees, preferring half to-full day sun.
plsi pleioblastus simonii with dense green foliage, this is an excellent choice for screens and hedges in very cold winter locations or near the ocean.
likes plenty of sun and is cold hardy to 18f. bmpt bambusa multiplex 'tiny fern' a wonderful bamboo for small hedges (3' max.
culms grow to 1  ½" in diameter.
there are no hard and fast rules about planting bamboo.
bvek bambusa ventricosa 'holochrysa kimmei' very  ornamental plant.
phnm ph. nigra 'megurochiku' grows and looks very similar to 'henon'
plcm pleioblastus chino 'murakamianus' a beautiful  variegated form with 3 leaf colors: some solid white, some green, but mostly  white leaves with green stripes (average proportion is ¼ green to  ¾ white).
great against a dark backdrop.
runner that establishes and grows rapidly.
they come in a staggering variety of colors, sizes and shapes.
the green canes show off a wide yellow stripe in the sulcus, creating alternating stripes of varying lengths up the cane.
a choice ornamental, it grows to 12 feet tall with  slender arching branches, forming a fountain shape.
phni ph. nigra 'henon' an all green form of black bamboo which can grow 60' tall and 5" in diameter in the climate of origin.
leaves are 1  ¼" x 6 ½".
it is cold-hardy to 5 degrees.
it is one of the few areas that phyllostachys  heterocycla pubescens 'moso' grows well.
running bamboos spread variously, sending out underground runners (rhizomes) which sometimes range far from the parent plant.
the polyethylene is superior to cement and metal (cement often develops cracks, and metal rusts and requires many seams), is less expensive, and can last 20-30 years when installed according to ourbarrier installation instructions.
except for the fargesias, clumpers tend to be less cold-hardy than runners.
the  roots may have dried out just once or are root-bound and not absorbing water  well.
bamboo saw 270mm 10.5'
has noteworthy drought  resistance and grows well under a wide range of conditions.
in  the eastern u.s., the white-tailed deer co-evolved with our one native american  species of bamboo, arundinaria gigantea, and developed a taste for bamboo; and  therefore, deer fencing is more imperative in the eastern states.
most mixes contain both organic and inorganic elements.
this plant has an airy look, a delightful specimen plant but too open for screening.
while the flowering of some bamboos is periodic, others seem to be triggered by environmental conditions such as drought or stress.
as the plant gets  older, it becomes more upright and dense.
runners spread wide quickly to form screens, are less expensive, but sometimes require root barrier.
in general, the temperate climate bamboos are runners, which shoot in the spring, while the tropical and sub-tropical varieties are clumpers, which shoot in the late summer and fall.
pruning saw 270mm 10.5" mikihisa folding knife mikihisa folding knife 2.75" palm rope palm rope / brown 330' gyokucho folding saw (all purpose)
it is advisable to plant a clumping bamboo 2-4 ft. from a fence to allow some room for growth, top spread, and space for maintenance between the bamboo and the fence.
culms are olive green and are useful for many purposes, at about 20' of height  by 1" diameter with some arching at the top.
we have lots of deer here in northern california, specifically the western mule deer, but have never had a problem with them.
this is the largest of a handful of bamboos that grow new culms from the nodes of existing culms as well as from the root.
humidity may also be provided by  placing a small fountain or humidifier nearby.
maximum height (near prattsville, alabama) is 45' and 3" in  diameter, while in northern california it usually grows 25-30'.
a good container plant.
it can reach 12' with culms ¾" in diameter.
they have evolved to fill a variety of ecological niches, ranging from tropical lowland to alpine highland, from rain forest to dry chaparral, and from acid to alkaline soils.
sefx semiarundinaria fortis sports very small light green leaves at each node.
in general, larger organic particles last longer before breaking down; therefore, drainage improves with larger particles, decreases with smaller ones.
best in bright light to a half-day of afternoon sun.
bdoss bambusa dolichomerithalla 'silver stripe' upright culms of this tight clumper are dark green with silver-white striping on long internodes, making it a beautiful accent clump.
classification of these bamboos has been  problematic.
phbc ph. bambusoides 'castillon' this form, a mutation  of ph. bambusoides, has yellow culms with a light green stripe in the sulcus,  and occasionally a few bright green stripes elsewhere.
as with the other forms of ph. nigra, 'bory' has very beautiful structure and foliage.
fertilizers for bamboo bamboo in the ground mar-sep: turf supreme fertilizer, 16-6-8.
an outstanding, attractive dwarf variegated bamboo.
in full sun it makes an attractive 15' tall, dense screen with large dark green leaves.
grows 6' to 8' tall and ¼" to ½" in  diameter.
phnid phyllostachys nigra 'henon' "dwarf" a dwarf form of ph. nigra 'henon' grown from seeds obtained by hastings schmidt from china, this plant has never grown to more than 30" tall in the 17 years it's been cultivated at bamboo sourcery.
crafting & wood working tools bamboo hatchett bamboo hatchett oak handle 6.5" brad point drill bit set 7 pc 12"
color and other characteristics are identical to the 'henon', but this dwarf is now the smallest known plant in the phyllostachys genus.
phvc ph. violascens a totally unique bamboo with thin  green to purple to mahogany vertical stripes all around the green culms.
moso is difficult to establish and requires lots of water,  acidity, tropical humidity and heat to reach its full potential.
shooting is  in the spring for most species.
please check the sun/shade ratings listed under "indoor plant selection" (or on our price lists for other plants that interest you).
smaller than the typical form, it grows 40-65' tall and 3-5" in diameter in its native environment, and still is one of the tallest growing bamboos in northern california, reaching 50' tall and 5" diameter.
sakls sasa kurilensis 'simofuri' "fallen snow" a hardy bamboo from the kuril islands, the northernmost islands of japan.
grows up to 30' tall 2' in diameter.
the parent grove is located in folsom, california and is growing in  well irrigated, deep, sandy loam.
it has a straight, vertical growth habit  suitable for visual screens in narrow places.
grows to 12' tall, is good for hedges and screening, and does well under redwoods.
cold hardy to -5  degrees.
it grows to 15 feet, does best in part shade, and is hardy to 17 degrees.
this plant prefers morning sun and afternoon shade,  and it spreads slowly in shade, almost like a clumper.
it has a straight, vertical growth habit suitable for visual screens in narrow places.
to protect the rhizomes from gophers, the best solution is  to plant inside of a ¼ inch mesh metal gopher basket (which can be  purchased).
mealy bugs and scale are less of a problem in areas which receive hard frosts in winter.
will grow indoors with 2-3 hours direct sun and misting.
too little water may cause leaves to have brown tips, curl up, look dry and yellow, and begin to drop.
dark purplish culms are  covered with a bluish-white powder when young, and leaves are delicate and  attractive.
if mulched, the rhizomes alone can probably withstand -30 degrees and  shoot again in the spring.
in cold climates, they may be grown herbaciously by  mulching heavily during the winter, and will survive an additional 10 to 20  degrees colder than listed and produce new top growth in the spring.
we provide no guarantee for plants placed in indoor environments, but if you are feeling adventurous and have a good green thumb, read on!
reaches about 35' in northern california.
however, height and diameter are affected by all aspects of climate: high and low temperatures, sun/shade exposure, humidity/aridity, water supplied, length of growing season, etc.
tolerates a little more sun and more shade, but height and diameter are the same as the damarapa.
sav sasa veitchii "kuma-zasa" attractive  dark green leaves which, toward winter, develop a bold, quasi-variegated  effect.
we  provide no guarantee for plants placed in indoor environments, but if you are  feeling adventurous and have a good green thumb, read on!
the culms come up green and slowly turn black during the first year or two.
the typical form of a very useful garden species.
in  more sun, culms turn maroon to almost black with delicate purplish green  leaves.
compare with the number of hours of direct sun which your plants will receive, and what part of the day they will be in sun.
clusters of small, light grayish-green pointed leaves.
yua yushania anceps a very graceful mountain bamboo from formosa and the philippines.
sasaella a genus of running bamboos similar to sasa except with straight culms and  smaller leaves.
tolerates a full day of sun, but also is less cold hardy at 25 degrees.
experience has shown that this plant can take full sun, making it an excellent ground cover.
not for desert environments.
pharr ph. aureosulcata 'harbin' this cultivar has  yellow culms with multiple green grooves running the length of each internode,  with no sulcus stripe.
excellent tolerance for summer heat, winter cold, and drought.
phhu ph. humilis great for erosion control or as a  hedge, this vertical bamboo with small leaves is distinctive because of its  short culm internodes (4-6"), and the first few internodes of each branch  are hollow.
fastuosa "temple bamboo" also  known as 'japanese temple bamboo' or "red temple bamboo."
far south (tropical, semi-tropical, humid, warm year round, no frost)
all variegated forms of the above genera and dwarf forms of pleioblastus should be grown in shade only.
if the soil is dry at 4 inches, water is not getting to the roots adequately.
good in pots or in the ground as a hedge.
culms and leaves are  dark green and arching at the very top.
if mites are found,  immediately separate the plants from other bamboos in your garden and clean  thoroughly with a high-powered hose.
sheath an enclosing "leaf" which protects the  young shoots, culms, and sometimes branches as well.
arundinaria   bambusa   bashania   borinda    brachystachyum   chimonobambusa   chusquea   drepanostachyum   fargesia   gelidocalamus   hibanobambusa   himalayacalamus   indocalamus   indosasa   otatea   phyllostachys    pleioblastus   pseudosasa   sasa   sasaella    semiarundinaria   shibataea   sinobambusa   thamnocalamus    yushania arundinaria a genus of medium sized, hardy, running bamboos with 3-6 branches at each  node, persistent culm sheaths, and no sulcus.
call bamboo sourcery to order at 707-823-5866.
borinda a recently created genus of clumpers and "open clumpers" from the mountainous regions of asia, composed of several species that had been previously assigned to other genera, such as fargesia, yushania, arundinaria, thamnocalamus, and himalayacalamus.
coastal california and much of the san francisco bay area have prime chusquea climates.
shiney dark green leaves have a  sprinkling of bright yellow and cream stripes.
exceptionally hardy, withstanding temperatures to -15 degrees.
grows to 12' tall, is good for hedges  and screening, and does well under redwoods.
the information in this catalog will enable you to grow beautiful, well-behaved bamboo.
dosage depends on size of container: 1 tbsp per 1 gal container, 2 tbsp per 5 gal container, 4 tbsp per 15 gal  container, ½ c. per 25 gal container, 1 c. per 3' x 3' container.
36" x 60 mil rhizome barrier (with $100 bamboo purchase) ($.20/foot will beadded to shipping cost for states east of the mississippi).
has light green leaves, ½" x 3-5", which grow in small clusters at each node.
prefers a half-day of sun, morning or afternoon, except in climates with frequent 100 degree summer temperatures, where it tolerates am sun and bright, indirect light only.
bamboo runners may be easily contained, since the rhizomes grow sideways at a depth of only about 2-18 inches.
grows to 23' tall and 1" in diameter in the climate of origin and 15-18' tall in the sf bay area, but can be pruned to any height.
vivax is hardy to -5 degrees.
leaves are 1 ¼" x 6 ½".
hardy to 15 degrees, and tolerates a wide range of lighting.
coastal california and much of the san francisco bay area have prime chusquea  climates.
the symptoms of mites are small, regular, bleached-looking spots on the  leaves.
sat sasa tsuboiana attractive dark green foliage with  leaves reaching 7" in length.
cold hardy to 22 f. chni chusquea sp.
bamboo buildings have proven to be exceedingly earthquake proof.
because the flowering interval of some bamboo species is so long, botanists in the field often have difficulty finding flowers and defining species on that basis.
north (cold winters down to 0 to –20 f.) recommended: all fargesias (shade plants which are native to high mountain  environments) are a good choice.
being an important timber variety, records of its flowering go back many centuries.
frequently grows with a pronounced zig-zag at  the base ('crookstem').
graceful, arching green culms with  delicate palmate foliage resemble a large, lacey japanese maple.
cbqs chimonobambusa quadrangularis 'suow' highly  ornamental bamboo from china which is also good for screening .
hardy to -10 degrees and a vigorous runner.
a beautiful erect specimen or hedge plant.
mealy  bugs appear usually in branch joints as little spots of "white  cotton" which seem not to move at all.
sav sasa veitchii "kuma-zasa" attractive dark green leaves which, toward winter, develop a bold, quasi-variegated effect.
pole width tapers from end to end.
however, the following bamboos are relatively more salt  tolerant.
3' x 3' planter - 1 cup watering of bamboo first and foremost, keep your bamboo well watered.
this water feature provides more sound than other fountain kits and can help mask traffic noise and other distractions.
30" x 60 mil rhizome barrier (with $100 bamboo purchase) ($.20/foot will beadded to shipping cost for states east of the mississippi.)
fir bark, compost, and peat are good organic components.
phb ph. bambusoides "madake" also known as  'giant japanese timber bamboo',”this plant has bright green smooth canes  and medium size leaves.
the branches and leaves develop in another 30-60 days.
this aggressive runner grows to 25' and  1½" in diameter.
the less light, the slower growth will be.
if this  occurs, often the plant will grow new leaves which are more acclimated to the  indoor conditions.
graceful foliage is arranged in attractive tiers, creating a waterfall effect, or if topped, an umbrella-like shape.
there arecanes with colors, stripes, large/small diameters, exposed or covered with foliage.
the top 2-3inches of soil should be allowed to dry out before watering again.
selection is all a matter of taste and purpose.
yuanp yushania anceps 'pitt white' possibly the same  as yua, but this clone is a seedling of a plant which grew 32' tall at pitt  white, england.
these plants generally have thin canes with small leaves.
the culms are golden with a slightly spiraling green stripe.
phaj ph. aurea "hedge bamboo" "golden" (also known as "golden bamboo")
dig down 3-4 inches into the soil  frequently to monitor moisture.
this plant is  hardy to 0 degrees and likes half to full day direct sunlight phbi ph. bambusoides 'castillon inversa' a good  ornamental hedge or centerpiece, this form is the reverse of phbc with green  culms and yellow stripes in a striated sulcus.
hardy to -15 degress.
that is why the older parts of the plant are frequently the smallest.
it is hardy to  -5 degrees and is an exceptionally vigorous runner, so we recommend using 60  mil polyethylene plastic root barrier.
this sometimes results in multiple names for the same plant and a great deal of confusion.
shooting is in the spring.
but with the addition of a brown or purplish-black stripe in  the grooves on the culms.
they grow 20' tall at high elevations in southern chile and will thrive between 0 and 90 f. chcum chusquea cumingii
it grows to 20' tall  with 1½" diameter in n. california and is hardy to 0 degrees.
recommended: assuming the species' temperature rating is appropriate for  your area, some good choices are the bambusas, otatea acuminata, pseudosasa  japonica, chimonobambusa quadrangularis, semiarundinaria fastuosa, pleioblastus  hindsii, pl. gramineus, pl. simonii and simonii 'heterophyllus.'
these materials help retain moisture, acidify the soil, and also provide nutrition to the plants.
all variegated forms of the above genera and dwarf forms of  pleioblastus should be grown in shade only.
sita sinobambusa tootsik albostriata (1 gal = 2 gal at this time)
hardy to 10 f and tolerant of salt air.
this is especially important during the first 2-3 months after transplanting.
f. sanag sasa nagimontana (muroi) creates discrete clumps  about 6' tall with semi-dark green leaves and culms.
thomas edison used bamboo filaments in his first light bulbs, and one of those bulbs is still burning today at the smithsonian in washington, dc!
culms are rough to the touch with large nodes, and grow in an upright form.
phnh ph. nigra 'hale' this type of black bamboo shows its color sooner than any other with new shoots that are mostly black when they break ground and turning completely black in 3-6 months.
traditionally used as a  blowpipe for cooking in taiwan.
hcp himalayacalamus porcatus a very upright, tight clumper with light green leaves and misty green canes covered with a white powder.
looks best with some  leaves trimmed away from lower parts of canes to expose to sun and show off  colors.
tolerant to salt air, wind and drought.
cut and cured canes become dark yellow to beige with black and brown mottling, which make them exceptionally beautiful for musical instruments, furniture and crafts.
recommended: almost anything will grow in this area if minimum temperature  rating of species is appropriate.
several related nitida varieties began flowering in europe in 2002-2003.
grows up to 36' tall and 2 3/4" in diameter in half-day afternoon sun or all day full sun.
bamboo can beguile and possess.
distinguishing characteristic is the  short, knobby, bulging internodes at the base of its culms, adding interest.
int indocalamus tessellatus (sasa tessellata) has the largest leaves of any bamboo in cultivation, sometimes up to 2' long by 4" wide.
seyki semiarundinaria yashadake 'kimmei inversa' also similar to seyk, but culms are light green with a yellow stripe, with culms receiving direct sun turning blackish with a red stripe.
likes full sun in temperate climates, but half to full-day of shade in very hot climates.
shooting is in the spring for most species.
culms are thick walled and straight, making them useful for many purposes.
if mulched, the rhizomes alone can probably withstand -30 degrees and shoot again in the spring.
phvxa phyllostachys vivax 'aureocaulis' identical to ph. vivax, except that the culms are bright gold with occasional, random dark green stripes and bright, shiney green leaves - an exceptionally striking variety!
these insects all produce a sticky secretion that can be eaten by  ants, and sometimes a black sooty mold grows on it as well.
some even clamber up trees.
growing 20-25' tall with 1½" diameter culms, this plant is unique in being so brightly variegated and also tall.
good for erosion control and tolerates ocean environments with salt air.
chgi chusquea gigantea another chusquea new to the u.s., growing about 25' tall and 1¾" inches in diameter with exceptionally long branches at 3-4½ feet.
will grow to 25' in the bay area.
some creep along the ground only a few inches tall, others soar freestanding to over 100 feet.
with the proper sun exposure this makes an attractive container plant and is excellent for erosion control or hedges.
it tolerates lower light levels than any other bamboo.
to protect the rhizomes from gophers, the best solution is to plant inside of a ¼ inch mesh metal gopher basket (which can be purchased).
similar to cbq, but canes are gold with thin green stripes, and the new shoots are occasionally pink.
baf bashania fargesii (sometimes classified as arundinaria fargesii).
grows in indirect light but prefers full sun in  most environments.
likes a half-day of morning sun to half-day afternoon sun, and  culms will turn chocolate-red and shiny with more sun.
scheduling is sometimes unpredictable, so flexibility in scheduling is  very helpful.
however, height and diameter are  affected by all aspects of climate: high and low temperatures, sun/shade  exposure, humidity/aridity, water supplied, length of growing season, etc.
this is called gregarious flowering.
culms almost translucent when sun is shining through them.
grows to 20' tall and 1" in diameter.
sbb sasaella bitchuensis this plant grows up to 4-6' tall and has leaves which are wide, long and dark green.
in maturity, it has the characteristic weeping "umbrella" shape, and the culm sheaths and branches are copper colored.
looks best in  shade with no direct sun; but will tolerate am sun.
a handsome, medium sized species with dark green, shiney leaves and green culms.
used for walking sticks in sichuan.
site and soil preparation most bamboos grow best in deep, well-drained, fertile soils, and they generally prefer neutral to slightly acid soils.
also highly recommended for plants in the ground is composted horse manure, which is the bamboo fertilizer of choice in asia.
the species grows best in full sun and are successful in almost any climate, including coastal environments and even desert areas, as long as winter temperatures are not too cold.
it is a moderate runner, hardy to -10 degrees, in full to part sun.
it may reach 50' with 5" diameter culms in n. california, and lends a strong, vertical, structural quality to any landscape.
the current rate of discovery suggests many more are still unknown.
removal services: we are sometimes able to offer bamboo removal services.
bamboo sourcery also sells bamboos that are 10-20 ft, even 30 ft. tall already which can be used for "instant screens."
hardy to 0 degrees and does well in half-day morning sun to full sun.
if you also place a layer of gravel in the bottom of your pot (which must have holes for drainage, of course), you can place the pot in a saucer of water.
without the layer of gravel, the pot must  be raised up to keep it out of the water that collects in the saucer.
next flowering and die-back not due until approximately 2085.
we do not sell plants that we know to be going into "gregarious flowering" stage, however we also do not have records adequate to predict when most species will flower.
not recommended: all semiarundinarias, phyllostachys nuda, and all ph. nigras (except ph. nigra 'henon'), which need cold winters and cooler summer nights to do well.
bamboos can be grown well in very shallow soils if adequate fertility and moisture are maintained.
this exceptionally cold tolerant bamboo withstands -10 degrees.
be sure to check that the temperature rating for the species is appropriate for your area.
excellent for either screening or free standing ornamental.
somewhat less cold temperatures may cause only leaf burn and the loss of some leaves.
the aureosulcata group is great for medium to large size hedges and specimen plants.
most are newly introduced to the u.s. and hard to find.
makes an excellent screen up to 15' in height.
indocalamus a genus of small asian running bamboos which shoot in spring and are relatively hardy.
phvr ph. viridis 'robert young' a handsome striped  form with occasional green stripes on vivid yellow culms.
great  against a dark backdrop.
sulcus a groove along the length of the internode, sometimes  of a different color from the rest of the cane.
the following recommendations are  generalizations, and do not account for microclimatic differences.
this material is thicker than a credit card and comes on a 300 ft. roll in different widths,24" x 40 mil, 30" x 40 mil, 30" x 60 mil, and 36" x 60 mil.
the culms  are golden with a slightly spiraling green stripe.
most attractive when pruned down to 3" in spring and allowed to shoot and releaf with new foliage.
great for low screen.
canes are fairly unremarkable and are largely hidden by the leaves in the mature plant.
in general, the first year or two after transplanting, you will not see tremendous above-ground growth, as the plant is putting most of its energy into its root system.
it is a vigorous runner with dark green leaves and  tasty shoots.
most are also very cold-hardy.
not recommended: any plants not designated to be cold-hardy enough for  your lowest nighttime winter temperatures.
the species grow about 15' tall, are cold hardy to -5 degrees, and and make good container plants and screens.
it readily forms dense masses of foliage in less light than most bamboos and may be effectively used for screening in shady places.
semk semiarundinaria makinoi graceful low hedge or  containerized plant with varying colors through the seasons.
also many phyllostachys, with bissetii, nuda,  rubromarginata being among the most cold-hardy; pleioblastus, particularly  simonii and simonii 'heterophyllus'; many semiarundinarias and sasas.
a very attractive ground cover with upright foliage, remaining fresh looking throughout the year.
fastuosa means tall and stately, and it lives up to its name.
most commercial potting or nursery mixes are adequate as they are.
phb ph. bambusoides "madake" also known as 'giant japanese timber bamboo',this plant has bright green smooth canes and medium size leaves.
phng ph. nigra 'bory' "leopard bamboo" a large relative of black bamboo, which, instead of turning black, develops large decorative brown/black spots on 3" diameter green culms.
culms used to be imported from china for making split bamboo fishing poles.
phvg ph. viridiglaucescens has powdery lime-colored culms with a white node ring, providing excellent quality straight wood, often used in furniture, and superior shoots for eating.
the cold-hardiness rating generally represents the threshold for root death.
phaq ph. aureosulcata "yellow groove" this plant is a real stand-out with brightly colored green canes and a bold yellow vertical stripe in the sulcus.
regional recommendations we provide these suggestions to help you make your selections; however,  no guarantee of success is implied.
geg gelidocalamus (arun) fangianus a new introduction from west sichuan china, where it is a primary food for the giant panda.
in full sun it makes an attractive 15' tall, dense  screen with large dark green leaves.
lists plants possessing certain qualities, such as variegation, color or unusual culm shapes, and lists plants for specific applications.
bmpg bambusa multiplex 'golden goddess' growth habit similar to 'fernleaf' but smaller, with smaller leaves and light orange canes.
the many dwarf  species, often variegated, make good ground covers, hedges, and container  specimens, which benefit from an annual winter clipping to keep them low,  uniform, and attractive.
also, as a rule of thumb, if the leaves are curling sideways (lengthwise) this means your bamboo is stressed and not getting enough water.
below the 4”inch depth, soil should be lightly moist around the roots at  all times.
sasa a genus of dwarf running bamboos most of which have wide, short leaves.
likes filtered light.
sandy soils and alkaline soils may be improved with the addition of organic materials such as compost, peat, manures, nitrolized sawdust, or bark chips.
shoots in the summer.
cbtum chimonobambusa tumidissinoda "walking stick" a rare chinese bamboo noted for its widened culm nodes, like two closed  cymbals.
as  culms mature, they become a pale, yellow green.
air movement: we have found it very helpful to have some air flow in the area with yor indoor bamboo, fresh air from outdoors, if possible.
by paul whitaker the craft & art of bamboo by carol stangler beautiful asian designs for japanese fences, gates, screens, home and garden accents, with photos and lists of tools and suppliers.
canes are consistently  solid black, even in the young plants.
tel: 707.823.5866 fax: 707.829.8106 nursery visits and email contact info books on bamboobooks on bamboo books on bamboo to order books, click on the title, or click "books on bamboo" in the "product prices" menu.
one of the most  beautiful, graceful and tropical looking bamboos
however, when selecting clumpers and planning the space, one must keep in mind that the root ball of a clumper must be allowed to reach a certain size in order to grow culms of a mature height.
grows 16' tall with 1" diameter culms.
will grow in bright  indirect light to half-day sun.
p. nuda gets its name from its ability  to become deciduous with extreme cold.
new shoots have culm sheaths that are dark brown with light brown spots.
attractive dark green leaves, an inch or so wide by 6-8" long,  grace 15-20' silver/gray culms.
cold hardy to -10 degrees and can grow close to full height even with those temperatures in winter.
sbb sasaella bitchuensis this plant grows up to 4-6'  tall and has leaves which are wide, long and dark green.
one of the most beautiful and colorful chusqueas, with dark blue-green nodes on lime-green to yellow culms.
masses of leaves grow on long, slender, arching branchlets.
gelidocalamus a genus of small to medium sized, running bamboos botanically similar to  indocalamus and chimonobambusa.
height: indoors, bamboos generally grow only a fraction of their maximum height and diameter, so we recommend that you buy a plant that is already as close as possible to the size you ultimately want.
phbr ph. bambusoides 'slender crookstem' this form of  bambusoides often grows with marked zig-zags or s-curves in the lower part of  the culm, which is quite striking on such large canes.
hardy: bamboo was the first plant life to return after the atomic bombings in japan.
culms grow 12-15' tall with a maximum of 1" diameter.
four of the characteristics listed below are also listed with each  species on our price list.
culms grow 12-15' tall with a maximum of  1" diameter.
both forms of the plant are aggressive runners with single branches and wide leaves up to 10" long and 1½" wide.
runners spread wide quickly to  form screens, are less expensive, but sometimes require root barrier.
sefx semiarundinaria fortis sports very small light  green leaves at each node.
olive green, shiny, upright and full foliage from bottom to top when mature.
if you look very closely at the underside of the leaves, you will also  see a very fine white web.
seyk semiarundinaria yashadake 'kimmei' decorative  bamboo with almost translucent golden culms which have a slightly zigzagging  pale green stripe down the groove.
air movement: we have found it very helpful to have some  air flow in the area with yor indoor bamboo, fresh air from outdoors, if  possible.
needs acid soil to  look its best.
does well in a wide range of light conditions.
if you wish to visit the nursery, please call ahead monday through saturday to schedule an appointment at (707) 823-5866.
hardy to  -15 degress.