gooseberries are banned in counties where these pines are  grown for lumber.
oregon champion hybrid from cross of crown bob with houghton.
berries resist sunburn.
each flower bud opens to yield from one to four flowers, depending on cultivar.
gooseberry mildew is a common problem, affecting both european and american types.
american types have weeping  stems that will root wherever they touch the ground and can be invasive.
ribes species are host for white pine blister rust, which causes few  problems for gooseberry, but is lethal for 5-needle pines, including california  natives such as western pine (pinus monticola) and sugar pine (p.  lambertiana).
plants that have been subject to drought may make a new growth flush  after deep irrigation.
irrigation: with their fibrous, shallow roots gooseberries are ideal for drip system.
harvest: average yield from one gooseberry bush is between eight  and ten pounds of fruit.
the american gooseberry is smaller, adapted to more  demanding cultural conditions and more productive, but without much character  and generally inferior for all purposes.
the fruit has a flavor all its own, the best dessert cultivars as luscious as the best apple, strawberry or grape.
prolific production of very small, dark red to purple berries.
the gooseberry sawfly is present in the pacific northwest but has not yet been detected in california.
tip layering is a surer method of propagation, though a  single bush furnishes far fewer layers than cuttings.
new york, macmillan, 1907.
gooseberry plants also have a fairly high requirement for magnesium, so if the soil is very acidic and needs lime, use dolomitic limestone, which supplies magnesium as well as calcium.
plants stressed for water are susceptible to mildew.
related species: currant (ribes rubrum, r. petraeum, r. sativum), black currant (r. nigrum, r. ussuriense),  buffalo currant (r. aureum).
'mountain' is often sold for it by unscrupulous nurserymen.
make the cuttings about a foot long, but do not include tip  growth, dip the base in hormone and pot in ordinary soil.
keep plants turgid, never stressed  for water between irrigations.
a gooseberry may be green, white (gray-green), yellow, or shades of red from pink to purple to almost black.
tolerates bright  sun, was bred for growers at extreme southern limit of gooseberry culture.
between four and eight ounces of actual  nitrogen per square yard strikes a good balance between growth and disease  tolerance.
the stems are thin,  becoming woody, with a large thorn at each axil.
for dessert purposes, however, the fruit must be fully ripe.
keep in part shade  for the first year.
quite productive of outstandingly large,  yellow fruits of fair flavor.
a classic gooseberry concoction is a fool,  made by folding cream into the stewed fruit.
spider mites are common in summer; spray immediately after harvest and  thereafter on a regular schedule.
a classic gooseberry concoction is a fool, made by folding cream into the stewed fruit.
plants collapse  quickly when soil or air temperature exceeds 85° f. soil: gooseberry plants are less finicky about soil acidity than  most other small fruits, and tolerate a wide range of soils, except those that  are waterlogged.
origin: gooseberries are derived mostly from two species: the  european gooseberry (ribes grossularia), native to the caucasus  mountains and north africa; and the american gooseberry (r. hirtellum),  native to northeastern and north-central united states and adjacent parts of  canada.
propagation: the ease with which gooseberries propagate from cuttings depends on the cultivar.
annual  growth is in a single flush in spring.
roe, e.p. success with small fruits.
fruits scattered throughout bush, medium,  round to oval, pale green to white when ripe.
thorns  make harvest tedious, so pruning is done to open up the bush and make picking  easier.
the gooseberry sawfly is present in the pacific northwest but has not  yet been detected in california.
spider mites are common in summer; spray immediately after harvest and thereafter on a regular schedule.
european gooseberry careless origin britain.
the plant is suitable for training as a standard.
gooseberries are banned in counties where these pines are grown for lumber.
culture location: gooseberries like morning sun, afternoon  part-shade and buoyant air circulation.
here is the list of  additional crfg fruit facts.
origin: gooseberries are derived mostly from two species: the european gooseberry (ribes grossularia), native to the caucasus mountains and north africa; and the american gooseberry (r. hirtellum), native to northeastern and north-central united states and adjacent parts of canada.
the buds perk up early in the spring, dotting the stems  with green when most other plants are still tawny.
the fruit, borne singly or in pairs at the axils, is a berry  with many minute seeds at the center.
reading, mass.,  addison-wesley, 1991.
whitesmith origin britain.
they are probably not worth trying in southern california.
plants that have been subject to drought may make a new growth flush after deep irrigation.
in california they are fairly productive in the  coolest parts of the san francisco bay area, the outer coast ranges and coastal  northern california.
the flowers are self-fertile and pollinated by wind  and insects, including bees.
an infestation is usually detected only after the stem wilts and dies.
roots are susceptible to both oak root fungus (armillaria  mellea) and phytophthora.
the plants may be grown as standards or cordons, but this requires a  lot of care and the fruit often sunburns.
deficiency can be avoided with an annual dressing of half an ounce of potassium per square yard.
except at high elevations.
american gooseberry stems are densely bristly, with one or more additional thorns at each axil.
fruits of the european gooseberry may be very large, like a small plum, but are usually 1 inch long, less in width.
if intended for training as standards or cordons, strip all buds off, cutting below the soil line.
cut out affected stems, search for others and  spray.
fruit ripens midseason  with a smooth, yellow skin.
new york, collier, 1920.
bush very dense, requires thinning to permit harvest.
further reading card, f.w. bush fruits.
a  thick mulch of some organic material also helps keep the soil cool.
begins growth very early.
propagation: the ease with which gooseberries propagate from  cuttings depends on the cultivar.
keep the plants watered all season, since they will not  regenerate buds or leaves lost from drought stress.
whinham's industry origin britain.
the european gooseberry is the classic gooseberry of  cookery and and desserts.
the cultivation of berried fruits.
a thick mulch of some organic material also helps keep the soil cool.
between four and eight ounces of actual nitrogen per square yard strikes a good balance between growth and disease tolerance.
fruits of the european gooseberry may be very large, like a small plum, but are  usually 1 inch long, less in width.
pests and diseases: aphids commonly attack young leaves, distorting  them.
borers will spread and generally causes loss of whole planting without quick control.
botrytis and anthracnose can cause rot of leaves and loss of young growth, particularly stems lying on the ground or splashed during irrigation.
the flowers are self-fertile and pollinated by wind and insects, including bees.
telegraph bush short, rather skimpy.
market demand for american gooseberries is static, while  appreciation for the true european berry is growing.
used for cooking in europe; quality is higher in usa.
each flower bud opens to yield from one to four  flowers, depending on cultivar.
benomyl spray before flowering and after harvest should control it.
leaf size and  number are reduced under heat or light stress, and are easily burned by intense  sunlight.
sandy soils are less suitable for gooseberries because they dry out too fast.
where summers are hot, bushes will grow better and produce better fruit in heavier soils, which retain more moisture and stay cooler.
thorns make harvest tedious, so pruning is done to open up the bush and make picking easier.
the clear-winged borer lays its eggs on stems  in april.
botrytis and anthracnose can cause rot of leaves and loss of  young growth, particularly stems lying on the ground or splashed during  irrigation.
bush spreading, tending to few branches.
growers in unsuitable climates, looking for a substitute for  gooseberry, should consider the jostaberry or buffalo currant (ribes aureum ).
fruit size is variable, excellent flavor.
keep plants turgid, never stressed for water between irrigations.
tip layering is a surer method of propagation, though a single bush furnishes far fewer layers than cuttings.
the clear-winged borer lays its eggs on stems in april.
flowers: the inconspicuous flowers, green with pink flushed petals,  open in early spring.
take hardwood cutting in early fall, even before all the leaves have dropped.
the plants commence bearing in 5 years from seed and 2 years from cuttings.
skin color is most intense in full sunlight.
the fruit, borne singly or in pairs at the axils, is a berry with many minute seeds at the center.
keep the plants watered all season, since they will not regenerate buds or leaves lost from drought stress.
the larvae hatch and bore into the central pith down to soil line and emerge to pupate in the fall.
see crfg fruit facts: currants.
they are borne laterally on one-year old wood and on short spurs of older wood.
adaptation: gooseberries grow best in summer humid, cool regions with great winter chilling.
snap off any branches that form along or below the six-inch leg.
with proper attention gooseberries can be grown in containers.
slow to come into bearing.
species: american gooseberry (ribes hirtellum), european gooseberry (r. grossularia).
somewhat tolerant of armillaria.
generally, american cultivars are easier to  root than are european cultivars.
the buds perk up early in the spring, dotting the stems with green when most other plants are still tawny.
american gooseberry are much more sun tolerant.
soil: gooseberry plants are less finicky about soil acidity than most other small fruits, and tolerate a wide range of soils, except those that are waterlogged.
fruits somewhat pear-shaped, deep  yellow, smallish, with few bristles.
stems bristly, spiny.
pruning: a gooseberry bush is usually grown on a permanent short "leg" of about six inches, from which the bush is continually renewed with new shoots arising at or near ground level.
so-called european cultivars are pure species, but virtually all  so-call american cultivars also have european genes.
gooseberries used for culinary purposes such as tarts, etc. are usually picked underripe.
leaf size and number are reduced under heat or light stress, and are easily burned by intense sunlight.
fruits yellow, rather elongated, becoming brown where  sunburned, rather bland.
benomyl spray before flowering and after harvest  should control it.
for dessert purposes, however, the  fruit must be fully ripe.
if the roots are lost, regrowth will wait until the  following spring.
london, crosby  lockwood & son, 1946.
mountain' is more  vigorous, sprawling, fruit brick to deep red.
harvest: average yield from one gooseberry bush is between eight and ten pounds of fruit.
adaptation: gooseberries grow best in summer humid, cool regions  with great winter chilling.
common names: gooseberry (english),  stachelbeere (german), groseille a maquereaux (french), uva spina (italian),  stekbes (flemish).
bush tall, weeping but rarely rooting at tips.
flowers: the inconspicuous flowers, green with pink flushed petals, open in early spring.
so-called european cultivars are pure species, but virtually all so-call american cultivars also have european genes.
roots are susceptible to both oak root fungus (armillaria mellea) and phytophthora.
berries generally drop when overripe.
with proper attention gooseberries can be grown in  containers.
a gooseberry may be green, white  (gray-green), yellow, or shades of red from pink to purple to almost black.
bush slow growing, susceptible to  armillaria.
it is worst in coastal fog, on drought-stressed plants, or  where irrigation is by overhead sprinkling.
seeds require moist stratification, just above freezing, for three to four months.
the ribes reporter, vols.
gooseberries used for culinary purposes such as tarts,  etc. are usually picked underripe.
fertilization: gooseberries have a high requirement for potassium and a moderate need for nitrogen, although excessive amounts of nitrogen promote disease, especially mildew.
its small green worms will hollow out the  berries, leaving an empty husk.
as the european can be grown in all  californian conditions suited for the gooseberry culture, the american is not  recommended.
ribes species are host for white pine blister rust, which causes few problems for gooseberry, but is lethal for 5-needle pines, including california natives such as western pine (pinus monticola) and sugar pine (p. lambertiana).
© copyright 1996, california rare fruit  growers, inc. questions or comments?
they are most productive in full  sunlight but the leaves sunburn easily under california conditions.
bush very tall, fountain shaped, generally rooting at tips.
allow stems to grow for  4-5 years, then selectively remove oldest stems to make room for new  shoots.
american gooseberry glenndale origin usda, glenn dale, md, 1932.
gooseberry plants also have a fairly high requirement for  magnesium, so if the soil is very acidic and needs lime, use dolomitic  limestone, which supplies magnesium as well as calcium.
species: american gooseberry (ribes hirtellum), european  gooseberry (r. grossularia).
hinnonmakis yellow hybrid from finland, somewhat resistant to mildew.
keep in part shade for the first year.
fertilization: gooseberries have a high requirement for potassium  and a moderate need for nitrogen, although excessive amounts of nitrogen  promote disease, especially mildew.
they are borne laterally on one-year old wood and on  short spurs of older wood.
the presence of a few leaves actually  enhances rooting.
ribes missouriense x r.  grossularia.
see index of crfg publications, 1969 - 1989 and annual indexes of fruit  gardener for additional articles on the gooseberry.
where summers are hot, bushes will grow better and produce  better fruit in heavier soils, which retain more moisture and stay cooler.
it is worst in coastal fog, on drought-stressed plants, or where irrigation is by overhead sprinkling.
the larvae hatch and bore into the central pith down to soil line and  emerge to pupate in the fall.
pests and diseases: aphids commonly attack young leaves, distorting them.
an infestation is usually detected only after the  stem wilts and dies.
the leaves are alternate,  single, deeply lobed, and glossy dark green (european types), or pale to  gray-green and sometimes finely pubescent (american types).
if the roots are lost, regrowth will wait until the following spring.
in california they are fairly productive in the coolest parts of the san francisco bay area, the outer coast ranges and coastal northern california.
plants stressed for water  are susceptible to mildew.
irrigation: with their fibrous, shallow roots gooseberries are  ideal for drip system.
the leaves are alternate, single, deeply lobed, and glossy dark green (european types), or pale to gray-green and sometimes finely pubescent (american types).
gooseberry mildew is a common problem, affecting both european and  american types.
the presence of a few leaves actually enhances rooting.
prolific, fruits  small, acid, hard and green when commercially harvested, becoming bland, sweet,  greenish yellow upon maturity.
uncommon fruits worthy of attention.
borers will spread and generally causes loss of whole  planting without quick control.
the plants commence bearing in 5 years from seed and 2 years from  cuttings.
experimentation with  european types is limited under california conditions, and many cultivars have  been introduced in recent years.
origin o. dickinson, salem,  1876.
take hardwood cutting in early fall, even  before all the leaves have dropped.
allow stems to grow for 4-5 years, then selectively remove oldest stems to make room for new shoots.
the symptom of potassium deficiency is scorching of leaf margins.
cut out affected stems, search for others and spray.
the roots are superficial, fine and  easily damaged by frequent cultivation.
deficiency can be avoided with an annual dressing of half an ounce of potassium  per square yard.
the plants may be grown as standards or cordons, but this requires a lot of care and the fruit often sunburns.
the international ribes association.
they can be  grown in the high shade of fruit trees such as persimmon or on the north side  of buildings.
the fruit has a flavor all its own, the best dessert cultivars as  luscious as the best apple, strawberry or grape.
related species: currant (ribes rubrum, r. petraeum, r. sativum), black currant (r. nigrum, r. ussuriense), buffalo currant (r. aureum).
american gooseberry fruits are smaller (to 1/2 inch), perfectly round, all becoming pink to wine-red at maturity.
fair production of round yellow  berries, with many innocuous violet-red bristles, giving an overall red color  to fruit.
description growth habit: gooseberries are deciduous shrubs,  fast growing under optimum conditions to 3 feet tall and 6 feet wide.
the stems are thin, becoming woody, with a large thorn at each axil.
american gooseberry stems are  densely bristly, with one or more additional thorns at each axil.
pruning: a gooseberry bush is usually grown on a permanent short  "leg" of about six inches, from which the bush is continually renewed  with new shoots arising at or near ground level.
only those with proven production are  described.
american gooseberry fruits are smaller  (to 1/2 inch), perfectly round, all becoming pink to wine-red at maturity.
make the cuttings about a foot long, but do not include tip growth, dip the base in hormone and pot in ordinary soil.
its small green worms will hollow out the berries, leaving an empty husk.
seeds  require moist stratification, just above freezing, for three to four months.
generally, american cultivars are easier to root than are european cultivars.
most common of gooseberry cultivars; another cv.
sandy soils  are less suitable for gooseberries because they dry out too fast.
if intended for training  as standards or cordons, strip all buds off, cutting below the soil line.
berries generally drop when  overripe.