and then henning turns up and he can instantly make everything happen so easily.
it didn’t quite work first time round, because all the  water froze solid before the layers of soil could settle.
we found out about working horses and  how they appeared really only quite briefly on the farming scene in between  oxen (used for centuries to pull primarily wooden implements until iron and  steel became cheap in the industrial revolution) and tractors (rapidly over  taking everything since cheap oil and wartime engineering in the 1940s).
i took some photos during  the week, so you can have a look if you haven’t seen them already.
it’s one of henning’s new initiatives.
i don’t really have to do any work, but i have  spent a few hours planting out some trays of rocket, mizuna, corn salad,  purslane and radish seedlings in the greenhouse and polytunnel.
and it’s a really big deal
but it took ages to figure out how to make it work, and then when i was using it i had the feeling that in practice the seeds were coming out somewhat erratically.
it felt like the  farm shop and cafe were at the heart of the enterprise, with everything else  feeding in to the centre.
we learned about the special place of cows; their  all-important digestive system, their dreamy nature, their horns, and lack of  ego and their perfectly balanced manure.
during the week we visited four different farms.
i felt like i was useless, but that i’d like to be good at it.
henning was in the garden all week, and you can see the difference.
i took some photos during the week, so you can have a look if you haven’t seen them already.
today we harvested the very last of our carrots from sunny acres, and the very first of our baby chard and spinach leaves from the greenhouse.
in the classroom sessions (with my hot water bottle) we heard each others  presentations on different farm animals, in varied styles and varied levels of  skill and muddle.
he’s been muckspreading and rotavating and fixing electric fencing and harvesting potatoes and putting beetroot in clamps and making everyone turn up for work on time.
it’s a  small farm, with chickens and turkeys scratching around the farm yard, goats  for the children to stroke, pigs rooting up the leftover potatoes, and a  complicated breeding programme for an apparently impressive little herd of  dairy shorthorn cows.
the  cheese we were making will be a cheddar, so it won’t be ready for eating  for at least three months.
i did say it was an epic week though.
kai says it’s about projecting your ego and using your will.
duchy home farm is prince charles’ 1,900 acre project, managed by david for 25 years (and counting) as a model organic farm with dairy, beef, sheep, arable, 50 acres of vegetables and 1,000 apple trees.
after that i help  anke put some of the cows in to other stalls.
one thing i really noticed was how clearly the personalities and  characters of the owners or farmers shaped the nature and feeling of the farms.
he’s been muckspreading and rotavating and fixing  electric fencing and harvesting potatoes and putting beetroot in clamps and  making everyone turn up for work on time.
on new year’s day we had a big brunch, and i did some tidying and cleaning and sorting in my room, and a big pile of washing, to start everything new and fresh.
most of the cows have got big horns on, and every time they shake  their heads i can’t help feeling that they could do rather a lot of  damage without even trying.
a few days ago i did a little experiment that i originally learned in  primary school.
i brought the jars inside the next day and now they are all lined up on the kitchen table.
the timetable was pretty relaxed, and we did a lot of farm visits and farm walks.
but they have more confidence and personality and curiosity.
it all sounds fairly straight forward, and i pretty much know what i’m doing, but there is also quite a lot of scope for unwanted excitement.
anyway, i had a great weekend learning  about cheese and cows and milk and yoghurt and everything else dairy-related.
so then it felt quite strange to be back here, alone in my own room, with all those people gone, and the talking and ideas already turning to ghosts.
drawing is a wonderful way to  force you to really look at something properly.
that’s the reason why i didn’t write my blog yesterday evening; we got home at about 6:30pm, then had supper and did the washing up and unpacked and saw to the chicks and by then it was somehow 10pm.
it’s not just the railway stations and cycle panniers and hastily scribbled train timetable; racing down the platform as the train pulls in; squinting at the road signs through the rain; fidgeting in my seat scoffing apple buns made the night before; scanning the hills and hedges as they unfold beyond the train window.
eventually they set off at a surprisingly rapid pace and suddenly i was meant to be steering, in control, and wasn’t really and went too far in to the fodder beet, and just about managed to turn round back in to the field and then was already finished and i was shaking slightly.
i felt like i was useless, but  that i’d like to be good at it.
they are self-sufficient in fodder and bedding for the animals, experimenting with working horses, and they like planting trees.
it has been nice to have a break and some extra free time and lots of food over christmas, but i do miss having everyone here
laura has very upright horns, gemma has curling round horns and is brown, marie pepper is fat and a dappled pink sort of colour, marie louise is white, but then so is luna.
again, so they have a bit more space to spread out.
ideally you mix it in to compost and then it’s more  likely to be stabilised and in a form the plants can use.
join 7 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
in between we had some very informal presentations on different farm animals,  looked at some pictures of digestive systems, and played around with some  bones.
→ leave a comment posted in uncategorized tagged aubergines, carrots, cheese, chicks, chicory, cows, milking, seeds, spinach, thoughts of summer, wolf i am nearly a proper farmer this week.
one thing i really noticed was how clearly the personalities and characters of the owners or farmers shaped the nature and feeling of the farms.
the first night was pretty chilly; we woke up with all the grass outside covered in crunchy frost.
one and a half lines i sowed with a special seed sowing machine we’ve got (the brand is a german one called wolf), and the other one and half lines i sowed by hand.
i took some soil samples from various places around the vegetable fields and set up the experiment in the barn extension.
i now step inside their pen  quite a lot; partly because it’s bigger than it was and i now have to  climb in to reach the food, but also because they are big enough that i  don’t have to be scared of standing on them by accident.
→ 1 comment posted in uncategorized tagged baking bread, cows, holiday, horns, new year, planting out, soil sample, straw enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
but  it took ages to figure out how to make it work, and then when i was using it i  had the feeling that in practice the seeds were coming out somewhat  erratically.
most of the cows have got big horns on, and every time they shake their heads i can’t help feeling that they could do rather a lot of damage without even trying.
i took some soil samples from  various places around the vegetable fields and set up the experiment in the  barn extension.
i direct sowed three lines of spring onions in the polytunnel in a bit of an experiment.
i got so immersed in the place  and a different rhythm, surrounded by other friendly apprentices, living so  much more outside, in a world of thought and ideas and heady talking and  farming visions.
it’s red powdery stuff that is about the same consistency as flour, and  we were sprinkling it on the soil because the soil tests showed our phosphorus  levels are low.
the soil  settles out in to layers, so you can see the different proportions of sand,  silt, clay and organic matter in your soil.
we watched kai come alive as he set off behind the horses, them listening intently, him calling and talking, guiding them easily through their work.
apart from learning about cows and pottering around in the garden, i have been baking bread (it makes so much sense with an aga in the kitchen, so i am teaching myself how to do sourdough), making and eating a vat of soup, helping finish off all the mince pies and stollen and vol au vents and such like, and (somewhat alarmingly) buying a new laptop (my old one has died quite conclusively this time i think – it won’t even switch on any more).
on friday i came home and felt a bit lost.
the soil settles out in to layers, so you can see the different proportions of sand, silt, clay and organic matter in your soil.
and then henning turns up and he can instantly make everything happen so  easily.
i like the simplicity of it and the realness.
they squawk and struggle when i pick them up but when i put them down they sit  on my hand, try to roost on my knees and peck at my bootlaces, so they  can’t be too badly traumatised.
in the classroom sessions (with my hot water bottle) we heard each others presentations on different farm animals, in varied styles and varied levels of skill and muddle.
it’s great that all that stuff has been happening, but it also makes  me feel really frustrated and almost helpless.
a few days ago i did a little experiment that i originally learned in primary school.
they don’t milk by hand at plaw hatch but there was at least one cow that needed starting off by hand because otherwise she doesn’t let her milk down.
it was very interesting and i was quite surprised to find out that it involved being up to our elbows in a big vat of warm milk that, after several hours, became a vat of rubbery white curds.
somehow he really makes things happen.
i’m looking forward to  having everyone back and starting the new  year in earnest.
today we  harvested the very last of our carrots from sunny acres, and the very first of  our baby chard and spinach leaves from the greenhouse.
i struggle for weeks and weeks to hold the garden together and keep the people on track
we made cheese on saturday morning.
powered by wordpress.com
somehow he really  makes things happen.
of course i already  knew that, but it really hit me that it’s actually real and i am so happy  to know that i’m going to be outside working on the land instead of  plugged in to a computer.
the machine is meant to make it quick and easy and, i suppose, very regular because the seeds should fall out at a set rate as the wheel turns.
i don’t really have to do any work, but i have spent a few hours planting out some trays of rocket, mizuna, corn salad, purslane and radish seedlings in the greenhouse and polytunnel.
big and strong with huge shaggy hooves and massive muscles and round warm-air-blowing nostrils, and endless patient calm.
i was tremendously grateful to fee for  suggesting that i take a hot water bottle.
it’s more about the journey in my brain; the experience of being away from the farm; learning about archetypes in bones, and about ruminant digestion, discussing the role of the cow in the farm organism, sketching sheep in the rain, exploring another farm and another farmer’s vision, seeing a place for working horses in a world post peak oil, rubbing smoke out of my eyes as i light the stove each evening that will keep us warm through the night.
it’s a small farm, with chickens and turkeys scratching around the farm yard, goats for the children to stroke, pigs rooting up the leftover potatoes, and a complicated breeding programme for an apparently impressive little herd of dairy shorthorn cows.
each of the three of me, caspar and duncan are  now taking it in turns to be the person to organise the work in the garden for  a week.
and i’ll  get sunburnt and it might rain all summer, and the plants will wilt and  i’ll have to go to bed when it’s still daylight, but still, i think  it will be better than being locked up in an office.
fortunately markus is very patient with us when we keep getting them all muddled up, and will helpfully explain, when we ask which one nerys is, that she’s got four legs and a welsh accent.
apart from learning about cows and pottering around in the garden, i have  been baking bread (it makes so much sense with an aga in the kitchen, so i am  teaching myself how to do sourdough), making and eating a vat of soup, helping  finish off all the mince pies and stollen and vol au vents and such like, and  (somewhat alarmingly) buying a new laptop (my old one has died quite  conclusively this time i think – it won’t even switch on any more).
but there was at least one cow that needed starting off by hand because  otherwise she doesn’t let her milk down.
it’s not just the railway stations and cycle panniers and  hastily scribbled train timetable; racing down the platform as the train pulls  in; squinting at the road signs through the rain; fidgeting in my seat scoffing  apple buns made the night before; scanning the hills and hedges as they unfold  beyond the train window.
the chicory isn’t quite as big as it should be yet, but we wanted to make a start on it.
laura has very upright horns, gemma has curling round horns and is  brown, marie pepper is fat and a dappled pink sort of colour, marie louise is  white, but then so is luna.
that’s the  reason why i didn’t write my blog yesterday evening; we got home at about  6:30pm, then had supper and did the washing up and unpacked and saw to the  chicks and by then it was somehow 10pm.
i loved both getting a feel for the animals i was drawing (that rounded muscly-ness of the horses, the paradoxical wooliness and sharp alertness of the sheep), and looking really carefully at, for example, exactly how the horns come out of a cows head, or how the hooves fit on to a horse.
this coming week we slowly start returning to the normal routine, as companions and co-workers and houseparents and employees come back from holidays over the next few days.
i also had the most wonderful thought in the  spring-like weather last week; i was in the polytunnel and suddenly realised  that this summer i won’t be sitting in an office.
then each of us had a go at driving the horses.
we have also been sowing the first of our  tomatoes and aubergines (my aubergine calculation: we have 2.5 beds for  aubergines in the polytunnel; each bed is 15m long, with space for two rows per  bed; the aubergines are at 45cm spacing in the rows; we have two varieties of  aubergine; we’re sowing them initially in seed trays so we can prick them  out later; we sow them at about 50 seeds per tray; in the end we need 90 plants  of each variety, so we sowed three seed trays of black beauty to be on the safe  side, and we’ll do the other variety in a couple of weeks time.)
the first night was pretty chilly; we woke up with  all the grass outside covered in crunchy frost.
i’m enjoying helping on the farm and it’s good to get a feel for how it works.
but i have to find a way to  do it all and still be me.
i missed it straight away coming home.
we had compost toilets, and a woodfired  shower that no one used all week, and a big kitchen which was essentially a  tent with a concrete floor, a big old wood fired oven in the middle, and some  plumbed in sinks round the edges.
i brought the jars  inside the next day and now they are all lined up on the kitchen table.
and sometime last week we harvested the last of our brussel sprouts and the first of our forcing chicory.
it’s red powdery stuff that is about the same consistency as flour, and we were sprinkling it on the soil because the soil tests showed our phosphorus levels are low.
rolls of fleece and  boxes of seeds and new buckets and bamboo poles and thermometers have all been  appearing in the barn extension.
i was very pleasantly surprised to discover that i can still do hand milking, which i learned at monkton wyld when i was 18.
it felt like the farm shop and cafe were at the heart of the enterprise, with everything else feeding in to the centre.
going on a block course, i should know by now, is something of an epic journey.
anyway, i had a great weekend learning about cheese and cows and milk and yoghurt and everything else dairy-related.
for new year i didn’t manage to stay up late but mellanie and johanna kindly woke me up at midnight so i could drink a mug of orange juice with them in a befuddled state without even leaving my bed and then fall straight back asleep.
we’ve been doing a lot of sowing and planting in the past week, which  is partly because of the time of year and partly because there were several  leaf days, which means it’s a good day to sow and plant all the leafy  crops like cabbage (two varieties – derby day and chateaurenard), mizuna,  rocket, corn salad, purslane, spring onions and such like.
we looked at the different implements for the horses (so much more interesting and meaningful than they could possibly have been a year ago), and talked about the benefits of working with horses over tractors (less compaction, wider window to get on the land, less aggressive machines, less pollution, and so on).
my jacket smells of cows, i have straw stuck in all my clothes, and baler twine sprouting out of my pockets.
eventually they set off at a surprisingly rapid pace and suddenly i was meant  to be steering, in control, and wasn’t really and went too far in to the  fodder beet, and just about managed to turn round back in to the field and then  was already finished and i was shaking slightly.
they all  have various distinguishing features, but it is taking us a while to get the  hang of it.
i’m going to try to write a short blog this week because as i’m starting it’s already 8:20pm on monday evening, which means it’s about an hour until my bedtime and in that time i’ve still got to hang up my washing and check on the chicks and make a plan for tomorrow, as well as writing this blog.
and i know i’m still not really doing it good or right.
and i want to learn how, and sometimes i’m scared i’ll never get it.
in the morning all the cows come in to the yard, and some of them are milked and some of them have calves that they feed.
okay, it might also be horribly hot
i think i need to put in clean straw more  often to keep them cleaner, and i’ve also just today extended their house
fortunately markus is very patient with us when we  keep getting them all muddled up, and will helpfully explain, when we ask which  one nerys is, that she’s got four legs and a welsh accent.
so i went to have a look round the long crichel garden instead, and enjoyed  the bike ride and ate a flapjack from the bakery there.
i now step inside their pen quite a lot; partly because it’s bigger than it was and i now have to climb in to reach the food, but also because they are big enough that i don’t have to be scared of standing on them by accident.
we also met the cows and calves, helped out with the  milking, drew pictures of cows, did some cheese tasting, learned about how to  make yoghurt and butter and keffir, and ate lots of delicious food.
and it’s a  really big deal
on new year’s day we had a big brunch, and i did some tidying and  cleaning and sorting in my room, and a big pile of washing, to start everything  new and fresh.
but they have  more confidence and personality and curiosity.
we spent an afternoon doing bone puzzles; piecing together vertebrae, observing patterns, looking at skulls, playing with clay, and thinking about the archetypal threefold viking realms of asgard, midgard and nifelheim.
but it’s okay to just sprinkle it on the soil and rake it in as well, apparently.
i  missed comfy chairs and the aga when i was there, but then coming back i missed  air and space and the immediacy of nature.
it has been nice to have a break and some  extra free time and lots of food over christmas, but i do miss having everyone  here
so then it felt quite  strange to be back here, alone in my own room, with all those people gone, and  the talking and ideas already turning to ghosts.
we had compost toilets, and a woodfired shower that no one used all week, and a big kitchen which was essentially a tent with a concrete floor, a big old wood fired oven in the middle, and some plumbed in sinks round the edges.
on saturday morning i walked round the garden to see what had happened while i’d been away.
it’s great that all that stuff has been happening, but it also makes me feel really frustrated and almost helpless.
they are  self-sufficient in fodder and bedding for the animals, experimenting with  working horses, and they like planting trees.
i guess i won’t ever get it like henning does, because i’m not henning.
i think it is quite a good idea for us all to take turns and understand everything better, but i like it best when duncan’s in charge like normal.
it was great to see the garden operating as part of the  farm.
duchy home farm is prince charles’ 1,900 acre project, managed by  david for 25 years (and counting) as a model organic farm with dairy, beef,  sheep, arable, 50 acres of vegetables and 1,000 apple trees.
on saturday morning i walked  round the garden to see what had happened while i’d been away.
they are three weeks old now.
we walked up the hill to  gables farm with our pencils and sketchpads, and drew pictures of the sheep,  cows, turkeys, horses and pigs we found there.
then i have been doing piles of washing and eating pumpkin pie, and sorted out my photos from the week (have a look at them), and had my first ever official supervision session with claudia, and started typing up my notes from the course and swept and mopped the corridor.
nearly every one is still away on holiday, and there’s no harvesting to do because there’s no one much here to eat anything.
it felt calm, purposeful,  spacious, thriving, visionary and yet deeply rooted, and had a certain magic  for me.
i missed comfy chairs and the aga when i was there, but then coming back i missed air and space and the immediacy of nature.
they all have various distinguishing features, but it is taking us a while to get the hang of it.
so it will be interesting to see how the two techniques compare.
i kind of felt like nothing mega was happening.
the chicory isn’t quite as big as it should be yet, but we  wanted to make a start on it.
you dig up a little bit of soil, put it in a jam jar, add water, shake it up (with a lid on) and then leave it for a few hours.
we have six  of them in four pens, and i have to let the mother cows in to the pens with  their calves, feed the mothers with grain, ‘bed up’ the pens with  extra straw, top up the water and hay as necessary, and then get the mother  cows out of the pens when the calves have finished feeding.
we learned about the special place of cows; their all-important digestive system, their dreamy nature, their horns, and lack of ego and their perfectly balanced manure.
i not only took that hot water bottle to bed with me every night, but also had it stuffed up my jumper during most of the classroom sessions, on my lap as i ate breakfast and supper, and at my feet when my toes got too cold.
rolls of fleece and boxes of seeds and new buckets and bamboo poles and thermometers have all been appearing in the barn extension.
in the garden things are very quiet.
i’m enjoying helping on the farm and it’s good to get a feel  for how it works.
i direct sowed three  lines of spring onions in the polytunnel in a bit of an experiment.
big and strong with huge shaggy  hooves and massive muscles and round warm-air-blowing nostrils, and endless  patient calm.
and i want to learn how, and sometimes  i’m scared i’ll never get it.
i not only took that hot water  bottle to bed with me every night, but also had it stuffed up my jumper during  most of the classroom sessions, on my lap as i ate breakfast and supper, and at  my feet when my toes got too cold.
i like the  simplicity of it and the realness.
i was tremendously grateful to fee for suggesting that i take a hot water bottle.
but then by the end of  the week i realised i’d really learned a lot, and came away with a  significantly expanded understanding of farms and animals and perhaps even of  human evolution and social history and what it means to be alive.
wharf farm is judy and bert and their goats and ducks and dogs and chickens  on a 10 acre smallholding.
i did say it was an epic  week though.
→ 4 comments posted in uncategorized tagged abbey home farm, animals, bike, block course, bones, camping, chickens, compost toilets, cows, digestive systems, domestication, drawing, duchy home farm, farm, frustration, gables farm, goats, horses, observation, pigs, ruminants, ruskin mill, sheep, skeletons, tent, train, watchoak farm, wharf farm, wood stove
for new year i didn’t manage to stay up late but mellanie and johanna  kindly woke me up at midnight so i could drink a mug of orange juice with them  in a befuddled state without even leaving my bed and then fall straight back  asleep.
we  discussed what actually is a domestic animal, the unspecialised and child-like  nature of both humans and our domestic animals, and some highly unusual ideas  about evolution.
on henning’s recommendation i’ve covered them with fleece (even though they are inside) to protect them from the cold.
on  henning’s recommendation i’ve covered them with fleece (even though  they are inside) to protect them from the cold.
it didn’t quite work first time round, because all the water froze solid before the layers of soil could settle.
we have had lots of deliveries in the past week, which has added to the feeling that things are happening and spring is on the way.
it could have been terrible, but actually i  felt really grateful for the opportunity to live outside for a few days; to be  that much closer to nature, and weather, and light and dark.
we brushed them clean and learned how to throw a whole pile of heavy leather straps and buckles over their backs and then sort it out in to harness.
we also met the cows and calves, helped out with the milking, drew pictures of cows, did some cheese tasting, learned about how to make yoghurt and butter and keffir, and ate lots of delicious food.
there was a little  woodburner, and some carpet on the floor.
i like the cows even though they are a bit scary, and i am  slowly learning how to deal with them.
i like the cows even though they are a bit scary, and i am slowly learning how to deal with them.
on the way home i got muddled and for a moment thought i was  going back to chesterfield, or might somehow find myself back in a tent on the  edge of the woods in gloucestershire and call that home.
a selection of sheep books agriculture course biodynamic sowing and planting calendar dark mountain harmony of the creative word hell and high water local food – how to make it happen in your community organic vegetable production principles of biodynamic spray and compost preparations storey’s guide to raising chickens the agriculture course koberwitz the story of my boyhood and youth threefolding woodsmoke, working horses and farm walks posted on october 31,  2010 | 4 comments going on a block course, i should know by now, is something of an epic  journey.
this week i’m kind of in charge of the garden.
we looked at the different implements for  the horses (so much more interesting and meaningful than they could possibly  have been a year ago), and talked about the benefits of working with horses  over tractors (less compaction, wider window to get on the land, less  aggressive machines, less pollution, and so on).
i was also really interested to see how each farm came together as a farm organism – how the number of sheep has to balance the number of cows, how the number of cows dictates the amount of silage you need to produce and store, how the dairy herd interacts with the beef herd, the connection between pigs and waste veg and whey from gardens and cheese making, and so on.
overall, it felt cared for though somewhat haphazard and chaotic, happily non-commercial, enthusiastic and passionate and very organic.
nearly every one is still away on  holiday, and there’s no harvesting to do because there’s no one  much here to eat anything.
it all sounds fairly straight forward, and i pretty much know what  i’m doing, but there is also quite a lot of scope for unwanted  excitement.
after that i help anke put some of the cows in to other stalls.
i can see some fairly subtle differences between the different areas of the garden, but basically we have got lots of sand and silt and it’s all a grey-yellow-brown colour.
i stood still there  behind them, reins in my hands, called out ‘holdfast’ as  instructed, and screwed up my nose as i failed to make any impression on them  whatsoever.
and they were very  different.
they are much more bird-like now; before they were yellow and fluffy, and now they are beak and feathers and beady eyes.
it was busy and driven, big but well integrated, and good quality.
each of the three of me, caspar and duncan are now taking it in turns to be the person to organise the work in the garden for a week.
i also had the most wonderful thought in the spring-like weather last week; i was in the polytunnel and suddenly realised that this summer i won’t be sitting in an office.
wharf farm is judy and bert and their goats and ducks and dogs and chickens on a 10 acre smallholding.
back at home, the chicks are doing fine and really growing up fast.
i was also really interested to see how each farm came together as a farm  organism – how the number of sheep has to balance the number of cows, how  the number of cows dictates the amount of silage you need to produce and store,  how the dairy herd interacts with the beef herd, the connection between pigs  and waste veg and whey from gardens and cheese making, and so on.
we found a huge pile of sheep skins and used them to sleep on.
you dig up a little bit of soil, put it in a jam jar, add  water, shake it up (with a lid on) and then leave it for a few hours.
henning  was in the garden all week, and you can see the difference.
it could have been terrible, but actually i felt really grateful for the opportunity to live outside for a few days; to be that much closer to nature, and weather, and light and dark.
we brushed them clean and learned how to throw a whole pile of  heavy leather straps and buckles over their backs and then sort it out in to  harness.
on wednesday we spent an afternoon with kai’s working horses at  gables farm.
in between all that we drank tea and ate biscuits and toast in extended tea  breaks, walked up and down the steps through the steep woodland and along the  sparkling valley to the mill, ate good lunches in the ruskin mill cafe, and  shared our apprenticeship stories and plans and hopes and frustrations.
it felt calm, purposeful, spacious, thriving, visionary and yet deeply rooted, and had a certain magic for me.
they  are three weeks old now.
i think it is quite a good idea for us all to take turns and understand  everything better, but i like it best when duncan’s in charge like normal.
it was great to see the garden operating as part of the farm.
in contrast the soil from the greenhouse is black and  much more full of humus.
they are not at all so cute
at abbey home farm they have, on 1,700 acres, just about everything you can think of: dairy, beef, sheep, chickens for table birds and chickens for eggs, vegetables, arable, cheese making, farm shop, cafe, fire wood and even a couple of soil association apprentices.
just in the last  few days they have started getting balls of poo stuck on their toes, so  i’ve spent a while sitting in with them and picking balls off their toes.
i guess i won’t ever get it  like henning does, because i’m not henning.
there was a little woodburner, and some carpet on the floor.
just in the last few days they have started getting balls of poo stuck on their toes, so i’ve spent a while sitting in with them and picking balls off their toes.
and i think i’ve had enough of mince pies until next year now.
on wednesday we spent an afternoon with kai’s working horses at gables farm.
in the morning it is quite dark still at six o’clock and the yard is icy and slippery, and i have to carry buckets of water and grain and bales of straw through a herd of curious cows, so you can imagine that it’s not quite so straight forward as it sounds at first… me and anke have cow identifcation lessons every morning and afternoon, as we have to put the right cows in the right pens in the right order.
i think i need to put in clean straw more often to keep them cleaner, and i’ve also just today extended their house again, so they have a bit more space to spread out.
our apprentice weekend at plaw hatch was really good.
after fire lighting and porridge eating, and shivering strip washing in a bowl of warm water, each morning started with drawing.
for  an hour or so every morning and and afternoon this year (that is, for the past  three days) i’ve been working on the farm.
we watched kai come alive as he set off behind the horses, them  listening intently, him calling and talking, guiding them easily through their  work.
my special job is looking after the little calves.
one and a  half lines i sowed with a special seed sowing machine we’ve got (the  brand is a german one called wolf), and the other one and half lines i sowed by  hand.
in contrast the soil from the greenhouse is black and much more full of humus.
we have had lots of deliveries in the past week, which has added to the  feeling that things are happening and spring is on the way.
what a ridiculously long blog that was.
for an hour or so every morning and and afternoon this year (that is, for the past three days) i’ve been working on the farm.
and did some work harvesting and hoeing and planting in the polytunnel because at least i can surely manage to make that good.
and sometime last week  we harvested the last of our brussel sprouts and the first of our forcing  chicory.
we have also been sowing the first of our tomatoes and aubergines (my aubergine calculation: we have 2.5 beds for aubergines in the polytunnel; each bed is 15m long, with space for two rows per bed; the aubergines are at 45cm spacing in the rows; we have two varieties of aubergine; we’re sowing them initially in seed trays so we can prick them out later; we sow them at about 50 seeds per tray; in the end we need 90 plants of each variety, so we sowed three seed trays of black beauty to be on the safe side, and we’ll do the other variety in a couple of weeks time.)
they don’t milk by hand at plaw  hatch
it’s one of  henning’s new initiatives.
on first sight it could have been a junk yard, but  it turned out to be a diverse and integrated smallholding where nothing gets  wasted, the animals are well cared for, judy makes cheese, and the people are  part of the land.
→ leave a comment tagged aubergines, carrots, cheese, chicks, chicory, cows, milking, seeds,  spinach, thoughts of summer, wolf cow identification and frozen soil samples posted on january 3,  2010 | 1 comment i am nearly a proper farmer this week.
of course i already knew that, but it really hit me that it’s actually real and i am so happy to know that i’m going to be outside working on the land instead of plugged in to a computer.
overall, it felt cared for though somewhat haphazard and chaotic, happily  non-commercial, enthusiastic and passionate and very organic.
my jacket smells of cows, i have  straw stuck in all my clothes, and baler twine sprouting out of my pockets.
in a way, it felt very gentle.
i stood still there behind them, reins in my hands, called out ‘holdfast’ as instructed, and screwed up my nose as i failed to make any impression on them whatsoever.
we walked up the hill to gables farm with our pencils and sketchpads, and drew pictures of the sheep, cows, turkeys, horses and pigs we found there.
on the same bed we sprinkled rock phosphate, which was a new experience for me.
i loved both getting a feel for  the animals i was drawing (that rounded muscly-ness of the horses, the  paradoxical wooliness and sharp alertness of the sheep), and looking really  carefully at, for example, exactly how the horns come out of a cows head, or  how the hooves fit on to a horse.
we discussed what actually is a domestic animal, the unspecialised and child-like nature of both humans and our domestic animals, and some highly unusual ideas about evolution.
then i have been doing  piles of washing and eating pumpkin pie, and sorted out my photos from the week  (have a look at them), and had my first ever official supervision session with  claudia, and started typing up my notes from the course and swept and mopped  the corridor.
and did some work harvesting and hoeing and planting in the  polytunnel because at least i can surely manage to make that good.
in the morning it is quite dark still at six  o’clock and the yard is icy and slippery, and i have to carry buckets of  water and grain and bales of straw through a herd of curious cows, so you can  imagine that it’s not quite so straight forward as it sounds at  first… me and anke have cow identifcation lessons every morning and afternoon, as  we have to put the right cows in the right pens in the right order.
they  are much more bird-like now; before they were yellow and fluffy, and now they  are beak and feathers and beady eyes.
but then by the end of the week i realised i’d really learned a lot, and came away with a significantly expanded understanding of farms and animals and perhaps even of human evolution and social history and what it means to be alive.
we all slept in a big old tent, a bit like sardines.
and they were very different.
okay, it might also be horribly hot and i’ll get sunburnt and it might rain all summer, and the plants will wilt and i’ll have to go to bed when it’s still daylight, but still, i think it will be better than being locked up in an office.
it’s more about the journey in my brain; the  experience of being away from the farm; learning about archetypes in bones, and  about ruminant digestion, discussing the role of the cow in the farm organism,  sketching sheep in the rain, exploring another farm and another farmer’s  vision, seeing a place for working horses in a world post peak oil, rubbing  smoke out of my eyes as i light the stove each evening that will keep us warm  through the night.
on first sight it could have been a junk yard, but it turned out to be a diverse and integrated smallholding where nothing gets wasted, the animals are well cared for, judy makes cheese, and the people are part of the land.
the machine is meant to make it quick and easy and, i suppose, very  regular because the seeds should fall out at a set rate as the wheel turns.
we found a huge pile of sheep skins  and used them to sleep on.
we have six of them in four pens, and i have to let the mother cows in to the pens with their calves, feed the mothers with grain, ‘bed up’ the pens with extra straw, top up the water and hay as necessary, and then get the mother cows out of the pens when the calves have finished feeding.
ideally you mix it in to compost and then it’s more likely to be stabilised and in a form the plants can use.
it felt jolly, earthy, homey and underpinned by surprising knowledge.
drawing is a wonderful way to force you to really look at something properly.
in the morning all the cows  come in to the yard, and some of them are milked and some of them have calves  that they feed.
i struggle for weeks and weeks  to hold the garden together and keep the people on track
and plans for all sorts more.
the cheese we were making will be a cheddar, so it won’t be ready for eating for at least three months.
i’m looking forward to having everyone back and starting the new year in earnest.
but it’s okay  to just sprinkle it on the soil and rake it in as well, apparently.
flower and violet; half sisters.
it was very interesting and i was quite  surprised to find out that it involved being up to our elbows in a big vat of  warm milk that, after several hours, became a vat of rubbery white curds.
on the way home i got muddled and for a moment thought i was going back to chesterfield, or might somehow find myself back in a tent on the edge of the woods in gloucestershire and call that home.
this coming week we slowly start returning to the normal routine, as  companions and co-workers and houseparents and employees come back from  holidays over the next few days.
so i went to have a look round the long crichel garden instead, and enjoyed the bike ride and ate a flapjack from the bakery there.
i’ve got to get a new diary though – according to mine the world ends tonight!
it felt jolly, earthy, homey and underpinned by surprising  knowledge.
→ 1 comment tagged baking bread, cows, holiday, horns, new year, planting out, soil  sample, straw search for: hello i'm jessie, and this is my blog about being a gardener at  sturts farm, a camphill community and biodynamic farm in dorset.
we spent an afternoon doing bone puzzles; piecing together  vertebrae, observing patterns, looking at skulls, playing with clay, and  thinking about the archetypal threefold viking realms of asgard, midgard and  nifelheim.
i can  see some fairly subtle differences  between the different areas of the  garden, but basically we have got lots of sand and silt and it’s all a  grey-yellow-brown colour.
our last visit was to watchoak farm at thornbury camphill.
i was very  pleasantly surprised to discover that i can still do hand milking, which i  learned at monkton wyld when i was 18.
→ 4 comments posted in uncategorized tagged abbey home farm, animals, bike, block course, bones, camping,  chickens, compost toilets, cows, digestive systems, domestication, drawing,  duchy home farm, farm, frustration, gables farm, goats, horses, observation,  pigs, ruminants, ruskin mill, sheep, skeletons, tent, train, watchoak farm,  wharf farm, wood stove cheese and seeds posted on february 22, 2010 | leave a comment i’m going to try to write a short blog this week because as  i’m starting it’s already 8:20pm on monday evening, which means  it’s about an hour until my bedtime and in that time i’ve still got  to hang up my washing and check on the chicks and make a plan for tomorrow, as  well as writing this blog.
i’ve got to get a new diary though – according to  mine the world ends tonight!
on the vegetable front there are some important developments.
we’ve been doing a lot of sowing and planting in the past week, which is partly because of the time of year and partly because there were several leaf days, which means it’s a good day to sow and plant all the leafy crops like cabbage (two varieties – derby day and chateaurenard), mizuna, rocket, corn salad, purslane, spring onions and such like.
they squawk and struggle when i pick them up but when i put them down they sit on my hand, try to roost on my knees and peck at my bootlaces, so they can’t be too badly traumatised.
in between all that we drank tea and ate biscuits and toast in extended tea breaks, walked up and down the steps through the steep woodland and along the sparkling valley to the mill, ate good lunches in the ruskin mill cafe, and shared our apprenticeship stories and plans and hopes and frustrations.
the  timetable was pretty relaxed, and we did a lot of farm visits and farm walks.
at abbey home farm they have, on 1,700 acres, just about everything you can  think of: dairy, beef, sheep, chickens for table birds and chickens for eggs,  vegetables, arable, cheese making, farm shop, cafe, fire wood and even a couple  of soil association apprentices.
so, it’s been quite a week.
i got so immersed in the place and a different rhythm, surrounded by other friendly apprentices, living so much more outside, in a world of thought and ideas and heady talking and farming visions.
in between we had some very informal presentations on different farm animals, looked at some pictures of digestive systems, and played around with some bones.
it was busy and driven, big but well integrated, and  good quality.
but after that the weather changed and it was warmer but damper.
but i have to find a way to do it all and still be me.
after fire lighting and porridge eating, and shivering strip washing in a  bowl of warm water, each morning started with drawing.
we found out about working horses and how they appeared really only quite briefly on the farming scene in between oxen (used for centuries to pull primarily wooden implements until iron and steel became cheap in the industrial revolution) and tractors (rapidly over taking everything since cheap oil and wartime engineering in the 1940s).
but after that the weather  changed and it was warmer but damper.