the cherimoya needs cooler temperatures, but atemoyas thrive in the lowland tropics and can take a little more cold than the sugar apple.
the tree is large, attractive, and very frost hardy (to 22º f).
because flowering, fruit development and spring vegetative  growth all occur during some of florida's hottest and driest months (april -  june), irrigation is critical for succeeding with apples.
++ indicates that this is a variety or a species that is found in our arboretum, but not often stocked in our nursery.
we rarely stock this variety since echo staff find the flesh watery tasting.
the fruit is elongated and of good quality.
this low acid, very sweet apple has green skin with a red blush, and flavor similar to the 'gala' apple.
'lula' (a type), a g x wi cross, produces medium (14-24 oz.), pear-shaped fruit with nearly smooth skin.
from these regions, three distinct races have been recognized: west  indian (wi), guatemalan (g) and mexican (m).
brogdon ripens july-sept. 'choquette' (a type), a g x wi cross, is oval-shaped and large (24-40 oz.).
avocadoes demand well-drained soils, as flooding for 24-48 hours can kill them.
'priestly' is another very large fruited cultivar.
monroe's growth habit is upright, rather than spreading and is cold hardy to 26ºf.
fruit is ready for harvest when red blush appears; pick early and let fruit ripen off the tree.
chill units are the number of hours the temperature stays  between 32-55º f. most effective chilling occurs with continuing  temperatures below 45 º f. 'anna' has red skin and is the most widely planted apple cultivar in  florida.
choquette is similar to monroe in fruit size and quality; both are excellent choices for those interested in a very good-tasting, large 'florida pear'.
they remain a small tree, growing to about 15 feet.
the fruit quality is not as good as most of the other varieties we carry, thus it is not a recommended variety.
atemoya annona squamosa x a. cherimola fcfs available.
populations are especially high in late fall and, if possible, they should be controlled to prevent spread to newly emerging spring growth.
this cultivar yields well and is of high eating quality.
acerola see barbados cherry on page 9.
if we do not have it in stock, we can put you on our "waitlist" and call you when we have it available.
the west indian race is the  least hardy (24-28 ºf), and mexican strains are the most hardy (16-24  ºf), but do not always fruit well in florida's humid climate.
much energy from the sun is needed to annually produce  the high numbers of large-seeded and oil-rich fruits.
these races have been crossed to  create innumerable hybrids.
skin is green and dull.
for those looking for a 'california' or mexican type similar to ones found in the grocery store, brogdon is a good choice.
the west indian race is the least hardy (24-28 ºf), and mexican strains are the most hardy (16-24 ºf), but do not always fruit well in florida's humid climate.
remember that avocado trees become huge, easily reaching 40'.
flesh is of very good quality lacking the watery texture often found in other large fruited types.
for those who prefer small california/mexican types as found in grocery stores: for those interested in large fruited types typically grown in florida (a.k.a florida pears): table 2.
14 'beta' july to september, mid season fruit, 1- 1 ½ lb fruits, highly recommended for commercial planting, rounded, densely foliated canopy, consistently high producer.
antidesma see bignay on page 9.
the fruit is small (12-14 oz.) with dark green bumpy skin.
++ 'elly' is very productive like 'geffner' but produces earlier.
bears aug-sept. 'donnie' (a type), a wi type, is cold sensitive.
the annona family contains many fine  tropical fruits.
atemoyas  reach a height of 25-30 ft.
lula has a large seed and is slightly sweet with good flavor.
the low chill varieties listed below require 50 - 150 chill hours for strong flowering and vigorous growth.
if  we do not have it in stock, we can put you on our "waitlist" and call  you when we have it available.
this variety has historical importance  in being one of the first atemoya cultivars released by the usda in the early  1900's.
the annona family contains many fine tropical fruits.
variety may jun jul aug sep oct nov dec jan feb mar apr
populations are especially high in late fall and, if possible, they should be  controlled to prevent spread to newly emerging spring growth.
it is the earliest commercial variety (may - june) and bears large fruit (greater than 1 lb).
david fairchild selected this high quality cultivar but much remains unknown about this cultivar.
the fruit is 12-18 inches long, club-shaped, often weighing between 16-24 oz.
our 'geffner' froze almost  to the ground, but grew back and produced about a dozen large fruit the second  summer.
phytophthera and flooding are a deadly combination for avocado.
skin is glossy, smooth, and slightly leathery.
++ 'custer's red' originated as a seedling on pine island in southwest florida.
they can be pruned to control  size (immediately after fruit is fully harvested) but their habit is to become  large.
this variety is prolific, consistently bearing large fruits that mature in the fall.
as trees age, a march pruning (while the tree is still without leaves) is recommended for further shaping and size control.
fruit is medium sized (14-24 oz.), green, and has thick, rough skin.
they are extremely mild, to the point of being bland.
its strength is its cold hardiness and excellent, rich flavor.
the ancestry determines cold hardiness, skin  texture, and time of fruiting, among other things.
the second priority is choosing a location with full sun.
'brogdon' (a and b type), a m ´ wi cross, is productive and hardy to 22º f.
formerly grown commercially, it is a good producer, but very susceptible to scab (a disease which only harms the appearance).
production does not seem as high as elly or gefner.
echo staff preferred bradley over geffner in a 2001 taste  test.
bears small smooth black-skinned fruits (8-14 oz.), with high quality green flesh.
low chill apples are productive in florida, but susceptible to  anthracnose, fire blight, and root fungus.
apples prefer slightly acidic and well-drained soils and perform best in full sun.
choosing an appropriate planting location for avocadoes is extremely important.
apples require cross-pollination with two different cultivars to ensure decent production.
the cherimoya needs cooler temperatures, but  atemoyas thrive in the lowland tropics and can take a little more cold than the  sugar apple.
low chill apples bear farther south than  echo in florida, and may be a unique addition to your yard.
the tree is very productive and cold hardy; dr. price's tree in north ft. myers, fl survived the terrible freeze in 1989 with little damage while a nearby avocado was killed.
see barbados cherry on page 9.
it is probably the best for our area and the one we recommend most to customers.
the third consideration is space.
low chill apples bear farther south than echo in florida, and may be a unique addition to your yard.
'miguel' 1 ½ - 2 lbs fruits, fruits august to september, is large, productive and of excellent eating quality.
bears nov-dec. ++'kampong' (b type) is a guatemalan race with high cold tolerance, but low yields.
the tree has an irregular, low spreading habit, and  is largely deciduous losing most of its leaves in the winter.
the trees produce as early as august and as late as january.
growing conditions and fruit features for three  avocado races.
it has a creamy pear texture softer than 'geffner's' firmer texture.
the trees will need a complete fertilizer with micronutrients and may need to be defoliated by hand in the fall.
the fruit of 'anna' resembles that of 'red delicious' more than other low-chill apple cultivars.
attractive white  apple blossoms will appear during feb-march and give way to fruit (smaller than  standard apples) in june.
avocados are native to central america and mexico.
flowering should occur on new growth.
it is very cold hardy and was not damaged in 24º f temperatures.
its main appeal is its very large fruits.
however the fruit is not of excellent quality.
it is the most cold hardy variety we commonly stock in our nursery.
wurtz has rich flavor and is of high quality.
the fruit is of good quality, but does have a  slightly grainy texture.
the  fruit is elongated and of good quality.
they also typically exchange their leaves each year in the spring, resulting in a bare appearance until new growth appears.
to conserve moisture,  mulching is highly recommended as long as mulch is not in contact with the  trunk.
this cultivar is better suited to drier climates- a wet summer can cause the fruit to rot.
avocados are of two flower types, a and b, depending on when they are shedding pollen.
because flowering, fruit development and spring vegetative growth all occur during some of florida's hottest and driest months (april - june), irrigation is critical for succeeding with apples.
the  flowers are self-fertile; however, hand-pollination will enhance the fruit set.
much energy from the sun is needed to annually produce the high numbers of large-seeded and oil-rich fruits.
++ 'rosando perez' bears later than most other varieties of atemoya.
production does not seem  as high as elly or gefner.
see table 1for a comparison of other features of these three avocado races.
'monroe' is a g x wi cross grown commercially in the miami/homestead area.
characteristic mexican guatemalan west indian cold tolerance most tolerant moderately tolerant vulnerable salt tolerant vulnerable fairly tolerant tolerant skin thin and waxy thick and rough thin and shiny oil content high average low flowering to harvest 7-9 months 10-12 months 5-7 months shape elongated round elongated size small variable variable to large gaillard and godefroy, "avocado", tropical agriculturalist series, pg.
fruit is small (8-16 oz.), pear-shaped with an excellent rich, nutty taste.
'geffner' is a productive, well known variety.
echo staff preferred bradley over geffner in a 2001 taste test.
avocados are of two flower types, a and b, depending on when they are  shedding pollen.
aside from phytophthera, the only other significant problem we encounter  with avocados is the avocado lace bug (acysta perseae) that feeds on  the underside of leaves, causing brown blotches and premature leaf drop.
the tree has an irregular, low spreading habit, and is largely deciduous losing most of its leaves in the winter.
annona squamosa x a. cherimola fcfs available.
the smooth flesh is of an excellent quality with 13% oil and a mild nutty flavor.
it bears a green fruit (14-24 oz) from dec 1 to march 31.
fruiting seasons in southwest florida for avocado varieties, as described in the text.
be sure to remove all the seeds before  putting the pulp into a blender because the seeds contain the toxic substance  rotenone.
freeze damage in established trees occurs around 26º f. season is nov-jan. with heavy bearing in alternate years.
the low chill  varieties listed below require 50 - 150 chill hours for strong flowering and  vigorous growth.
the pulp is white,  fairly soft, sweet, and delicious.
monroe bears nov-dec. ++ 'russell' (a type) a west indies avocado, is fairly frost sensitive.
this cultivar was discovered in the bahamas and is crisp  and juicy with excellent flavor.
prune trees lightly in late winter to promote new growth.
the fruit of 'anna' resembles that of 'red delicious' more than other  low-chill apple cultivars.
this variety has historical importance in being one of the first atemoya cultivars released by the usda in the early 1900's.
it bears oct 15 to nov 30.
there are different theories about avocado  pollination, but recent research seems to demonstrate that self-pollination is  the norm, meaning that only one tree is necessary for fruit production.
the round fruit is medium to large (bigger than lula), with dull, dark green skin and contains a large seed.
this cultivar was discovered in the bahamas and is crisp and juicy with excellent flavor.++ 'tropic sweet' is a newly patented variety from the university of florida.
there are different theories about avocado pollination, but recent research seems to demonstrate that self-pollination is the norm, meaning that only one tree is necessary for fruit production.
'expedition' (unknown flower type) likely has guatemalan heritage.
the first priority is a location that is high and has no history of saturated or flooded soils.
the choquette has an open, spreading growth habit.
the atemoya is no exception.
the pulp is white, fairly soft, sweet, and delicious.
a-type flowers shed pollen in the afternoon, b-type  flowers shed pollen in the morning.
low chill apples are productive in florida, but susceptible to anthracnose, fire blight, and root fungus.
both the mature fruit and new foliage have an attractive red blush.
malus domestica fcfs available.
'dorsett golden' looks like 'golden delicious' with golden skin and sometimes a red blush.
a-type flowers shed pollen in the afternoon, b-type flowers shed pollen in the morning.
its popularity is due to its early season.
this variety is not recommended for florida.
phytophthera and flooding  are a deadly combination for avocado.
the second priority is choosing a  location with full sun.
it is probably the best for  our area and the one we recommend most to customers.
'dorsett golden' looks like 'golden delicious' with golden skin and  sometimes a red blush.
choosing an appropriate planting location for avocadoes is extremely  important.
however, bradley is reported to not fruit very well without hand-pollination.
remember that  avocado trees become huge, easily reaching 40'.
pruning is  recommended on young trees to develop a desirable shape and to control  excessively long shoots.
'bradley' is less firm than geffner, but the flavor and texture are of exceptional quality.
production is good, but flavor is very mild and inferior to many other varieties.
the tree is slightly dwarfed for an avocado, is cold hardy, and bears moderately but consistently in nov-dec. ++'winter mexican' (b type) is a mexican x west indies cross.
the sugar apple ( a. squamosa) and the cherimoya (a. cherimola) were  crossed to produce the atemoya.
prune trees lightly in late winter to  promote new growth.
however, bradley is reported to not fruit very well without  hand-pollination.
avocadoes demand well-drained soils, as flooding  for 24-48 hours can kill them.
the trees will need a complete fertilizer with micronutrients and may need  to be defoliated by hand in the fall.
inquire about availability.
atemoyas reach a height of 25-30 ft.
from these regions, three distinct races have been recognized: west indian (wi), guatemalan (g) and mexican (m).
avocados are native to central america and  mexico.
chill units are the number of hours the temperature stays between 32-55º f. most effective chilling occurs with continuing temperatures below 45 º f. 'anna' has red skin and is the most widely planted apple cultivar in florida.
fruit trees -- a fruiting trees, shrubs and herbaceous plants -- a ++ indicates that this is a variety or a species that is found in our  arboretum, but not often stocked in our nursery.
prune long terminal branches back to 5 or 6 nodes and remove the last two leaves closest to the pruning cut.
this superb dessert fruit is one  of dr. price's (echo's director), favorite tropical fruits.
apples prefer slightly acidic and well-drained soils and perform best in full  sun.
they are usually eaten fresh, but also make a great milk shake and tasty sherbet.
they are especially susceptible to phytophthera, a common soil-borne fungus that causes root rot in avocado, papaya, citrus, and other susceptible plants.
freeze damage in established trees occurs around 26º f. the tree is tall, upright, and in sw florida bears sep-oct. ++ 'wurtz' (unknown flower type) is of guatemalan race and was discovered in california in 1935.
prune long terminal branches back to 5 or 6 nodes and remove the last two  leaves closest to the pruning cut.
they can be pruned to control size (immediately after fruit is fully harvested) but their habit is to become large.
we  have several trees planted in 1996 growing in our arboretum .
our 'geffner' froze almost to the ground, but grew back and produced about a dozen large fruit the second summer.
drawbacks include a large seed and paper thin skin which makes fruit difficult to peel.
they are usually eaten fresh, but also make  a great milk shake and tasty sherbet.
and oval with dark green, rough skin.
avocado persea americana, persea nubigena fcfs available.
bears productively oct-dec.
attractive white apple blossoms will appear during feb-march and give way to fruit (smaller than standard apples) in june.
++ 'fuerte' (b type) is a m´ g cross commercially grown in many regions of the world.
it has smooth, glossy, green skin, and a small seed.
lula is hardy to central florida most years, freezing at about 25º f. bears nov-jan. ++'marcus pumpkin' has very high cold tolerance, a moderate yield and a huge fruit - the fruits can weigh over 3 lbs.
we have several trees planted in 1996 growing in our arboretum .
'bradley' is less firm than geffner, but the flavor and texture are of  exceptional quality.
russell bears july-aug. ++ 'tonnage' (b type) belongs to the guatemalan race.
the first priority is a location that is high and has no history of  saturated or flooded soils.
the flowers are self-fertile; however, hand-pollination will enhance the fruit set.
the fruit is of good quality, but does have a slightly grainy texture.
as trees age, a march pruning (while the tree is still  without leaves) is recommended for further shaping and size control.
they also typically  exchange their leaves each year in the spring, resulting in a bare appearance  until new growth appears.
to conserve moisture, mulching is highly recommended as long as mulch is not in contact with the trunk.
be sure to remove all the seeds before putting the pulp into a blender because the seeds contain the toxic substance rotenone.
persea americana, persea nubigena fcfs available.
these races have been crossed to create innumerable hybrids.
the flavor is very mild and is often described as watery.
bears oct-nov. 'day' (a type) is a g x wi cross.
it has good fruit production without hand-pollination and can be seen in our arboretum.
fruit is small pear-shaped, with a large seed and rough green skin similar to california avocados.
++ 'tropic sweet' is a newly patented  variety from the university of florida.
pruning is recommended on young trees to develop a desirable shape and to control excessively long shoots.
growing conditions and fruit features for three avocado races.
see bignay on page 9.
originally from israel, this large apple can be eaten green similar to 'granny smith,' or can be allowed to ripen to desired sweetness.
the fruit has fairly thin skin and black seeds.
the sugar apple ( a. squamosa) and the cherimoya (a. cherimola) were crossed to produce the atemoya.
it has a  creamy pear texture softer than 'geffner's' firmer texture.
a june pruning will result in additional flowering and later fruit development.
this superb dessert fruit is one of dr. price's (echo's director), favorite tropical fruits.
the ancestry determines cold hardiness, skin texture, and time of fruiting, among other things.
it has good fruit production without hand-pollination and can be seen  in our arboretum.
fruit is small (12-16 oz.)
they are especially susceptible to phytophthera, a common soil-borne fungus that causes root rot in avocado,  papaya, citrus, and other susceptible plants.
aside from phytophthera, the only other significant problem we encounter with avocados is the avocado lace bug (acysta perseae) that feeds on the underside of leaves, causing brown blotches and premature leaf drop.
expedition bears nov-jan., but the fruit can hang on the tree through february.
this low acid, very sweet apple has  green skin with a red blush, and flavor similar to the 'gala' apple.
apples require cross-pollination  with two different cultivars to ensure decent production.
the fruit is medium-sized (14-24 oz.), oval, and has a mild flavor.
originally from israel, this large apple can be  eaten green similar to 'granny smith,' or can be allowed to ripen to desired  sweetness.
apple, subtropical malus domestica fcfs available.