hostas demonstrating full sun tolerance potential (suggestions  taken from the american hosta society and home gardeners’ recommendations) yellow hosta: august moon, gold regal, golden sculpture rising sun,  squash casserole, sum and substance, sun power yellow variegated hosta: gold standard, inniswood, regal splendor,  sundance fragrant hosta: h. plantaginea, aphrodite, fragrant bouquet, fried  green tomatoes', guacamole, honeybells, invincible', royal standard, summer  fragrance, so sweet, sugar & cream
hostas for full sun or partial shade.
a part of the new york times company.
a quick rule of thumb hostas with yellow leaves or fragrant  flowers can stand more sun than hostas with green, blue or white leaves.
the shade tolerant varieties seem to do best in an exposure of  morning sun and afternoon shade
- about.com - home & garden - gardening gardening search free gardening newsletter!
- bamboo - selected varieties for growing in home gardens - suncalc sunlight calculator for container gardening - find out how much sun... - grow vegetables in the shade - ten vegetables
similarly, fragrant hostas, those in the species h. plantaginea, need exposure to sun to develop their flowers.
in full sun, the chlorophyll  levels can increase and cause the leaves to pick up a green cast and look less  variegated.
but  shade might not be their ideal growing condition.
the only real gage for how sun tolerant a plant is, is how it is performing.
this is because the  blue color is actually a waxy coating on the leaves.
let your hosta tell you when it’s had too much sun you can  follow the rules and choose the recommend plants and still not have success.
white variegated hosta: h. undulata albomarginata, francee,  minuteman, patriot green hosta: invincible, pearl lake more than usual sun tolerance, but not full sun: blue hosta: 'blue angel', 'elegans', 'halcyon', 'krossa regal'.
it is not recommended that any hosta be in full sun all the time, but many hostas are more vigorous and display their most vibrant colors if given at least some sun exposure.
so only morning sun is recommended for white variegated hostas and  the thinner the leaves, the less sun.
hostas with yellow leaves or fragrant flowers can stand more sun than hostas with green, blue or white leaves.
there are two clear signs that tell you your hosta is getting too much sun: let your hosta tell you when it’s had too much sun - browning on the tips or outside edges of leaves - dull color or faded spots on leaves if your hosta plants aren’t doing as well as you would like, don’t be afraid to move them.
special consideration: white hostas another problem with white variegated hostas is that the leaves are white because they have minimal amounts of chlorophyll.
there are two clear signs that tell you your hosta is getting too much sun: browning on the tips or outside edges of leaves dull color or faded spots on leaves if your hosta plants aren’t doing as well as you would like,  don’t be afraid to move them.
they will look brown and dry, like the  leaves in the photo to the right.
no hosta is going to thrive in deep shade.
but shade might not be their ideal growing condition.
the leaves themselves are a shade of green.
it could also expose the leaves to  burning.
spraying the leaves with a pesticide or fertilizer can also cause the  waxy coating to melt.
unfortunately, only trial and error can tell you which hostas with white variegation can tolerate full sun without burning.
similarly, fragrant hostas, those in the species h. plantaginea, need  exposure to sun to develop their flowers.
the thicker the leaves, the more tolerant they will be of full sun.
hosta plant with scortched leaves from too much sun marie iannotti more  images (2) hostas are shade plants, right?
spraying the leaves with a pesticide or fertilizer can also cause the waxy coating to melt.
hostas are strong plants ad can withstand digging and replanting.
keep in mind, the heat experienced in a full sun location can vary from  area to area and even during different times of the day.
a quick rule of thumb
in general, yellow hostas need to be planted in a sunny location to keep  their yellow color vibrant.
they will look brown and dry, like the leaves in the photo to the right.
foliage plants purple foliage plants for the garden and landscape fall color - garden shrubs & vines with colorful fall foliage, flowers  & fruits shade gardening and shade plants shade gardening - planning for color and interest with shade garden plants top roses for shade gardens perennial gardening easy care, low maintenance perennial plants related articles garden design: what does full sun, partial shade, etc.. really mean? bamboo - selected varieties for growing in home gardens suncalc sunlight calculator for container gardening - find out how much  sun... grow vegetables in the shade - ten vegetables
h. plantaginea is one of the most  heat tolerant hosta species.
without at least a couple of hours of full sun, the  yellow color will fade to green, or worse, look like a green leaf that is  yellowing.
this is because the blue color is actually a waxy coating on the leaves.
so if your site is extremely hot or dry, you will need to keep any hostas sitting in full sun well watered.
they all need some sunlight to  photosynthesize.
you can grow without full sun marie iannotti sign up for my newsletter headlines
you can grow without full sun marie iannotti gardening guide - sign up for my newsletter explore gardening must reads most popular - starting seeds indoors - how to get started in the garden - small garden design ecourse - herb gardening ecourse - readers' choice awards
the waxy coating gives them a blue tint.
white variegated hostas with thin leaves, like 'white christmas',  should be confined to partial shade to maintain their best appearance.
special consideration: white hostas unfortunately, only trial  and error can tell you which hostas with white variegation can tolerate full  sun without burning.
full sun in the morning hours will not be as intense as full sun at noon.
(suggestions taken from the american hosta society and home gardeners’ recommendations) hostas demonstrating full sun tolerance potential - yellow hosta: august moon, gold regal, golden sculpture rising sun, squash casserole, sum and substance, sun power - yellow variegated hosta: gold standard, inniswood, regal splendor, sundance - fragrant hosta: h. plantaginea, aphrodite, fragrant bouquet, fried green tomatoes', guacamole, honeybells, invincible', royal standard, summer fragrance, so sweet, sugar & cream - white variegated hosta: h. undulata albomarginata, francee, minuteman, patriot - green hosta: invincible, pearl lake more than usual sun tolerance, but not full sun: - blue hosta: 'blue angel', 'elegans', 'halcyon', 'krossa regal'.
in full, hot sun, this waxy coating melts and exposes the green leaf underneath, changing the color of your plant from blue to green.
so if your site is extremely hot or dry, you will need to keep any hostas  sitting in full sun well watered.
another problem with white variegated hostas is that the leaves are white  because they have minimal amounts of chlorophyll.
you can follow the rules and choose the recommend plants and still not have success.
keep in mind, the heat experienced in a full sun location can vary from area to area and even during different times of the day.
hostas are usually termed 'shade-tolerant' plants, meaning they will grow in shade or partial shade.
hostas for full sun or partial shade.>
while yellow and  fragrant hostas need some sun exposure, they do not like to bake or fry in the  sun.
hostas are strong plants ad can withstand  digging and replanting.
they all need some sunlight to photosynthesize.
it could also expose the leaves to burning.
in full sun, the chlorophyll levels can increase and cause the leaves to pick up a green cast and look less variegated.
h. plantaginea is one of the most heat tolerant hosta species.
blue hostas require the most protection from the sun.
so only morning sun is recommended for white variegated hostas and the thinner the leaves, the less sun.
in general, yellow hostas need to be planted in a sunny location to keep their yellow color vibrant.
without at least a couple of hours of full sun, the yellow color will fade to green, or worse, look like a green leaf that is yellowing.
there are, of course, always exceptions and you may know of a hosta that is basking and thriving in full sun, but that is not rule.
while yellow and fragrant hostas need some sun exposure, they do not like to bake or fry in the sun.
see more about: - pruning roses - tomato growing tips - growing plants from seed - strawberries - when to start seed by category - hosta - foliage plants - perennial plants - garden design - choosing plants - getting started gardening - choosing plants - garden design - flower gardening - gardening pests & problems - vegetables, fruits & more - small space & urban gardening - container gardening - warm climate gardening - trees, shrubs & vines - houseplants - gardening with kids - garden crafts & decorating - garden pictures & ideas gardening - about.com - home & garden - gardening - flower gardening - perennials - which hostas can grow in the sun?
it is not recommended that any hosta be in full sun all the time, but many  hostas are more vigorous and display their most vibrant colors if given at  least some sun exposure.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
in full, hot sun,  this waxy coating melts and exposes the green leaf underneath, changing the  color of your plant from blue to green.
too much sun exposure will result in burned leaves, starting from the edges inward.
foliage plants - purple foliage plants for the garden and landscape - fall color - garden shrubs & vines with colorful fall foliage, flowers & fruits shade gardening and shade plants - shade gardening - planning for color and interest with shade garden plants - top roses for shade gardens perennial gardening related articles - easy care, low maintenance perennial plants - hosta plants - garden design: what does full sun, partial shade, etc.. really mean?
the shade tolerant varieties seem to do best in an exposure of morning sun and afternoon shade
by marie iannotti, about.com guide see more about: - hosta - foliage plants - perennial plants - garden design - choosing plants hosta plant with scortched leaves from too much sun marie iannotti
hostas are usually termed  'shade-tolerant' plants, meaning they will grow in shade or partial shade.
more images (2) hostas are shade plants, right?
full sun in the  morning hours will not be as intense as full sun at noon.
too much sun exposure will result in burned  leaves, starting from the edges inward.
the thicker the leaves, the more tolerant they will be of  full sun.
the leaves themselves are  a shade of green.
hostas for full sun: yellow and fragrant hostas.
hostas for partial shade: green, blue and white
some hostas need a period of full sun to look and perform their best.
there are, of course, always exceptions and you may know of a hosta that is  basking and thriving in full sun, but that is not rule.
white variegated hostas with thin leaves, like 'white christmas', should be confined to partial shade to maintain their best appearance.
- most popular - latest articles - rss - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
sign up - gardening - vegetables & fruits - flowers - pests & problems discuss in my forum which hostas can grow in the sun?