valerian takes about 2 to 3 weeks to work.
read more natural sleep aids - what are the best natural sleep aids natural remedies for menopause symptoms - what natural remedies for me... natural sleep aids - what are the best natural sleep aids how to get a good night's sleep - how to sleep better sleep and health - improve sleep and health and get fewer colds sign up now for free about.com health newsletters  alternative medicine   health newsletter  healthy monday  arthritis  bipolar sign up
lavender as sleep a remedy the soothing aroma of english lavender  flowers has long been used as a folk remedy to help people fall asleep.
it shouldn't be taken with alcohol, many  medications such as sedatives, before or after surgery or by people with liver  disease.
and although studies in labs have been  encouraging, clinical trials are inconclusive.
try adding 6 drops of lavender oil to a bath--the drop in body temp that occurs after a warm bath also helps with sleep.
move on to your feet, calves, knees, thighs, abdomen,  buttocks, chest, hands, upper arms, shoulders, neck, head, mouth, jaw, eyes,  face & cheeks.
on the other hand, if you find you're waking  up too early in the morning, you may need more afternoon light.
chronic insomnia can also be a symptoms of another condition, such as depression, heart disease, sleep apnea, lung disease, hot flashes, or diabetes, another reason why it's important to be assessed.
and although studies in labs have been encouraging, clinical trials are inconclusive.
a part of the new york times company.
we comply with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
allow that relaxed feeling to push out any  tension that's left.
transcript:natural remedies for better sleephi, i'm cathy wong, your guide to alternative medicine on about.com.
or, put a couple of  drops of lavender oil on a handkerchief and tuck it under your pillow.
before you use a sleep remedyif you're having trouble falling asleep, the first step is to consult your doctor.
it shouldn't be used for more than 3 months at a time.
before you use a sleep remedy
light therapy as a natural sleep remedy
read more related articles sign up now for free about.com health newsletters alternative medicine health newsletter healthy monday arthritis bipolar - natural sleep aids - what are the best natural sleep aids - natural remedies for menopause symptoms - what natural remedies for me... - natural sleep aids - what are the best natural sleep aids - how to get a good night's sleep - how to sleep better - sleep and health - improve sleep and health and get fewer colds sign up see more newsletters alternative medicine - about.com - health - alternative medicine also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - nutrition database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
studies suggest  it may shorten the time to fall asleep & help you get back to sleep if  you've woken up during the night.
although rare, valerian may cause headache, palpitations, and dizziness.
try taking a  walk in the late afternoon.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
light exposure plays a key role in telling the body when to go to sleep and when to wake up.
talk with him/her about any remedies before you try it.
so if you're not sleeping as well as you could be, let's look at some natural remedies that may help.
natural sleep remediesgetting a good night's sleep is just as important to our health as diet & exercise.
talk with him/her about any remedies  before you try it.
just be sure to use sunscreen to protect your skin from getting damaged by the sun's ultraviolet rays.
it's been found to lengthen total sleep time and improve sleep quality.
- about.com - health - alternative medicine alternative medicine search video:natural remedies for better sleep with cathy wong can't get a good night's sleep?
light therapy as a natural sleep remedyif you have trouble falling asleep, you may need more light early in the morn.
the good thing about lavender is that it begins to work quickly.
if you're having trouble falling asleep,  the first step is to consult your doctor.
progressive muscle relaxation as a sleep remedyprogressive muscle relaxation is one of the most promising natural sleep remedies.
and speaking of pillows, if hot flashes are keeping you up, many people find  this cooling foam pillow insert, called a chillow, helps to absorb excess body  heat throughout the night.
some people find it helpful to physically clench each set of  muscles for 4 to 10 seconds as they inhale and then allow those muscles to go  limp as they exhale.
natural sleep remedies getting a good night's sleep is just as  important to our health as diet & exercise.
to learn more about alternative medicine, please visit us on the web at altmedicine.about.com.
just be sure to use sunscreen to protect your skin  from getting damaged by the sun's ultraviolet rays.
focus on any tension in them.
back to video learn how to feel beautiful all day long.
to learn more about alternative medicine, please visit us  on the web at altmedicine.about.com.
so if you're not sleeping as  well as you could be, let's look at some natural remedies that may help.
now exhale & let all  the tension quickly leave your toes.
although rare, valerian may cause headache,  palpitations, and dizziness.
it's typically taken 1 hour before bed.
but it doesn't work for everyone.
and speaking of pillows, if hot flashes are keeping you up, many people find this cooling foam pillow insert, called a chillow, helps to absorb excess body heat throughout the night.
music as a sleep remedysoft, slow music is another remedy that can help to improve sleep without med.
some people find it helpful to physically clench each set of muscles for 4 to 10 seconds as they inhale and then allow those muscles to go limp as they exhale.
unlike many other sleep meds, valerian is not believed to be addictive or to cause grogginess in the morn.
transcript:natural remedies for better sleep hi, i'm cathy wong, your  guide to alternative medicine on about.com.
valerian takes about 2 to 3  weeks to work.
now exhale & let all the tension quickly leave your toes.
poor sleep can drain our  energy, dampen our mood, and add to our stress.
thanks for watching.
inhale deeply & sense  the weight of your toes.
it's been found to improve sleep quality,  decrease nightly awakenings, lengthen sleep time and increase satisfaction with  sleep.
light exposure plays a key  role in telling the body when to go to sleep and when to wake up.
unlike many other sleep  meds, valerian is not believed to be addictive or to cause grogginess in the  morn.
studies suggest it may shorten the time to fall asleep & help you get back to sleep if you've woken up during the night.
valerian as a natural sleep remedyvalerian is a herb that has been used as a natural sleep aid in europe for decades.
inhale deeply & sense the weight of your toes.
over time, it can also increase  the risk of obesity, diabetes, and heart disease.
lavender appears to work better for women, possibly because women tend to have a more acute sense of smell.
back to video beauty day & night learn how to feel beautiful all day long.
best part is, it's easy to learn.
it's been found to improve sleep quality, decrease nightly awakenings, lengthen sleep time and increase satisfaction with sleep.
research is beginning to confirm lavender's sedative properties.
try adding 6 drops of lavender oil to a bath--the drop in body  temp that occurs after a warm bath also helps with sleep.
lavender as sleep a remedythe soothing aroma of english lavender flowers has long been used as a folk remedy to help people fall asleep.
try taking a walk in the late afternoon.
it's  typically taken 1 hour before bed.
music as a sleep remedy soft, slow music is another remedy that can  help to improve sleep without med.
progressive muscle relaxation as a sleep remedy progressive muscle  relaxation is one of the most promising natural sleep remedies.
here's how to do it: lie down.
move on to your feet, calves, knees, thighs, abdomen, buttocks, chest, hands, upper arms, shoulders, neck, head, mouth, jaw, eyes, face & cheeks.
it's been  found to lengthen total sleep time and improve sleep quality.
there are many effective natural remedies  for sleep trouble that do not involve counting sheep.
learn what these sleep  remedies are and how to use them.
on the other hand, if you find you're waking up too early in the morning, you may need more afternoon light.
there are many effective natural remedies for sleep trouble that do not involve counting sheep.
or, put a couple of drops of lavender oil on a handkerchief and tuck it under your pillow.
so try taking a walk first thing in the morning.
over time, it can also increase the risk of obesity, diabetes, and heart disease.
it shouldn't be taken with alcohol, many medications such as sedatives, before or after surgery or by people with liver disease.
valerian as a natural sleep remedy valerian is a herb that has been  used as a natural sleep aid in europe for decades.
poor sleep can drain our energy, dampen our mood, and add to our stress.
chronic insomnia can also be a symptoms of another  condition, such as depression, heart disease, sleep apnea, lung disease, hot  flashes, or diabetes, another reason why it's important to be assessed.
the good thing about lavender is that it begins to  work quickly.
allow that relaxed feeling to push out any tension that's left.
video:natural remedies for better sleep with cathy wong can't get a good night's sleep?
if you have trouble falling  asleep, you may need more light early in the morn.
lavender appears  to work better for women, possibly because women tend to have a more acute  sense of smell.
so try taking  a walk first thing in the morning.
learn what these sleep remedies are and how to use them.