also grows well in wet or swampy soil.
evergreen to semi-evergreen foliage seeds are good source of food for birds in fall vigorous grower homeowner growing and maintenance tips plant in full sun to part shade.
benefits: plant in full sun to part shade.
plants flower heavily in mid-spring then continue sporadically through summer.
the cone-like fruits contain bright red seeds and are an important source of food for birds in the fall.
grows best in acidic soil with  consistent soil moisture.
the  foliage is shiny green on top with silver on the lower side.
foliage is evergreen to semi-evergreen, depending on where you live.
foliage is  evergreen to semi-evergreen, depending on where you live.
plant in an area protected from harsh winter wind in usda zone 5.
the cone-like fruits  contain bright red seeds and are an important source of food for birds in the  fall.
grows best in acidic soil with consistent soil moisture.
plants  flower heavily in mid-spring then continue sporadically through summer.
the foliage is shiny green on top with silver on the lower side.
magnolia virginiana 'moon glow' 'moon glow' sweetbay magnolia 'moon glow' is a vigorous grower with a distinctly upright growth habit and lemon-scented, creamy white flowers bloom well after the last frost.
" characteristics & attributes
height 30-35 feet spread 30-35 feet native range swamps, low woods and savannas, mostly along the coast; from eastern massachusetts and new york to florida and eastern texas.
benefits: waxy, white fragrant flowers for many weeks
native trivia magnolia seed is surrounded by a bright red covering that is high in fat, which provides migrating birds with a source of energy usda hardiness zone 5-10 "this plants leaves make for great cover while it's berries are a food source for my birds friends.
magnolia virginiana 'moon glow' 'moon glow' sweetbay magnolia 'moon glow' is a vigorous grower with a distinctly upright growth habit and  lemon-scented, creamy white flowers bloom well after the last frost.
prefers moist, rich, organic soils, but does quite well in heavy clay soil.