so when the temperature abruptly dipped by monday night and into tuesday morning, farmers were in their fields and orchards beforemiguel cintora, a worker at the peters orchards outside of york springs, walks up rows of blooming peach trees on monday afternoon.
(the evening sun shane  dunlap) march is not the time to see tiny green buds forming on a blueberry plant  or asparagus tips sticking their heads above ground.
(the evening sun shane dunlap)
so if apples that typically mature in september and october are a month  ahead in the growing cycle, they might not get the cold nights they need for  good color.
march is not the time to see tiny green buds forming on a blueberry plant or asparagus tips sticking their heads above ground.
so when the temperature abruptly dipped by monday night and into tuesday  morning, farmers were in their fields and orchards before miguel cintora,  a worker at the peters orchards outside of york springs, walks up rows of  blooming peach trees on monday afternoon.
apricot and peach trees in area orchards are in full bloom, along  with a variety of other fruit crops, and local farmers are hoping recent low  temperatures won t cause damage to the vulnerable fruit.
tuesday night was expected to be milder with temperatures in the mid-30s and wednesday's high temperatures were predicted to be in the 70s, said meteorologist craig evanego of the national weather service in state college.
for example, baugher said farmers of most apple varieties could  expect a 10 percent kill at 28 degrees and a 90 percent kill at 24 degrees.
most of the nights this week are expected to stay above freezing in temperature.
it's still early to tell what, if any, damage there was, though some  farmers believed there could be damage to fruits like plums, apricots, peaches,  sweet cherries and nectarines, which are further along in the growth process  and are more susceptible to damage.
sunrise, checking the situation and hoping there wouldn't be too much damage  to their vulnerable fruit.
"how do you sell a red delicious apple the bradford pear trees  are in full bloom in front of holy trinity lutheran church in york springs.
temperatures reached a low of about 26 degrees in york county, and adams county fruit farmers reported lows of between 26 to 29 degrees around sunrise on tuesday.
the further the temperature dips below freezing, the higher percentage of buds killed.
(the evening sun  shane dunlap)
"they'll tolerate only a certain amount of cold temperature, freezing  temperature.
"(frost) is a possibility thursday night," he added.
most of the nights this week are expected to stay above freezing in  temperature.
"you hope and you pray that things are going to be in our favor."
"when the blooms open up and the petals open up and are out there in  the open, that's the most susceptible time," said ed mcdannell, who along  with his wife operates mcdannell's fruit farm and market in biglerville.
so if apples that typically mature in september and october are a month ahead in the growing cycle, they might not get the cold nights they need for good color.
copyright 2012 evening sun.
for example, baugher said farmers of most apple varieties could expect a 10 percent kill at 28 degrees and a 90 percent kill at 24 degrees.
take the apple crop - more than warm temperatures in the spring and summer, it takes cold nights in the fall to put color on apples.
the further the temperature dips below freezing, the higher percentage of  buds killed.
"when the blooms open up and the petals open up and are out there in the open, that's the most susceptible time," said ed mcdannell, who along with his wife operates mcdannell's fruit farm and market in biglerville.
it's not the time for sweet cherries, peaches, apples and nectarines to be in bloom.
adams county teen found incompetent to stand trial were those ufos over gettysburg tuesday morning?
"we have farmed here since 1955," said kay hollabaugh, a spokeswoman for the hollabaugh brothers' fruit farm and market in biglerville.
local farmers say the budding trees and flowers popping up gave an early  indication that fruit trees would also bloom early this year.
doctors, family discuss hanover quads gettysburg athletic director defends reputation at lengthy public...
"but there's not a whole lot we can do," mcdannell said.
" but growth and bloom started about three to four weeks early at most local fruit farms when march came in like a lamb and when the warm days turned into warm weeks.
by heather  faulhefer the evening suneveningsun.com posted:   03/27/2012  05:42:33 pm edt fernando rodriguez, a worker at the peters orchards,  trims early blooming peach trees on monday afternoon at the orchard outside of  york springs.
after weeks of warm weather, fruit  trees are blooming about three to four weeks early and are more susceptible to  damage when temperatures dip below freezing.
rather than the threat of frost, "it's the temperature we're the most concerned about," said tara baugher, a tree fruit educator in the adams county office of the penn state extension.
"they'll tolerate only a certain amount of cold temperature, freezing temperature."
it's still early to tell what, if any, damage there was, though some farmers believed there could be damage to fruits like plums, apricots, peaches, sweet cherries and nectarines, which are further along in the growth process and are more susceptible to damage.
tuesday night was expected to be milder with temperatures in the  mid-30s and wednesday's high temperatures were predicted to be in the 70s, said  meteorologist craig evanego of the national weather service in state college.
temperatures reached a low of about 26 degrees in york county, and adams  county fruit farmers reported lows of between 26 to 29 degrees around sunrise  on tuesday.
most people probably aren't aware of the role temperature plays throughout  the entire growing cycle, hollabaugh said.
local farmers say the budding trees and flowers popping up gave an early indication that fruit trees would also bloom early this year.
"how do you sell a red delicious applethe bradford pear trees are in full bloom in front of holy trinity lutheran church in york springs.
local farmers said they would continue to check on forecasts and temperatures.
local fruit farmers are hoping for a bit more normalcy than march has  shown so far, and that the predicted colder weather will "put the brakes  on things," as hollabaugh said, without causing too much damage.
cold temperatures bring questions at local fruit farms adams  orchard owners worry about damage to trees already in bloom.
red cross: four displaced in arendtsville
thursday night's low would be around freezing, evanego said.
"we have farmed here since 1955," said kay hollabaugh, a  spokeswoman for the hollabaugh brothers' fruit farm and market in biglerville.
print   email  font resize return to top • frequently-asked questions about our facebook  commenting system loading... updated: march 27, 2012 10:00:18 pm edt miniature golf season coming in gettysburg public record for 3/28 gettysburg athletic director defends reputation at lengthy public hearing littlestown man loved fishing with family harlem wizards erase south western chalk talk most viewed (from the last 12 hours)
it's not the time for sweet cherries, peaches, apples and nectarines to be  in bloom.
rather than the threat of frost, "it's the temperature we're the most  concerned about," said tara baugher, a tree fruit educator in the adams  county office of the penn state extension.
local fruit farmers are hoping for a bit more normalcy than march has shown so far, and that the predicted colder weather will "put the brakes on things," as hollabaugh said, without causing too much damage.
take the apple crop - more than warm  temperatures in the spring and summer, it takes cold nights in the fall to put  color on apples.
local farmers said they would continue to check on forecasts and  temperatures.
most people probably aren't aware of the role temperature plays throughout the entire growing cycle, hollabaugh said.
"no one remembers apple blossoms in march.
fire homes   jobs   rentals
"it's borderline," baugher said of the recent cold snap.
after weeks of warm weather, fruit trees are blooming about three to four weeks early and are more susceptible to damage when temperatures dip below freezing.
" but growth and bloom started about three to four weeks early at most local  fruit farms when march came in like a lamb and when the warm days turned into  warm weeks.